---

title: Telehealth wireless communication hub device and service platform system
abstract: A display circuit includes a first pulse width modulated (PWM) signal line coupled to a first switch, a second PWM signal line coupled to a second switch and the signal line, a transistor coupled to the second signal line between the first signal line and the second switch, a third switch coupled to a third PWM signal line, a fourth switch coupled to a fourth PWM signal line, a fifth switch coupled to a fifth PWM signal line, a light emitting diode (LED) including a red element coupled between the first and third switches, a green element coupled between the first and fourth switches, and a blue element coupled between the first and fifth switches, and an LED including a red element coupled between the second and third switches, a green element coupled between the second and fourth switches, and a blue element coupled between the second and fifth switches.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09035568&OS=09035568&RS=09035568
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09035568
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 566 939 entitled Telehealth Wireless M2M Communication Hub And Service Platform System filed Dec. 5 2011. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 349 938 entitled Telehealth Wireless M2M Communication Hub And Service Platform System filed Jan. 13 2012. The entire contents of both applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to computer networks and more particularly to a wireless communication hub for coupling medical devices to remote medical service and support providers by way of an intermediate server.

There is an ever growing population of electronic medical devices many of them configured for home use. While the capabilities of such medical devices are significant little integration of such medical institutions and medical systems have been accomplished. One of the challenges preventing such integration is the most electronic medical devices have been developed without regard to communication interfaces. Thus no standard communication protocols or technologies have been implemented that could serve as an integrating backbone.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

As used herein the term device refers to any electronic device several examples of which are mentioned or described herein. In a preferred embodiment a device includes a communication port enabling the device to be coupled to another computing device or a network.

As used herein the terms computer personal computer and computing device refer to any programmable computer system that is known or that will be developed in the future. In a preferred embodiment a computer will be coupled to a network such as described herein. A computer system may be configured with software instructions to perform the processes described herein.

As used herein the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Various aspects will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional components modules etc. and or may not include all of the components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. Also it is to be understood and appreciated that a number of components and modules may be combined into integrated circuits or chipsets. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Electronic medical and fitness devices have been developed by a large number of manufacturers who have focused on the medical aspects of their products and have only recently focused on the communication capabilities of the products and user experience associated with using the products. As a result there has been little if any cooperation on standards communication protocols and technologies. Thus the universe of electronic medical and fitness equipment lacks any kind of coordination or standards that would facilitate connecting such devices to the facilities and services that could use the data.

The various embodiments described herein provide devices systems and methods that enable the implementation of wireless health solutions that may reliably capture and deliver data to any portal or database from any wireless device worldwide while ensuring that the data will be stored safely. The various embodiments provide a communication system that includes a wireless gateway capable of collecting healthcare data from any of a variety of electronic medical and fitness devices e.g. such as in the home setting and sending this data over a wireless communication network e.g. cellular network back to a centralized server. The various embodiments provide a platform that is an end to end technology agnostic cloud based service that interconnects medical and fitness devices so that the information may be easily accessible by any user device and or the user s healthcare providers and caregivers.

The various embodiments include a wireless communication hub device referred to herein interchangeably as a wireless M2M communication hub virtual personal hub VPH communication hub device wireless communication hub device 2Net hub and or hub which includes a processor and communication transceivers configured to provide a communication link between electronic medical and fitness equipment which may be in a user s home office or medical fitness facility and an external server which can receive and process medical and or fitness data. In various embodiments a wireless communication hub device may communicate data to and from a remote service platform server such that networking of personal medical devices with telemedicine systems and databases may be greatly simplified. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be a hardware and or software sub component of a mobile user device such as a smart phone PDA or a medical device.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured to support multi hub electronic medical and fitness device Roaming in which an electronic medical and fitness device that is paired with one wireless communication hub can be used with another wireless communication hub device within or outside a designated primary location upon the electronic medical and fitness device coming within communication range of the other wireless communication hub. In an embodiment the specific electronic medical and fitness device operation with the wireless communication hub device may be subject to re authentication with the new wireless communication hub device. In an embodiment a Service All type wireless communication hub device may allow any electronic medical and fitness device that attempts to connect to the wireless communication hub device to operate as long as a device type authentication occurs. In an embodiment tiered license levels may be granted for ad hoc electronic medical and fitness device to wireless communication hub device pairing and operation e.g. akin to a 2net Hub Hotspot . For example the wireless communication hub device may be paired with specific electronic medical and fitness devices e.g. glucometer blood pressure monitor weight scale etc. with which the wireless communication hub device communicates referred to herein as hub to device associations . The electronic medical and fitness device may be transported to a second location e.g. a friend s house that also has a wireless communication hub device that can pick up traffic from the electronic medical and fitness device and communicate the information to a server i.e. the communication system may be configured such that data from an electronic medical and fitness device may be sent to a back end server e.g. a service platform server regardless of the wireless communication hub device in communication with the electronic medical and fitness device . In an embodiment communications from a back end server e.g. service platform server may need to be conveyed to the electronic medical and fitness device and the back end server may record the establishment of any hub to device associations. In this manner the back end server e.g. service platform server may keep track of all the wireless communication hub devices to which an electronic medical and fitness device roams. In an embodiment the tracked associations between electronic medical and fitness devices and wireless communications hub devices may be used by the back end server e.g. service platform server to deliver data to the electronic medical and fitness device. As examples a service platform server may deliver data to the last wireless communication hub device associated with the electronic medical and fitness device in a list to all wireless communication hub devices associated with an electronic medical and fitness device on a list and or sequentially to each wireless communication hub device in a list until the wireless communication hub device to which the electronic medical and fitness device is currently connected is located.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured to temporarily save electronic medical and fitness device data in persistent storage before uploading it at scheduled times to a back end server. A data store module DSM resident on the wireless communication hub device may organize this stored data in a systematic way store it persistently in a file system and perform appropriate file housekeeping operations to manage the stored electronic medical and fitness device data.

Various embodiments may support business to business B2B transmission and storage processes using dual databases. In a simple B2B transmission model the storing of data may be merely to assist in the forwarding of the data to the appropriate partner. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device and service platform server may serve as pipelines to transfer data. In an embodiment in which the communication system operates according to a B2B Transmission Analytics model the wireless communication hub device and or service platform server may provide analytics to electronic medical and fitness device manufacturers and or other partners and may store some or all of the data collected on behalf of an electronic medical and fitness device manufacturer and or other partner without the electronic medical and fitness device manufacturer and or other partner having a relationship with the consumer.

In the various embodiments the service platform server may transmit data for pipeline functions and store some or all of the data for the purpose of performing analytics on identifiable data. In an embodiment there may be no direct relationship with the consumer. In an embodiment in which the service platform server operator may receive data storage rights for protected health information PHI data e.g. by contract with a business partner the protected health information may be stored in a secure facility as per contract and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA . In an embodiment in which the service platform server operator receives data storage rights for de identified data the original PHI data may be stored in one database and may be one way hashed out and stored in another database in de identified form. In an embodiment the data may be stored in the dual databases such that data continuity is maintained. In an embodiment the data may be stored in the database and backed up for an indefinite period. The data may be housed in a secure PCI environment data center.

In an embodiment data controls may be implemented based on data rights. In an embodiment security policies and procedures may implement physical technical and administrative safeguards. In an embodiment data may be encrypted e.g. via AES 128 and secured end to end e.g. from the wireless communication hub to a service platform server and to a customer s server s . In another embodiment the system may implement a de identifying data approach in which a chunk of data is received and de identified e.g. according to the HIPAA standard . In an embodiment the system may be configured such that new data is not added to the de identified data but rather the de identification process is re run on a larger data set.

In the various embodiments the wireless communication hub device and or service platform server may select communication partners using a series of white and black lists. As an example the wireless communication hub device may connect with medical devices listed on a white list of allowed devices and avoid connecting with devices listed on a black list of prohibited devices.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device and an electronic medical and training device may be pre paired to enable communication between the wireless communication hub device and the electronic medical and fitness device out of the box and or immediately upon discovery. For example the wireless communication hub device and electronic medical and fitness device may support an ability to be pre paired in some fashion such as through proximity discovery or remote association.

In an embodiment a wireless communication hub device may include a scheduling manager that paces the operations of the wireless communication hub device data collection and upload processes. In an embodiment the scheduling manager may handle schedule processing for electronic medical and fitness device interaction and uploading to the service platform server. The scheduling manager may provide schedule ticking for interacting with electronic medical and fitness devices in accordance with a radio schedule blueprint. The scheduling manager may provide schedule ticking for uploading data collected from the electronic medical and fitness devices to a service platform in accordance with an upload schedule blueprint. The scheduling manager may notify the service platform server regarding priority conflicts on the schedule blueprint for example as soon as the scheduling manager identifies a conflict. In an embodiment the scheduling manager may interact with a radio manager by notifying the radio manger to start interacting with electronic medical and fitness devices. In an embodiment the scheduling manager may interact with the data collection manager DCM by notifying the DCM of a need to upload data collected from a given electronic medical and fitness device.

In an embodiment the scheduling manager may include two scheduler algorithm instances that process a schedule blueprint generated by a service platform for both data collection and uploading. In an embodiment after set up each schedule algorithm instance may provide callbacks at times calculated from the blueprint to request data listen for connections upload collected data from an electronic medical and fitness device in the schedule algorithm referred to as a resource and or report that one or more given electronic medical and fitness devices in the schedule algorithm referred to as a group was were not serviced due to priority and or radio conflicts. In an embodiment the scheduling of upload events and the filtering of data may involve the wireless communication hub device acting as a store and forward device based on a schedule which may be maintained by the service platform server.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may dynamically be provided installable electronic medical and fitness device drivers. As an example the wireless communication hub device may connect to the service platform server to receive electronic medical and fitness device drivers for the electronic medical and fitness devices to which the wireless communication hub device may be attached. In an embodiment the electronic medical and fitness device drivers may be selected based on configuration data maintained at the wireless communication hub device and may not be based on data on the electronic medical and fitness device or specifically requested by the electronic medical and fitness device.

In an embodiment in order to enable discovery and communication between an electronic medical and fitness device and wireless communication hub device an electronic medical and fitness device may be associated with one or more wireless communication hub devices and vice versa. In an embodiment all associations of a wireless communication hub device and electronic medical and fitness devices may be limited to a single customer. In the various embodiments the service platform SP may support different wireless communication hub device and electronic medical and fitness device associations including a single electronic medical and fitness device explicitly associated with a single wireless communication hub device multiple electronic medical and fitness devices explicitly associated with a single wireless communication hub device a specified range of electronic medical and fitness devices associated with one or more wireless communication hub devices a single electronic medical and fitness communication device associated explicitly with more than one wireless communication hub device etc. In an embodiment in which two or more wireless communication hub devices are in communication with one or more electronic medical and fitness devices communication between the wireless communication hub devices and or electronic medical and fitness devices may be load balanced. In an embodiment the load balancing of communications may be accomplished in response to one or more messages received from the service platform server. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be enabled to establish a communication link to an electronic medical and fitness device associated with a different wireless communication hub and communicate data from the another electronic medical and fitness device to the service platform server.

In an embodiment in support of dynamic discovery of electronic medical and fitness devices by wireless communication hub devices the service platform server may maintain real time information about the last one or few wireless communication hub devices with which the service platform server communicated. This maintenance of connection information may be achieved using registration and de registration of electronic medical and fitness device information sent from the wireless communication hub device to the service platform server. The service platform server may receive analyze and process registration messages e.g. per xml schema from each wireless communication hub device and inform each wireless communication hub device when registration was successful or failed. Additionally the service platform server may update the registration information and perform necessary registration related procedures e.g. update new configuration . In the event an electronic medical and fitness device is registering with a new wireless communication hub device the service platform server may perform necessary de registration procedures for a wireless communication hub device the electronic medical and fitness device was previously connected too e.g. configuration update .

In an embodiment a single high intensity color e.g. blue white or red light panel may be included in the wireless communication hub device to inform a user of information and provide various indications. Such a light panel may be software controllable through the wireless communication hub device as described in more detail below with reference to . For example the wireless communication hub device may be controlled by software executing on the wireless communication hub device and or remotely through the service platform server to provide a steady state ON mode a flashing mode combinations of steady ON and periodic flashing high intensity brightness low intensity brightness various colors e.g. blue to indicate one thing and red to indicate another and combinations of any of these conditions or displays. When in a high intensity brightness mode the indicator may be clearly visible to a user from across a room to indicate status or to provide reminders or signals to the user e.g. pill dosage not taken reminder service etc. . In an embodiment two 3 color low intensity light emitting diodes LEDs may be included in the wireless communication hub device to provide users with various types of information such as about the status of the device. As examples the LEDs may serve as an indication that it is time to reorder pills an indication that it is time to take pills an indication of a primary alert and or secondary alert an indication of an error or fault in the wireless communication hub device service platform server or other devices and or information exchange between the wireless communication hub device service platform server and or other devices and or an indication of a motion detection status when motion sensors and or personal emergency response systems PERS may be communicating with the wireless communication hub device. In an embodiment two symbols may be included on the front of the wireless communication hub device that light up in different colors to communicate information. In a further embodiment a bars symbol may be included to show the status of a cellular network signal received by the wireless communication hub device.

Various embodiments support sharing of data in a compliant fashion between electronic medical and fitness devices connected to network established via a wireless communication hub device and between networks established via multiple wireless communication hub devices. Various embodiments may support Continua enabled electronic medical and fitness devices and enable sharing of data for the Continua enabled electronic medical and fitness devices. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be enabled to communicate via any wireless wide area network WWAN available anywhere in the world.

Various embodiments may provide tiered Quality of Service QoS and prioritization at multiple levels e.g. per electronic medical and fitness device per customer per electronic medical and fitness device type per application on the electronic medical and fitness device etc. . Various embodiments may support the implementation of service level requirements at multiple levels such as electronic medical and fitness device customer application etc. .

In an embodiment the service platform may include a data warehouse analytics hub that enables the collection of multiple and diverse data sets on the service platform that may be data resource pools. Such data resource pools may include for example online analytical processing OLAP third party analytics processing reaching into service platform data sets for a fee hybrid analytics processing service algorithms around the data set including for intelligent devices e.g. Xprize tri corder etc. project results thru 2net AR long term storage eons facilities for data for Customers Partners convergence point for wireless e.g. Wi Fi WWAN BSA etc. and wireless healthcare e.g. biometrics data combination with genomics data combination with biotech data and combinations thereof.

The service platform server may be configured to provide a variety of data and communication services related to wireless communication hub devices the peripheral devices that may be connected to them and data that may be obtained from such peripheral devices. One service provided by the service platform server may support user authenticated discovery and communication between the peripherals connected to the wireless communication hub device and remote computers accessing the peripherals enabling users to setup accounts that provide access to the peripherals coupled to one or more wireless communication hub devices registered to them i.e. associated with their account . This service may employ a custom protocol to communicate with particular peripheral devices connected to a wireless communication hub device . The services may also handle normal interfacing and device management issues such as allowing wireless communication hub device to enter an idle mode to minimize over the air OTA usage charges and waking up an idle wireless communication hub device when needed. The wireless communication hub device may register connected peripheral devices and with the service platform server making the peripheral devices and available to remote computer s . The services enabling access to the remote peripheral devices and may be facilitated for any type of computer capable of hosting the software necessary to access the service platform server regardless of whether that computer has the native ability to host locally connected peripheral devices and . Thus accessing computers may include mobile device e.g. phones smart phones etc. with applications capable of accessing the data from the service platform server .

The services may also include machine to machine M2M applications where the remotely accessing computer supports no direct human interaction. An example is storage of private user email data from a service provider on a remotely connected data storage device owned and managed by the user. Another service may be the setup and configuration of the wireless communication hub device including support for the addition and removal of connected peripherals and connectivity by remote computers. Another service may be user based authentication using mechanisms that can be used to associate an authenticated user and computer with the wireless communication hub device and its connected peripherals.

In an embodiment data transmitted between the wireless communication hub device the service platform server and computers may be encrypted to further enhance the privacy of the transmitted data. In a further embodiment intelligence in the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server may enhance the efficiency of wireless data transmission facilitating an appearance of persistence in the connection to the peripherals while minimizing wireless cellular network overhead. In this manner the service platform server may host the latest data or status from peripheral devices and for access by computers enabling the appearance that the peripheral devices and are continuously connected to a computer accessing the peripherals via the service platform server without the need to maintain a constant communication link between the peripheral device and wireless communication hub device and service platform server . Depending upon the nature of the peripheral device or data provided by the peripheral device or status states of peripheral device and or current circumstances establishment of an active communication link to transmit updated data from the peripheral device or may be accomplished on an as needed basis. By configuring the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server with intelligence a wide variety of peripheral applications may be supported while minimizing communication costs.

Third party servers may communicate with the service platform server via the Internet to receive data from or communicate data to peripheral devices and connected to the wireless communication hub device .

While illustrates a single wireless communication hub device interfacing with multiple devices other embodiments may be implemented in which a single wireless communication hub device interfaces with a single device. Also as discussed in more detail below a number of wireless communication hub devices may also inter communicate with each some or all of the wireless communication hub devices interfacing with multiple devices thereby forming a many to many hub device communication network.

For example when a medical device such as a blood pressure monitor thermometer or weight scale is in the vicinity of the wireless communication hub device the data received from that device e.g. blood pressure readings wait etc. may be sent to databases within the Internet cloud. Additionally the system may enable caregivers and medical facilities to send a command or diagnostic message to a medical or fitness device within the patient s home in which case such commands can be routed via the Internet to the service platform server which can then transmit them via the established wireless communication link to the wireless communication hub device which can then communicate them to the intended medical or fitness device.

As illustrated in the service platform server may include memory and maintain its own database for storing or buffering data received from various medical and fitness devices. The service platform server may also perform some analytics on the received data such as comparing data to alarm settings to determine whether any urgent actions or alarms should be communicated to the patient or to healthcare providers. The service platform server may also be configured with provisioning and device management software data plan agreement management software cellular operator connectivity interface functionality cellular billing functionality and customer support services. The references to 3G cellular wireless networks herein are for example purposes only. In some embodiments lower cost 2G components and networks may be utilized. However in order to remain compatible with cellular wireless networks as cellular providers transition their systems to higher capability LTE 3G and 4G networks embodiments may implement LTE 3G and or 4G radio technology and communication protocols.

The wireless communication hub device system may include two core elements the wireless communication hub device and a service platform server 2net Service Platform in the figures . The wireless communication hub device may be sold to consumers and may be attached by USB FireWire or wireless communication links to wireless electronic medical and fitness devices . The service platform server is coupled to the Internet and provides a variety of service platform services such as secure access to the wireless communication hub device to enable receiving data from and connecting to the electronic medical and fitness devices .

The wireless communication hub device may connect to electronic medical and fitness devices via direct i.e. wired connections such as a USB connection a FireWire connection or local area network connection e.g. Ethernet as well as wireless communication links such as Bluetooth Wi Fi ZigBee and ANT wireless communication networks.

The service platform server may be configured to provide a variety of data and communication services related to wireless communication hub devices the electronic medical and fitness devices that may be connected to them and data that may be obtained from such electronic medical and fitness devices . Such services are generally referred to herein as service platform services. One service platform service provided by the service platform server may support user authenticated discovery and communication between the electronic medical and fitness devices connected to the wireless communication hub device and remote computer s accessing the electronic medical and fitness devices . This capability may enable health care providers and medical data users to setup accounts that provide access to the electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to one or more wireless communication hub devices registered to them. Authentication may be accomplished by the service platform server with respect to the wireless communication hub device electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device a computer accessing the service platform server via the Internet and or the user of a computer using any known device and user authentication methods. This service may employ a custom protocol to communicate with particular electronic medical and fitness devices connected to a wireless communication hub device .

The service platform services may also handle normal interfacing and device management issues such as allowing wireless communication hub devices to enter an idle mode to minimize over the air OTA usage charges and waking up an idle wireless communication hub device when needed. Like the wireless communication hub device s handling of electronic medical and fitness devices the data protocol between the service platform server the wireless communication hub device and the accessing computer s can be generic enabling support for almost any current and future electronic medical and fitness devices or server based data system. The wireless communication hub device may register connected electronic medical and fitness devices with the service platform server making electronic medical and fitness devices available to authorized remote servers and computers e.g. a physician s personal computer .

The service platform provides client services enabling access to the remote electronic medical and fitness devices which may be facilitated for any type of computer capable of hosting the software necessary to access the service platform server regardless of whether that computer has the native ability to host locally connected electronic medical and fitness devices . Thus accessing computer s may include mobile devices e.g. phones smart phones etc. with applications capable of accessing the data from the service platform server . The service platform services may also include machine to machine M2M applications where the remotely accessing computer supports no direct human interaction.

Another service of service platform services may be the setup and configuration of the wireless communication hub device including support for the addition and removal of connected electronic medical and fitness devices and connectivity by remote computers e.g. the personal computer of an attending physician . For example an attending physician may login to the service platform service identify the physician s patient authenticate himself and thereby gain access to medical data from electronic medical devices within the patient s home so as to determine the current condition of the patient. The various embodiments enable this telemedical communication system to be established simply by plugging a wireless communication hub device into a power outlet within the patient s home and providing the physician with the URL for the service platform server .

Another service of the service platform services may be user based authentication using mechanisms that can be used to associate an authenticated user and computer with the wireless communication hub device and its connected electronic medical and fitness devices . Data particularly personal information and medical data transmitted between the wireless communication hub device the service platform server and computers may be encrypted by the wireless communication hub device to enhance the privacy of the transmitted data and comply with the HIPAA regulations.

The service platform services may also enable accessing electronic medical and fitness devices from any Internet connected computer e.g. web kiosks when a user is away from the user s personal computer . The service platform services may also include storage relaying and utilization of data obtained from electronic medical and fitness devices connected to a wireless communication hub device . Such utilization of electronic medical and fitness device data made possible by the various embodiments may enable a variety of useful applications.

In a further embodiment intelligence in the wireless communication hub device and service platform server may enhance the efficiency of wireless data transmission facilitating an appearance of persistence in the connection to the electronic medical and fitness devices while minimizing wireless cellular network overhead. In this manner the service platform server may host the latest data or status from electronic medical and fitness devices for access by computer s enabling the appearance that the electronic medical and fitness devices are continuously connected to a computer e.g. a physician s personal computer accessing the electronic medical and fitness devices via the service platform server . This appearance of continuous connectivity may be achieved without the need to maintain a constant communication link between the electronic medical and fitness devices the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server . Depending upon the nature of the electronic medical and fitness device data provided by the electronic medical and fitness device status states of electronic medical and fitness device or current circumstances establishment of an active communication link to transmit updated data from the electronic medical and fitness device may be accomplished on an as needed basis. By configuring the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server with intelligence a wide variety of electronic medical and fitness device applications may be supported while minimizing communication costs.

As mentioned above users personal computer s may be provisioned with wireless communication hub device driver software modules. The basic function of such driver software may be to support transparent access to electronic medical and fitness devices connected to a wireless communication hub device . Such driver software may provide virtualized access to the USB or FireWire port across a local network or a wide area network e.g. the Internet and may be used to support secure access to wireless communication hub devices through the service platform server . Such driver software may be made available from a service platform services website such as may be hosted by the service platform server and may include the necessary encryption keys to access specific electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to a wireless communication hub device associated with a patient. Such encryption keys may be generated during the electronic medical and fitness device setup registration and configuration phase.

Unlike a common single physical cable connection between the electronic medical and fitness devices and an attached computer the virtual nature of the connectivity to the electronic medical and fitness devices via the wireless communication hub device allows more than a single computer to access the same remote electronic medical and fitness device at a given time. Likewise the electronic medical and fitness devices connected to the wireless communication hub device may be accessed by a number of different remotely accessing computers . Further the connectivity and access permissions configuration may be changed at any time by remote computers interfacing with the service platform server .

Third party servers may communicate with the service platform server via the Internet to receive data from or communicate data to electronic medical and fitness devices connected to a wireless communication hub device .

In order to accommodate different data structures communication protocols and driver software the wireless communication hub device may communicate with a remote server that can provide a service platform of functionalities. Such a service platform server may then facilitate the communication of data between users of the electronic medical and fitness device data on one side and the details of communicating with and controlling a wide variety of electronic medical and fitness devices on the patient s end.

In an embodiment the platform may be configured to include and or support any or all of a wireless communication hub device e.g. a 2Net hub that operates as a standalone U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA registered external device electronic medical and fitness devices with an embedded cellular component mobile phones and application programming interfaces APIs that provide service platform integration between the main platform to partner service platforms.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may serve as an information highway for machine to machine M2M health care devices into and out of the home. The wireless communication hub device may be a compact plug and play gateway comprised of three short range radios that collect medical device data from electronic medical and fitness devices and biometric sensors and sends that data via its wide area network WAN cellular module to a cloud based service platform. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be one of the four gateways used to access the platform.

In an embodiment the platform may be configured to enable electronic medical and fitness device partners to un tether data from their electronic medical and fitness devices via a process that may include a data acquisition step in which data is obtained from a patient s electronic medical and fitness device through several potential gateways such as the wireless communication hub device a mobile phone a cellular enabled medical or fitness device or a partner service platform a data transmission step in which the data may be encrypted and uploaded to a cloud over a secure 3G connection and a data storage access step in which after the cloud has received the transmission patient data is decrypted and transmitted to the manufacturers interface of choice for the patient physicians payers and or other partners to access .

In an embodiment the system may be configured such that an end to end encryption process leverages network operations data centers and cloud services that allow electronic medical and fitness devices to securely and reliably share data with approved healthcare providers payers and patients in a HIPAA compliant and FDA compliant manner. In an embodiment the platform e.g. the 2Net Platform may be ISO 13485 certified meaning it may align with the quality requirements of U.S. and international regulatory agencies in the healthcare industry.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may serve as a connection gateway between a variety of different types of electronic medical and fitness devices and personal sensor devices which can only communicate locally and remote facilities and data storage systems which can use the data of such devices but are only coupled to the Internet.

The wireless communication hub device may be a standalone data collection engine that is installed in the user premises and works remotely over the air OTA without requiring any end user intervention. The wireless communication hub device may communicate with one to many approved electronic medical and fitness devices at designated times as indicated by a backend server e.g. service platform server . The wireless communication hub device may collect and store data from devices locally in persistent storage and may at configured intervals upload the data securely to the service platform server or another backend server.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured to support multi hub device Roaming in which an electronic medical and fitness device that is paired with one wireless communication hub device can be used with another wireless communication hub device within or outside the primary location if the electronic medical and fitness device comes into the proximity of the other wireless communication hub device . The specific electronic medical and fitness device operation with the wireless communication hub device may be subject to re authentication with the new wireless communication hub device . In certain cases a Service All type wireless communication hub device may allow any electronic medical and fitness device that wants to connect to the wireless communication hub device to operate as long as there is a device type authentication. In an embodiment tiered license levels may be granted for ad hoc electronic medical and fitness device to wireless communication hub device pairing and operation e.g. akin to a 2net Hub Hotspot . For example the wireless communication hub device may be paired with specific electronic medical and fitness devices e.g. glucometer blood pressure monitor weight scale etc. with which it communicates called hub to device associations . The electronic medical and fitness device may be transported to a second location e.g. a friend s house that also has a wireless communication hub device e.g. a second wireless communication hub device that can pick up traffic from the electronic medical and fitness device and communicate the information i.e. the system may be configured such that same data is sent to the back end regardless of the wireless communication hub device used . Since communications from the back end may need to be conveyed to the electronic medical and fitness device and the existence of the hub to device associations the system may keep track of all the wireless communication hub devices to which an electronic medical and fitness device roams such that the system delivers the data to the last wireless communication hub device in the list to all wireless communication hub devices in the list or sequentially to each wireless communication hub device in the list until the correct wireless communication hub device is located. In an embodiment the service platform server and or the wireless communication hub device may infer co location of the wireless communication hub device with another wireless communication hub device without the benefit of location data.

As illustrated in the wireless communication hub device may utilize the API features provided by an existing or modified application framework e.g. Android Application Framework and may be designed as a set of modular entities that interact with each other. Each module may group tasks together based on similarity of purpose or efficiency of communication. Each module may run in an independent execution context e.g. thread or process or may be grouped together with other modules for system optimization. Each module may be divided into subtasks with compute intensive or I O event driven tasks running in separate threads so as to not bottleneck the rest of the applications response. The wireless communication hub device may support various short range ISM Wireless radios e.g. Bluetooth WLAN 13 ANT etc. commonly in use in the health device industry. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured to support future wireless protocols and radios via a built in USB Host port. In an embodiment all radio support and functionality may be enclosed inside a radio manager module. The wireless communication hub device application may interact closely with a backend server to control and coordinate its operations. The backend server may control the wireless communication hub device s configuration and operation using a configuration file that specifies operating parameters.

The wireless communication hub device may be implemented as a multi module system implemented as several services with each service assigned a specific task and a set of responsibilities. A hub control module HCM may be responsible for starting all the other system modules and after that periodically verifying that they are alive and running. The HCM may provide additional services like logging facilities user notification system reboot handling and software update.

In an embodiment the functions provided by the HCM may include system monitoring e.g. HCM may bring up monitor and shut down the rest of the modules in the system user notification management e.g. HCM may expose functionality for accessing the wireless communication hub device notification LEDs debug logging management e.g. HCM may provide a system wide Logging API on top on the Android Log facility that allows saving trace messages to permanent storage files and also simultaneously sending it to Android s logcat reboot management e.g. HCM may allow the system to perform an orderly reboot when needed and software update management e.g. HCM may provide system and additional software i.e. device Agents update management so that updates can be installed safely and rolled back if necessary .

In an embodiment the HCM may be an Android Service that utilizes a messenger API to communicate with other module services after binding to each of them. Each controlled module service may be represented in the control module as an instance of a specialized enum class that provides the context of interaction for the controlled service. The specialized enum class may implement a simple state machine that represents the stages of the interaction with the controlled service. It may also provide the necessary connection listener and remote handler reference for interacting with the controlled service.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may collect data from connected electronic medical and fitness devices store it locally for period of time and then upload this data to the service platform server . The wireless communication hub device may also interact periodically with the service platform server to receive schedule information download configuration parameters electronic medical and fitness device agents etc. The wireless communication hub device may wake up upon receipt of SMS messages or commands from the service platform server instructing the wireless communication hub device to perform certain operations. These server interactions may flow through the server communication module SCM which may act as the single point of contact between the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server .

The SCM may handle all server communication aspects and use the HBC API for the communication process. The SCM may initiate transfers of stored medical data to the backend server. The SCM may initiate downloading of content e.g. configuration files device agents etc. and coordinate passing them to the appropriate modules that need to operate on them. The SCM may maintain a persistent list of data content that needs to be uploaded and may maintain this information while taking account of retries reboots etc. The SCM may keep track of upload and download failures and retries communication till the data transfer is successful.

In an embodiment the SCM may be implemented as an Android Service which is started by the HCM. On startup SCM may initialize internal data structures and perform a sanity check on the upload file directory. The SCM may detect unaccounted files by comparing all files in the directory against a persistent list it maintains. If any files are found it may mark them for upload and transfer them out at the first opportunity. The SCM may register an intent for receiving SMS messages and may expose a messenger object to each module that binds to it. When a run command is received the SCM may start processing messages.

Internally the SCM may create a reference to the HBC API library. The SCM may create a worker thread that may handle all heavy duty tasks. The main SCM thread may delegate such tasks to the worker thread and the worker thread may perform these operations in a separate thread and inform the main thread about the result. This may ensure that the main SCM thread is always ready and free to process and receive send messages to other modules. The SCM may also maintain a persistent list of files for performing a sanity check.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be enabled to temporarily save electronic medical and fitness device data in persistent storage before uploading it at scheduled times to the service platform server . A data store module DSM may organize this data in a systematic way store it persistently in a file system and perform appropriate file housekeeping operations to manage the data. This DSM may communicate with other wireless communication hub device modules by posting and receiving events and messages.

The tasks performed by the DSM may include storing electronic medical and fitness device data e.g. may accumulate data for each device in files may first look to see if a file is already present for the specified device and if so open it and append data to the file and otherwise create a new file as per the device s ID collection time and other parameters triggering data transfers e.g. when the scheduling manager sends an upload request the DSM may complete file operations and transfer files containing data for the requested device to the SCM monitoring file size DSM may automatically trigger a transfer if the device s file size exceeds a pre configured limit by checking the device file size during medical device data writes to the file system and moving files as needed checking for file aging e.g. using appropriate parameters provided by the configuration manager the DSM may monitor the file system using timers for devices that don t send data for extended periods of time and detect and promptly upload aged data files maintain file system integrity e.g. the DSM may keep track of the integrity of all created files by writing file names to a persistent list monitoring this list checking the list against the file system after reboots and uploading discrepancies .

The wireless communication hub device may support multiple short range radios operating in the ISM band to enable it to communicate with different types of wireless electronic medical and fitness devices. The radio manager module may abstract communication with these multiple radios and provide a common interface allowing the rest of the wireless communication hub device ecosystem modules to operate as if they are interacting with a single data collection entity. This reduces the complexity in these modules and in the wireless communication hub device system as a whole and allows for radio interaction to be localized to the radio manager module.

To be able to interact with an electronic medical and fitness device the wireless communication hub device may be configured to have knowledge of the electronic medical and fitness devices communication internals and protocols. This information may be provided to the wireless communication hub device as a packaged entity called device agent either by the electronic medical and fitness device manufacturers or may be developed in close interaction with the electronic medical and fitness device manufacturers. This may decouple the wireless communication hub device engineering effort from electronic medical and fitness device dependencies and allow the wireless communication hub device to support any electronic medical and fitness device that may conform to a device agent paradigm.

The radio manager may provide a control framework to coordinate the operation of supported short range radios and interfaces to access the radio communication functionality necessary to be able to identify authenticate and interact with electronic medical and fitness devices. As mentioned by design the radio manager may neither contain any intelligence nor attempt to store any information that pertains to the internals of the electronic medical and fitness device. This intelligence may be encapsulated inside a device agent paired with that electronic medical and fitness device. The radio manager may enable the relevant device agent to talk to the electronic medical and fitness device the wireless communication hub device may be asked to communicate with.

The common radio interface exposed by the radio manager to external modules may accept commands that are internally de multiplexed to individual radio manager instances that control each supported radio. Each one of these internal radio interfaces may be responsible for ensuring that the managed radio is properly operational and is able to perform device data collection on the schedule communicated by the wireless communication hub device scheduling module.

Each radio instance may include the following functionality radio housekeeping e.g. radio manger instance may take care of Radio Power ON OFF and reset to control the radio maintaining Radio s state and configuration to ensure proper operation device identification e.g. radio manager instance may communicate directly the first time an electronic medical and fitness device is visible to the wireless communication hub device and gets its hardware identification parameters to determine future communication radio access e.g. radio manager instance may expose a set of interfaces to allow controlled access to the corresponding radio functionality device communication context e.g. radio manager instance may provide a context that allows activation of the relevant device agent needed to communicate with a corresponding medical device device access monitoring e.g. radio manager instance may monitor medical device access and intervene as necessary to make sure that hub operation and security are not compromised and device data collection e.g. radio manager instance may provide context and route collected device data to the data collection module for aggregation and upload to the service platform server 

In an embodiment the service platform server may control wireless communication hub device operations at a macro level using a set of pre defined parameters sent to the wireless communication hub device in a configuration file. This file may get sent to the wireless communication hub device soon after a wireless communication hub device s initial startup and after that as many times as needed. Aspects of the wireless communication hub device operation may be controlled including the wireless communication hub device s electronic medical and fitness device interaction data collection radio and upload server communication frequency etc. In an embodiment the complete list of controlled parameters may be part of a wireless communication hub device configuration file. These parameters may be packaged in a pre defined XML format file and exchanged using wireless communication hub device service platform server interaction protocols that are implemented robustly by both sides to ensure secure and fail safe operation.

A configuration scheduling module CSM may be an entity on the wireless communication hub device side that is responsible for receiving processing and applying these updates and driving the operation of the wireless communication hub device . The CSM may be implemented by closely related components.

In an embodiment a configuration manager may handle the configuration management and a scheduling manager may tick or pace the operation of the hub data collection and upload.

The configuration manager which may be a portion of the configuration scheduling module may be responsible for managing storing and sharing configuration parameters received from the service platform server with the rest of the wireless communication hub device modules. Configuration parameters controlling wireless communication hub device operation may be sent using a specified XML file format. These parameters may be extracted using a custom parser and are stored in a container object maintained in memory by the configuration manager. Portions of this object may be packed in a bundle and passed on to interested wireless communication hub device modules. In an embodiment the configuration manager may perform operations for configuration file parsing e.g. configuration manager may handle parsing of a downloaded configuration file and after parsing sending configuration OK or error status to the SCM managing configuration items e.g. configuration manager may be responsible for appropriately storing the parsed configuration items and managing them till another configuration update from the service platform server sending configuration updates e.g. configuration manager may notify the other wireless communication hub device modules about a configuration update event and then share parameters with the affected modules and handling Full Partial configuration file e.g. configuration manager may determine if a received configuration file is full or partial and so whether to incrementally update its stored configuration parameters or start with a clean slate and or determine the need to inform all modules or just a subset of affected modules .

In an embodiment the scheduling manager may be sub module of the wireless communication hub device configuration scheduling module. In an embodiment the scheduling manager may handle schedule processing for electronic medical and fitness device interaction and uploading to the service platform server . The scheduling manager may provide schedule ticking for interacting with electronic medical and fitness devices in accordance to a radio schedule blueprint. The scheduling manager may provide schedule ticking for uploading data collected from the electronic medical and fitness devices to service platform server in accordance to an upload schedule blueprint. The scheduling manager may notify the service platform server about priority conflicts on the schedule blueprint as soon as they are encountered. The scheduling manager may interact with a radio manager by notifying it to start interacting with electronic medical and fitness devices. The scheduling manager may interact with the data collection manager DCM by notifying it to upload data collected from a given electronic medical and fitness device.

The scheduling manager may include two scheduler algorithm instances that may process a schedule blueprint generated by the service platform server for both data collection and uploading. After set up each schedule algorithm instance may provide callbacks at times calculated from the blueprint to request data or listen for connection or upload collected data from an electronic medical and fitness device in Schedule Algorithm a.k.a. resource and report that a given electronic medical and fitness device s was were not serviced due to priority and or radio in Schedule Algorithm a.k.a. group conflict.

Even though embedded within configuration service the scheduling manager may provide its own thread for processing newly downloaded schedules for both data collection and uploading to the service platform server . The blueprint may provide an already distributed schedule for data collection and data upload. Each schedule blueprint may be transferred from the service platform server to the wireless communication hub device as part of the configuration file one for data collection and one for data upload. Each algorithm instance may receive the following fields as input for each entry Resource e.g. device ID Group e.g. Radio Timestamp e.g. when the first service to resource has to occur Period e.g. elapsed time after first or previous service to the next one which can be zero for single shot events Window e.g. amount of time this resource will require to be serviced and Priority e.g. Absolute priority of this resource to be serviced . In an embodiment all time fields may be specified in seconds. The Timestamp field may be relative to the Base Timestamp from the blueprint itself. The Base Timestamp may be by convenience set to the 0 00 00 hours of the reference date i.e. download date or whatever date may be specified from the service platform server . In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device and the electronic medical and fitness device may communicate. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device and electronic medical and fitness device may pre pair.

In an embodiment the customer device kit may include the wireless communication hub device . The wireless communication hub device and electronic medical and fitness device may support the ability to be pre paired in some fashion either thru proximity discovery or remote association. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device s and electronic medical and fitness device s respective identities may be associated and discoverable for authentication purposes. In this manner plug and play operation and easier use may be enabled after delivery of the customer device kit to the consumer.

The wireless communication hub device electronic medical and fitness device pairing scenarios may include a new wireless communication hub device bundled with a pre paired at factory pre shipment electronic medical a wireless communication hub device and registered medical and fitness device registered upon the web registration or call of the customer.

The pairing and electronic medical and fitness device discovery may be enabled by the native short range radio drivers layer on the wireless communication hub device . In an embodiment only electronic medical and fitness devices with which the service system may be authorized to form a connection with the system and electronic medical and fitness devices that are not authorized may not connect. Criteria to be authorized may include a business relationship a data license agreement it is FDA approved as required drivers application partner pairing in place etc.

For pairing and authentication of the device by the wireless communication hub device over the short range radio the electronic medical and fitness device may be uniquely identified e.g. for Bluetooth by its MAC ID during the radio link communication prior to sending any data payload. In an embodiment a pairing header may include the mandatory identification ID fields. For a legacy electronic medical and fitness device that does not support a unique identification mechanism on the radio link the customer may provide detailed information of other data that is transmitted on the radio link and that will allow the wireless communication hub device to uniquely identify the electronic medical and fitness device through a configuration file mechanism. After the wireless communication hub device has paired successfully with the electronic medical and fitness device thru the pairing header the service platform server may map this information to the appropriate customer so the data payload may be properly delivered. The mapping may result in following information associated at the service platform server Manufacturer Id Customer Id e.g. ACME CORP145 device product Id serial number e.g. 1234567923 and any other fields that may be needed. Alternatively mapping may not be required when the electronic medical and fitness device is Continua compliant certified and or these fields will be transmitted.

On the short range radio link the wireless communication hub device may receive the raw measurement payload data from the electronic medical and fitness device store it and then upload to the service platform server . The wireless communication hub device may expect to receive the data in some threshold amount of time which may be associated with the short range radio link.

In an embodiment electrical medical and fitness devices may be configured with a standard wireless data link such as Bluetooth in which case the wireless communication hub device may be simplified to utilize that single standard local area wireless communication transceiver.

In an embodiment the wireless M2M communication hub may be used in the home setting to enable wireless medical and fitness devices to communicate data regarding a patient in the residence to remote users of such data.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be used in the home setting to enable electronic medical and fitness devices to communicate data regarding a patient in the residence to remote users of such data. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be plugged into a standard wall electrical socket to receive power and then search out and pair with wireless electronic medical and fitness devices such as blood pressure monitors glucose meters treadmills etc. using the wireless communication links of such devices. Such pairing and establishing the communication links may be accomplished automatically thereby minimizing the configuration and setup burden for the patient. The wireless communication hub device may collect data provided by the various electronic medical and fitness devices in the home package the data into suitable packets for communication via wireless and Internet communication links and send the data packets back to the central server i.e. a service platform server or virtual personal hub VPH server using a wireless wide area network WWAN communication link such as an LTE 3G or 4G cellular communication network. In order to enable the greatest ease of setup lack of complexity and security for this medical communication system the wireless communication hub device and the central server i.e. service platform server may be configured to provide for automatic device discovery communication links setup security key exchange data addressing and device configuration. Thus in an embodiment a patient may simply plug the wireless communication hub device into an electrical outlet to establish a communication network between the wireless electronic medical and fitness devices in the patient s home and those facilities and services that can utilize the medical and fitness data generated by such devices. Using suitable encryption mechanisms the data may be transferred securely while maintaining the appropriate security required under government regulations e.g. HIPAA .

In a simple embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured as a small integrated module that can be plugged into a power source such as a standard utility wall socket and attached wirelessly or via a wired connection like USB to one or more medical or fitness devices e.g. a blood pressure sensor a glucose monitor a pedometer a treadmill etc. . The wireless communication hub device may be configured with processor executable software to enable connected electronic medical and fitness devices to be used from any computer attached to a local area network or the Internet. An associated Internet server based service platform enables discovery of the wireless communication hub device and connected electronic medical and fitness devices. The wireless communication hub device may also be accessed from the Internet through the associated server based service.

The various embodiments of the wireless communication hub device hub or 2net HUB in the drawings minimize the complexity of networking electronic medical and fitness devices by eliminating many of the requirements conventionally imposed on a host system and local network. Wireless communication hub devices can be placed in any location stationary or mobile and are configured so that the electronic medical and fitness devices connected to the wireless communication hub device appear to the accessing computers as if they are locally connected. This is accomplished by way of intelligence and connectivity in the wireless communication hub device the associated server based service and optionally software that may be hosted on the accessing computer.

The various embodiments also simplify the traditionally challenging technical processes of networking electronic medical and fitness devices such as setup and initialization security driver management and device sharing by way of a server based supporting service element. This service may also enable valuable communication and data utilization capabilities such as batch operation support access via the Web and intelligent sharing across user defined and controlled groups.

In order to provide a universal hub to handle health sensitive data from any of a variety of electronic medical and fitness devices a number of different radios may be implemented within the wireless communication hub device. Multiple radios each potentially serving multiple devices increases the complexity of design but simplifies the process of establishing communication networks between electronic medical and fitness devices and remote users of data from those devices. Employing multiple radios in the wireless communication hub device enables manufacturers of various electronic medical and fitness devices to be able to pair up with the hub without significant changes to their devices thus enabling them to avoid the need to be concerned with communication protocols and data encryption. This enables the wireless communication hub device to function as a data in data out device with its only function being to collect package and faithfully transfer data to the service platform server.

In an embodiment wireless communication hub system may support business to business B2B transmission and storage processes using dual databases. In a simple B2B transmission model the storing of data may be merely to assist in the forwarding of the data to the appropriate partner. The wireless communication hub device may serves as a simple pipeline to transfer data. In a B2B Transmission Analytics model the wireless communication hub device may provide analytics to electronic medical and fitness device manufacturers and other partners and may store some or all of the data collected on the manufacturers or partners behalves but may not have a relationship with the consumer.

In the various embodiments the service platform server may transmit data for pipeline functions and store some or all of the data for the purpose of performing analytics on identifiable data. In an embodiment there may be no direct relationship with the consumer. In an embodiment in which the service platform server operator may receive data storage rights for protected health information PHI data e.g. by contract with a business partner the protected health information may be stored in a secure facility as per contract and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA . In an embodiment in which the service platform server operator receives data storage rights for de identified data the original PHI data may be stored in one database and may be one way hashed out and stored in another database in de identified form. In an embodiment the data may be stored in the dual databases such that data continuity is maintained. In an embodiment the data may be stored in the database and backed up for an indefinite period. The data may be housed in a secure PCI environment data center.

In an embodiment data controls may be implemented based on data rights. In an embodiment security policies and procedures may implement physical technical and administrative safeguards. In an embodiment data may be encrypted e.g. via AES 128 and secured end to end e.g. from the wireless communication hub to a service platform server and to a customer s server s . In another embodiment the system may implement a de identifying data approach in which a chunk of data is received and de identified e.g. according to the HIPAA standard . In an embodiment the system may be configured such that new data is not added to the de identified data but rather the de identification process is re run on a larger data set.

In an embodiment simply removing identifiers may not be sufficient to de identify PHI and if de identified data could be combined with other information to which it has access to identify an individual it may be considered protected health information. In an embodiment if health information obtained from a HIPAA covered entities includes an electronic medical and fitness device serial number that identifier alone may be used to identify the information as protected health information.

In addition to supporting multiple radio protocols including Bluetooth Wi Fi and ANT a software scheme may be implemented within the wireless communication hub device to accommodate a wide range of customizations. To support this the hub processor may be configured with a high functionality operating system such as the Android operating system.

A wireless communication hub device may be configured to use software interface models that mirror the types of devices that can be connected to computers via USB Universal serial bus or FireWire ports. In short the wireless communication hub device embodiments can broaden and extend the value of many connected electronic medical and fitness devices. Employing the wireless communication hub device electronic medical and fitness devices can be placed virtually anywhere shared across groups accessed via the Internet or local networks and supported by extended services which enable new use models and revenue opportunities.

In order to comply with regulations imposed on medical equipment the wireless communication hub device may be developed under ISO 13485 standards that are required for medical devices. This would enable wireless communication hub device systems to be sold in combination with one or more medical devices as a system.

Various embodiments described herein provide devices systems and methods that enable remote access to peripherals commonly connected to personal computers via USB FireWire serial ports etc. using a wireless communication hub device that simplifies networking of devices to computing systems. The various embodiments include a wireless communication hub device which includes a processor and communication transceivers configured to connect to cellular and or Wi Fi communication networks. The wireless communication hub device may be configured as a small integrated module that can be plugged into a power source such as a standard utility wall socket and attached to one or more peripheral devices e.g. a digital camera hard drive printer digital picture frame etc. . The wireless communication hub device may be configured with processor executable software to enable connected peripheral devices to be used from any computer attached to a local area network or the Internet. An associated Internet server based service enables discovery of the wireless communication hub device and connected peripherals. The wireless communication hub device may also be accessed from the Internet through the associated server based service.

The various embodiments of the wireless communication hub device VPH in the drawings minimize the complexity of sharing peripheral devices e.g. electronic medical and fitness devices digital cameras hard drives printers etc. by eliminating many of the requirements conventionally imposed on a host system and local network. The wireless communication hub device may be placed in any location stationary or mobile and may be configured so that the peripherals connected to the wireless communication hub device appear to the accessing computers as if they are locally connected. This may be accomplished by way of intelligence and connectivity in the wireless communication hub device the associated server based service and optionally software that may be hosted on the accessing computer.

The wireless communication hub device may enable services in which large service providers e.g. Google own private user data. Starting with email there has been a trend in the information businesses towards remote and centralized storage and management of all user content. The benefits to the service provider are many. However this concept runs counter to the desire of many users to maintain physical control over their private data. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device provides the capability of a network enabled removable storage media such as a removable USB hard drive that may enable universally accessible consumer data that remains locally owned. The wireless communication hub device enables users to choose whether and how they wish to share their data without turning it over to a service provider or losing the ability to access it from any system. The wireless communication hub device embodiments enable broadening and generalizing this basic concept to encompass any connected peripheral device making it appear as if the device is connected directly to the remote computer.

The various embodiments also simplify the traditionally challenging technical processes of networking peripheral devices such as setup and initialization security driver management and device sharing by way of a server based supporting service element. This service also enables valuable communication and data utilization capabilities such as batch operation support access via the Web and intelligent sharing across user defined and controlled groups.

The various embodiments enable wireless communication hub devices to broaden and extend the value of many connected peripherals. Employing the wireless communication hub device peripheral devices can be placed virtually anywhere shared across groups accessed via the Internet or local networks and supported by extended services which enable new use models and revenue opportunities.

An example of an application of the communication network illustrated in is the transmission of data from medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor . Once the wireless communication hub device is installed and registered with the service platform server it can be connected to the medical and fitness device such as a medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor by a cable e.g. a USB cable or FireWire cable or a wireless communication link e.g. a Bluetooth . Once connected the wireless communication hub device may report the connection with the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor to the service platform server which may maintain data records for storing data received from the sensor medical device or fitness device. Data records may be maintained in a user account in an account associated with the communication hub device and or each medical or fitness device.

Data packets received from the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor by the wireless communication hub device may be encapsulated in IP packets which are relayed as cellular data communications to a cellular wireless network which applies them to the Internet for delivery to the service platform server . By tunneling the data packets received from the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor to the service platform server within encapsulated IP packets the wireless communication hub device does not have to be configured with driver software module s for interacting with the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor . Instead the encapsulating IP packets from the wireless communication hub device may be received by the service platform server which unpacks the packets so the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor data may be processed by the driver software module appropriate for the medical or fitness device resident on the service platform server and the translated data may be stored on the service platform server . In this manner the processing of the electronic medical or fitness device data in the service platform server using a driver appropriate for the electronic medical or fitness device may enable storage of translated data that may be in a useful format to various data users.

With the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor data stored on the service platform server this medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor data may be made accessible via the Internet to other entities which may have use for the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor data. For example the stored medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor data may be transmitted to a doctor s computer or hospital server as hypertext transfer protocol IP HTTP IP packets such as in response to queries posed to a website hosted by the service platform server . In an embodiment the doctor s computer may use a driver appropriate for the electronic medical or fitness device to view the electronic medical or fitness device data.

The communication network may also enable hardware manufacturers to control or limit the distribution of driver software in order to maintain control over the data or electronic medical and fitness devices for which they are responsible. For example some medical device manufacturers may choose to maintain device drivers as proprietary software so that data from their products can only be interpreted by their in house servers. Such limitations may be appropriate to prevent storage of sensitive patient information on databases accessible via the Internet . Such limitations may also be appropriate to ensure that medical devices cannot be reprogrammed or controlled by unauthorized individuals. To support such an implementation the service platform server may forward unprocessed data packets received from such a proprietary sensor e.g. a blood pressure sensor as encapsulated IP packets to the device manufacturer s server via the Internet or another network not shown . The manufacturer s server may then use its proprietary driver software to interpret the data received from the electronic medical and fitness device.

As noted above the communication link to the electronic medical and fitness devices e.g. blood pressure sensor enabled by the service platform server and wireless communication hub device can support reverse communications in a similar manner. Thus a medical facility or manufacture of the electronic medical and fitness device may transmit settings commands to the device using the communication links illustrated in . For example a doctor receiving readings from the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor via a medical server may transmit a message to be displayed on a screen of the medical or fitness device e.g. a blood pressure BP sensor or another electronic medical and fitness device coupled to the wireless communication hub device .

One challenge faced by those who set up local wireless networks involves discovering and establishing communication links with all devices that may be accessed via the network. This challenge is simplified by the services provided by the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server .

When the wireless communication hub device is installed and initially activated it may report to the service platform server all of the commercial devices coupled to it by wired e.g. USB connector FireWire or wireless links e.g. Bluetooth link . As part of the registration process the service platform server may assign unique IPv6 addresses to each of the electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device . These IPv6 addresses can then be used by a local computer to access specific electronic medical and fitness devices via the wireless communication hub device . Thus to access a particular electronic medical and fitness device a user may use a personal computer coupled to the Internet via a local wireless router to access the service platform server . After registering with the service platform server such as by entering a username and password or exchanging verification keys the user may request and receive a listing of all electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device including their IPv6 addresses. Once the user s personal computer has the IPv6 addresses of the electronic medical and fitness devices the computer may then access particular electronic medical and fitness devices via wireless communications through the wireless router to the wireless communication hub device . Command signals such as data access requests transmitted by the local computer that are addressed to a particular electronic medical and fitness device using the IPv6 address provided by the service platform server will be relayed by the wireless communication hub device . Thus one of the service platform services enabled by the various embodiments is simplified network establishment with electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device .

The various embodiments of the wireless communication hub device and the service platform services can enable rapid and efficient deployment of existing and future electronic medical and fitness devices e.g. cameras etc. to locations and circumstances which may not currently lend themselves well to such deployments. For example a battery powered wireless communication hub device may be coupled to electronic medical devices without the need for running cables configuring routers and networks or configuring the devices. Connectivity and configuration including providing drivers for receiving the camera imagery can be handled automatically by the wireless communication hub device and the service platform services. In this manner a telemedicine communication link can be established to a patient or an ad hoc medical station at a scene of an accident in a sporting event e.g. a marathon or on the battlefield without the need for an infrastructure any more complex than access to a cellular communication network.

Another example of a useful application of the communication network enabled by wireless communication hub device services is illustrated in . In this example the peripheral device is a medical sensor such as a blood pressure BP sensor . Data from medical sensors may be of interest to a number of different parties including the user s physician a local hospital monitoring the user medical insurance carriers manufacturers of the user s blood pressure medication and manufacturers of the blood pressure sensor to name just a few. As illustrated in the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server may make such medical data available to those entities which needed it without the complication of making the blood pressure sensor network accessible establishing a network encompassing the sensor or deploying drivers for the blood pressure sensor to other computers. Once the wireless communication hub device is installed and registered with the service platform server it can be connected to the medical sensor such as a blood pressure sensor by a cable e.g. a USB cable 6 or FireWire cable 8 or a wireless communication link e.g. a Bluetooth as illustrated . Once connected the wireless communication hub device can report the connection to the blood pressure sensor to the service platform server which may maintain data records for storing data received from the sensor. Data packets received from the blood pressure sensor by the wireless communication hub device may be encapsulated in IP packets which are relayed as cellular data communications to a cellular communication network which applies them to the Internet for delivery to the service platform server . By tunneling the data packets received from the blood pressure such to the service platform server within encapsulated IP packets the wireless communication hub device does not have to be configured with driver software for interacting with the blood pressure sensor . Instead the encapsulating IP packets from the wireless communication hub device may be received by the service platform server which unpacks the packets so the blood pressure sensor data can processed by the appropriate driver software that is resident on the server. With the blood pressure sensor data stored on the service platform server this information may be made accessible via the Internet to other entities which may have use for the data. For example the processed blood pressure sensor data may be transmitted to a doctor s computer or hospital server as hypertext transfer protocol IP HTTP IP packets such as in response to queries posed to a website hosted by the service platform server .

The communication network illustrated in may also enable hardware manufacturers to control or limit the distribution of driver software in order to maintain control over the data or peripheral devices for which they are responsible. For example some medical device manufacturers may choose to maintain device drivers as proprietary software so that data from their products can only be interpreted by their in house servers. Such limitations may be appropriate to prevent storage of sensitive patient information on databases accessible via the Internet . Such limitations may also be appropriate to ensure that medical devices cannot be reprogrammed or controlled by unauthorized individuals. To support such an implementation the service platform server may forward unprocessed data packets received from such a proprietary sensor e.g. blood pressure sensor as encapsulated IP packets to the device manufacturer s server via the Internet or another network not shown . The manufacturer s server may then use its proprietary driver software to interpret the data received from the peripheral device.

As noted above the communication link to the peripheral devices e.g. blood pressure sensor enabled by the service platform server and wireless communication hub device can support reverse communications in a similar manner. Thus a medical facility or manufacture of the peripheral device may transmit settings commands to the device using the communication links illustrated in . For example a doctor receiving readings from the blood pressure sensor via a medical server may transmit a message to be displayed on a screen of the blood pressure sensor or another peripheral device coupled to the wireless communication hub device .

In addition to the basic functionality of the wireless communication hub device services there are numerous opportunities for advanced features that may be added by software developers peripheral device manufactures and data services companies. Some illustrative examples include device and data sharing across groups easy setup of LAN and Wi Fi connectivity of connected devices where available periodic access to devices such as web accessible video cameras webcams for security or other monitoring purposes and targeted advertising to users based on the data flowing through the system. The monetization of the various services enabled by the wireless communication hub device and associated services may provide numerous opportunities for new businesses and the generation of new revenue streams.

As mentioned above an embodiment of the wireless communication hub device may include a local wireless network transceiver e.g. Wi Fi transceiver enabling it to communicate with computers and devices networked via a local wireless router . Such communications may be enabled by the service platform server and the wireless communication hub device services provided in the various embodiments.

One challenge faced by those who set up local wireless networks involves discovering and establishing communication links with all devices that may be accessed via the network. This challenge is simplified by the services provided by the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server . When the wireless communication hub device is installed and initially activated it may report to the service platform server all of the commercial devices coupled to it by wired e.g. USB connector 6 FireWire 8 or wireless links e.g. Bluetooth link 10 . As part of the registration process the service platform server may assign unique IPv6 addresses to each of the peripheral devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device . These IPv6 addresses can then be used by a local computer to access specific peripheral devices via the wireless communication hub device . Thus to access a particular peripheral device such as a webcam a user may use a personal computer coupled to the Internet via a local wireless router to access the service platform server . After registering with the service platform server such as by entering a username and password or exchanging verification keys the user may request and receive a listing of all peripheral devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device including their IPv6 addresses. Once the user s personal computer has the IPv6 addresses of the peripheral devices the computer may then access particular peripheral devices via wireless communications through the wireless router to the wireless communication hub device . Command signals such as data access requests transmitted by the local computer that are addressed to a particular peripheral device such as a webcam using the IPv6 address provided by the service platform server will be relayed by the wireless communication hub device . Thus one of the wireless communication hub device services enabled by the various embodiments is simplified network establishment with peripheral devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device .

The various embodiments of the wireless communication hub device and associated services may enable rapid and efficient deployment of existing and future peripheral devices e.g. cameras etc. to locations and circumstances which may not currently lend themselves well to such deployments. For example a battery powered wireless communication hub device may be coupled to a webcam or digital camera to establish an instant surveillance capability without the need for running cables configuring routers and networks or configuring the devices. Connectivity and configuration including providing drivers for receiving the camera imagery can be handled automatically by the wireless communication hub device and associated services. As another example a printer normally configured for standalone operation may be instantly configured as a networked printer without the need for network connection or network configuration. In this manner a printer may be quickly accessed by any number of computers in a temporary configuration simply by plugging its USB connection into a wireless communication hub device.

Example components of a wireless communication hub device embodiment are illustrated in . The wireless communication hub device may be configured in a case or housing and may include a programmable processor that is coupled to internal memory and to a WWAN transceiver e.g. a cellular telephone transceiver which is coupled to an antenna . A power supply may be coupled to the processor and other components. In some embodiments the power supply may include a battery. In a preferred embodiment the power supply may be electrically connected to a power plug for plugging into a standard utility wall socket. The processor may also be coupled to one or more wired network connection sockets such as a USB port a FireWire port and or an Ethernet socket . In a simple embodiment only a single USB port may be provided. In other embodiments the wireless communication hub device may include multiple USB ports FireWire ports and Ethernet sockets to enable connecting a number of electronic medical and fitness devices via data cables. Providing an optional Ethernet socket within the wireless communication hub device may enable connecting the hub directly to a LAN or local network router. The number of ports may differ among the various embodiments depending upon the physical design of the housing and the particular market or application for which the wireless communication hub device is configured.

In preferred embodiments the wireless communication hub device may include one or more wireless local area network transceivers for coupling to electronic medical and fitness devices via wireless communication links. For example the processor may be coupled to a Bluetooth transceiver which is connected to an antenna and to an IEEE 802.11 i.e. Wi Fi transceiver which is coupled to an antenna for establishing wireless indication links to electronic medical and fitness devices. As described above a Wi Fi transceiver may also be connected to the processor for use in coupling the wireless communication hub device to a local area wireless router. Other local wireless transceivers may also be included such as a Zigbee transceiver not shown for coupling to a Zigbee protocol network or an ANT transceiver for coupling to an ANT protocol network. In some embodiments the wireless communication hub device may include a global positioning system GPS receiver coupled to the processor and to an antenna . It should be noted that instead of having multiple antennas the wireless communication hub device may include a single integrated antenna or two or more transceivers may share a common antenna. Also in some embodiments the wireless communication hub device may not include wired network connection sockets i.e. USB port FireWire port and Ethernet socket are optional and instead include only one or more wireless local area network transceivers for coupling to electronic medical and fitness devices via wireless communication links.

Since the wireless communication hub device is intended to be simple for users to implement it may include a very rudimentary user interface. For example the processor may be coupled to one or more light emitting diodes LEDs for communicating status and to one or more buttons for receiving simple user command inputs e.g. push to activate or restart .

While shows the various components of the wireless communication hub device as separate integrated circuits several components may be integrated into a single very large scale integrated VLSI chip or assembled as an integrated chipset on a single circuit board as is well known in the art. For example many modern cellular telephone transceivers such as the Gobi cellular chipset module manufactured by QUALCOMM Inc. include a powerful processor transceivers for connecting to Wi Fi networks and Bluetooth enabled devices a built in GPS receiver and circuitry for connecting to wired connections such as a data port for receiving USB FireWire and or Ethernet connections. Thus in an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be assembled by configuring a Gobi module or similar cellular transceiver within a housing with an appropriate power supply one or more antennas one or more LEDs one or more buttons and connections to sockets for receiving USB Firewire Ethernet or other wired inputs. Configuring a wireless communication hub device around a sophisticated cellular transceiver module like the Gobi module can provide 3G cellular Wi Fi and Bluetooth connectivity in a single small package.

The processor within a wireless communication hub device may be configured with processor executable instructions which may be stored in memory to enable the processes and communications of the various embodiments described herein. Such software may include the processes required to communicate with a cellular wireless network as well as establishing local networks with electronic medical and fitness devices. Such software may also include a custom protocol for managing communications between the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server as well as with a user s personal computer . Such software may also control processes for identifying and communicating with electronic medical and fitness devices even without having a device driver installed on the processor including packaging received data for transmission to the service platform server by tunneling via the Internet. Such software may also include processes to minimize the cost of operation or maximize battery life when implemented in a battery powered configuration by causing the cellular transceiver to go into an idle mode and wake up in response to inputs from electronic medical and fitness devices or signals received from a service platform server as described herein. For example the service platform server may send an SMS message with or without a message payload to the communication hub device to prompt it to exit the idle mode and accomplish a predetermined or specified action such as contacting the service platform server for instructions.

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may enable direct connection to a personal computer such as via a USB port or Ethernet socket . In this embodiment a personal computer may access electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device as though they were connected directly to the computer.

As noted above the wireless communication hub device may be battery powered powered by conventional household AC current or powered by 12 volt DC current from an automobile e.g. from a cigarette lighter . Thus the power supply will be configured to receive power from whatever form of external source the device is configured to receive and configure the power as required by the processor and transceiver circuitry. In battery powered implementations the power supply may also include circuitry for monitoring the charge of a battery not shown separately and providing charging power to the battery when the connector plug is plugged into a power socket. Power supply circuitries which can perform such functions are well known in the electronic device arts.

The wireless communication hub device may include LEDs that illuminate in different colors such as a three color LED set which can emit yellow green and red lights to indicate different status conditions. Such LEDs may be configured to flash or emit continuous light in response to commands from the processor .

The wireless communication hub device may be configured in a variety of forms. Two examples of a basic small device that plugs into a wall socket are illustrated in . As illustrated the wireless communication hub device may be packaged within a compact housing that exhibits a multicolor LED and features a single push button and one or more USB ports and or other ports sockets . A unique serial number may be printed on the housing to facilitate registration of the wireless communication hub device with the service platform server as described more fully below. An antenna may be provided as part of the housing . An electrical plug may be provided as part of the housing or as a separate module as shown that is configured to plug into a standard wall socket . In some embodiments the power supply may be included as part of a module including the plug .

In various embodiments the wireless communication hub device system may include additional modules such as router logic to enable the device to perform typical processes of a conventional router.

Also the router logic may include algorithms and implement methods for polling connected electronic medical and fitness devices for data according to their respective priority importance to the user s health or an order request by the remote server. Also the wireless communication hub device system may include server logic to enable the device to perform typical processes of a server. Further embodiments of the wireless communication hub device system may include memory and store and forward logic for receiving and storing data from electronic medical and fitness devices and relaying that data at a later time to a destination computer. Router server and store and forward processes and logic are well known in the computer arts.

Initial configuration and some of the operations of the wireless communication hub device are illustrated in as example method . A beneficial characteristic of the wireless communication hub device system is simple fast and reliable setup. To enable simplified setup the wireless communication hub device may be configured with a single button which when pushed initiates activation. The wireless communication hub device may also include a code printed on the housing . The wireless communication hub device may be pre configured to establish wireless communication links with a cellular service e.g. a CDMA 3G 4G etc. and communicate directly with the service platform server via the Internet . After pushing the activation button a user can access an Internet web site of a service platform server and enter the device s code into a webpage to identify the user as the owner of the wireless communication hub device . Thereafter the service platform server may download any required driver software to the user s computer.

Referring to at block the wireless communication hub device may initiate the activation process in response to receiving an activation indication e.g. an indication of a press of the activation button . Alternatively in some embodiments activation may be initiated when the device is first plugged into a power source such as a wall socket . As activation begins at block the wireless communication hub device may begin to flash the LED . For example the processor may flash a yellow LED to indicate that the wireless communication hub device is connecting with a cellular network. Simultaneously at block the wireless communication hub device may attempt to make a connection with a cellular data network. At block once the processor determines that the transceiver has established a connection to a cellular network the processor may place a data call via the cellular network to the service platform server i.e. VPH server . At determination block the processor may monitor the cellular transceiver to determine if a connection has been established with the service platform server . As long as the transceiver is in the process of establishing a communication link to the service platform server i.e. determination No the processor continues to flash the yellow LED.

Once the processor determines that a communication link is established with the service platform server i.e. determination Yes at block the processor may apply steady power to the yellow LED e.g. to indicated that the registration and configuration process is underway . At block at the same time the processor may communicate the identifier of the wireless communication hub device to the service platform server to identify itself and register with the service platform server . The wireless communication hub device may stay in this state for some pre configured period of time e.g. 5 minutes . During this time at block the user may access the service platform server from any computer with a web browser and access to the Internet. At block first time users may set up an account on the service platform server by entering the number printed on the wireless communication hub device along with a user name and password. In an embodiment the number used to identify a wireless communication hub device to the service platform server may be a six digit number. At block the service platform server validates the number entered by the user with the number provided by the wireless communication hub device during its own online registration. If the user entered code and the code communicated by the wireless communication hub device match at block the service platform server may generate encryption and authentication keys to be used in future communications with the wireless communication hub device and the user s computer and transmits those keys to the device and the user s computer to complete the registration process. As part of the registration process the user s computer may download driver software that may be used to communicate with the wireless communication hub device and or the service platform server . Such drivers may be pre configured to enable secure communications with the specific wireless communication hub device i.e. the device with the same six digit number received by the service platform server . Also as part of the registration process the service platform server may download to the wireless communication hub device data and software to support the various functions such as software updates for the hub device appropriate peripheral drivers for interfacing with peripheral devices coupled to the hub device communication look up tables e.g. updated IP addresses etc.

Once the registration and configuration process has been completed at block the processor may illuminate a steady green LED e.g. to indicate to the user that the wireless communication hub device is registered with the service platform server .

It should be noted that the registration process illustrated in is but one example of how a wireless communication hub device may be set up and registered with a user account maintained on a service platform server . Other mechanisms for registering wireless communication hub devices and correlating them with user accounts maintained on the service platform server may also be implemented. For example the correlation of the wireless communication hub device e.g. based upon its six digit number with a user account maintained on the service platform server may be accomplished at the point of sale of the wireless communication hub device . In such an implementation the user information necessary to identify or set up a user account may be obtained by the cashier or entered by the user into the point of sale terminal which transmits that information along with the six digit code to the service platform server . Thus when the user leaves the store after purchasing a wireless communication hub device the system may be ready to begin services as soon as it is plugged into a wall socket and connected to electronic medical or fitness devices i.e. peripheral devices .

Another example method for activating the wireless communication hub device and associating it with a user account may take advantage of location information from a GPS receiver that may be included in the wireless communication hub device itself. In this implementation when the wireless communication hub device is activated such as by being plugged into a wall outlet the wireless communication hub device determines its location from its GPS receiver . Upon establishing a communication link with the service platform server the wireless communication hub device may inform the service platform server of its identification code e.g. the six digit number printed on the housing along with its precise latitude and longitude coordinates. Using this coordinate information the service platform server may identify the user from public information such as a residential address determined based upon the map coordinates and then associate the wireless communication hub device with a user account having the same residential address.

Referring once again to once the configuration and registration process is completed the wireless communication hub device can be moved to any location that has cellular wireless network connectivity. Different electronic medical or fitness devices may be plugged into the wireless communication hub device . In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may discovery electronic medical or fitness devices plugged into or wirelessly linked to it step . As electronic medical or fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device are identified the wireless communication hub device may identify the electronic medical or fitness devices to the service platform server step such as by transmitting their media access control MAC identifier ID . The service platform server may store the electronic medical or fitness device identifier in data fields associated with the user or the particular wireless communication hub device step . The service platform server may also assign an IPv6 address to each electronic medical or fitness device which also may be stored in the data records of the service platform server .

A further feature that may be included in service platform services involves downloading the driver software appropriate for particular electronic medical and fitness devices to a user s computer . In this service the wireless communication hub device informs the service platform server about the connected electronic medical or fitness devices during the registration and device discovery process described above. The service platform server may be configured to store driver software for most electronic medical or fitness devices available in the marketplace including historical versions of driver software that may be appropriate for older electronic medical or fitness devices. Thus when the wireless communication hub device identifies the connected electronic medical or fitness devices to the service platform such as by providing MAC IDs of each electronic medical or fitness device the service platform server may identify the proper driver software stored in its memory or associated database and download the appropriate drivers to a user s computer when the user accesses the service platform server . This downloading of driver software may be accomplished when the user first registers with the service platform server or associates a computer with the user s account and a particular wireless communication hub device . Also the service platform server may keep a data record of the MAC IDs of the attached peripheral devices and the driver software that has been downloaded to particular user computers . Using such records the service platform server may determine when a user computer requires a new or updated driver and download the appropriate driver software when updates are received or when new electronic medical or fitness devices are connected to the wireless communication hub device . In this manner users computers can be provisioned automatically with the latest driver software required for the electronic medical and fitness devices plugged into the user s wireless communication hub device without having to keep track of the driver software download the drivers themselves or bother with the CDs containing driver software that come with electronic medical or fitness devices. Thus this service platform can help to simplify the user experience of using a variety of electronic medical or fitness devices.

As mentioned above the wireless communication hub device can support local network operations such as when a user wishes to connect the wireless communication hub device to their local network by way of an Ethernet or Wi Fi connection. In such embodiments the user may provide the relevant information to the service platform server e.g. by accessing the service platform server via a web browser which then configures the wireless communication hub device using the entered information. If successful the wireless communication hub device may leverage the local network to access the Internet and gain access to the service platform server without using a cellular network e.g. a 3G cellular data network . If a failure occurs in this registration process the wireless communication hub device may switch back to cellular connectivity and inform the service platform server that the attempt to switch to local connectivity failed. When the wireless communication hub device is connected to a local area network or Wi Fi network locally connected computers may directly access the wireless communication hub device and electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device . In an embodiment this may be accomplished using IPv6 addresses provided by the service platform server . In an embodiment additional computers may connect to the wireless communication hub device provided they have been granted access to the wireless communication hub device by the user who performed the initial setup.

If an electronic medical or fitness device provides data for communication to the service platform server or a user computer such as may occur in response to a data request messages discussed above such data is received by the wireless communication hub device and relayed to the service platform server step . In some cases the wireless communication hub device may encapsulate the device data within IP packets so that the data can be tunneled through the Internet for processing by the service platform server using an appropriate driver software. As described above the data messages may be transmitted to the Internet address of the service platform server via a cellular or local area network connection to the Internet . Electronic medical or fitness device data packets are received by the service platform server processed if necessary and relayed to a user computer if appropriate via the Internet step .

When not actively responding to a data request or relaying data from an electronic medical or fitness device the wireless communication hub device may await messages from the service platform server or a computer coupled to the wireless communication hub device or to a local area network step . To minimize costs associated with maintaining a data connection via a cellular data network the wireless communication hub device may be configured to terminate an active data connection when activity ceases for a predetermined amount of time timeout interval . Thus the processor of the wireless communication hub device may be configured to determine whether the timeout interval has transpired since a last communication event determination . If the timeout interval has not expired i.e. determination No the wireless communication hub device may continue to monitor the open cellular data communication link for messages from the service platform server . Once the timeout interval has expired i.e. determination Yes the wireless communication hub device may terminate the open cellular data communication link and enter a sleep mode step . In embodiments in which the wireless communication hub device is plugged into an inexhaustible power supply such as an AC wall socket the sleep mode may involve terminating the open cellular data communication link but continuing to monitor messages or telephone calls placed to the telephone number of the wireless communication hub device . For example as described more fully below with reference to the wireless communication hub device may be configured to receive a simple message service SMS message during the sleep mode which prompts the wireless communication hub device to place a data call to the service platform server and initiate a new data communication link. In embodiments in which the wireless communication hub device is battery powered the sleep mode may further entail reducing processing performed on the wireless communication hub device in order to economize battery consumption.

As mentioned above the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server may be configured to communicate data in a format that does not require the wireless communication hub device processor to run a device driver for any electronic medical and fitness device. illustrates an example method for tunneling data and commands to and from electronic medical and fitness devices via the Internet. In the example method a user may access the Internet from any computer such as from a web kiosk computer and access the service platform server at its URL step . After the user is identified and verified to the service platform server service platform server may generate a webpage listing a menu of electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device step . The user may then request access to a particular electronic medical and fitness device e.g. such as a webcam to check on the user s house step . This request may be accomplished for example by the user selecting an electronic medical or fitness device hyperlink e.g. a webcam hyperlink on the menu list of available electronic medical and fitness devices listed in a webpage generated by the service platform server . For example hyperlinks may be configured so that double clicking on a webcam hyperlink in the electronic medical and fitness device menu may transmit a device access request to the service platform server or transmit a code that the service platform server will recognize as such.

In response to receiving a device or data access request from a user the service platform server may transmit a suitable request message to the wireless communication hub device to obtain the access or data requested by the user step . Upon receiving this request the wireless communication hub device may query the indicated electronic medical or fitness device for the requested data step . In response the queried electronic medical or fitness device may begin providing the requested data in its native format i.e. in a format that requires a device driver to receive step . For example if the request is for images from an electronic medical or fitness device e.g. a webcam or blood pressure monitor the wireless communication hub device may signal the electronic medical or fitness device e.g. a webcam or blood pressure monitor to activate and begin transmitting image data to the wireless communication hub device . In this embodiment the wireless communication hub device receives the native format electronic medical or fitness device data and packages the data into IP packets that can be tunneled via the Internet to the service platform server step . Methods and protocols for tunneling data via the Internet are well known in the computer communication arts.

The service platform server may receive message packets from the wireless communication hub device unpack the electronic medical or fitness device data from the tunneling IP packets and use the appropriate driver software to process the received electronic medical or fitness device data step . The service platform server may then transmit the requested data on to the requester s computer via the Internet using standard IP formats such as in the form of a webpage or video feed step . Thus in the example of a user requesting access to video images from a webcam coupled to the wireless communication hub device the user may receive a video feed presented on a web browser without having to load the webcam driver software onto the computer .

The tunneling of data and commands may also proceed from a user s computer via the service platform server to the wireless communication hub device . For example a user may be able to operate or configure an electronic medical and fitness device from a web kiosk computer i.e. a computer that does not is not equipped with the appropriate device driver using the service platform services. illustrates an embodiment method for tunneling command messages to an electronic medical and fitness device via the wireless communication hub device similar to method described above with reference to except the data and commands may proceed from a user s computer . As described above at block a user may access the Internet from any computer such as from a web kiosk computer and access the service platform server at its URL. After the user is identified and verified to the service platform server as described above at block the service platform server may generate a webpage listing a menu of electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device . As described above at block the user may then request access to a particular electronic medical and fitness device e.g. such as a security system to remotely set a particular alarm state . This request may be accomplished by the user selecting a hyperlink on the menu list of available electronic medical and fitness devices listed in a webpage generated by the service platform server . For example double clicking on a security system hyperlink in the electronic medical and fitness device menu may be configured as a device access request that is transmitted to the service platform server . If the selected device will accept user commands the service platform server may transmit a webpage presenting a menu of the commands available for the selected electronic medical and fitness device step . The user may select a particular command such as by clicking on a hyperlink associated with the command description the user can signal the service platform server to send the corresponding command to the selected electronic medical and fitness device via the wireless communication hub device . Upon receiving such a command request step the service platform server may format the requested command using the appropriate device driver software step and encapsulate the command within IP message packets so that it will be tunneled through the Internet to the wireless communication hub device step . Upon receiving such IP packets the wireless communication hub device unpacks the command data and transmits the command packets to the addressed electronic medical and fitness device step . The electronic medical and fitness device receives and executes the command as if it had been provided directly by a computer linked to the device and configured with the appropriate device driver step .

Example message flows the may be implemented in the various embodiment methods are illustrative in . Referring to when the wireless communication hub device is activated such as when it is plugged into a wall socket and the user presses the initiation button the device may exchange the network signaling messages necessary to establish a cellular data communication link with a cellular wireless network . Once connected to the cellular wireless network the wireless communication hub device may establish a data call to the service platform server and transmit the device s identifier message . As described above the wireless communication hub device may signal to a user when a connection is made to the service platform server such as by displaying a steady yellow light at which point the user may log into the service platform server via the Internet and enter registration information e.g. as the six digit number on the housing of the wireless communication hub device message . Once the wireless communication hub device is registered with the service platform server it may discover the electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to it such as by transmitting device discovery messages and receiving device reply messages . Device discovery and reply message formats are well established in networking protocols such as the Bluetooth protocol. As the wireless communication hub device identifies attached electronic medical and fitness devices it may transmit information regarding them such as their MAC ID to the service platform server message .

Once the registration process is completed a user may access an electronic medical and fitness device from a computer by logging on to the service platform server . As discussed above the service platform server may send a webpage to the browser of the user s computer presenting a menu of electronic medical and fitness devices that may be accessed message . Using such a menu or a direct command the user may request access to a particular electronic medical and fitness device by sending an access request message to the service platform server via the Internet . In response to receiving this message the service platform server may transmit an appropriate data request message over the open data communication link with the wireless communication hub device via the Internet and the cellular wireless network . The wireless communication hub device relays the data request message to the selected electronic medical and fitness device . Data generated in response to the request may be transmitted from the electronic medical and fitness device to the wireless communication hub device via the established cable or wireless communication link message . The wireless communication hub device then relays the data such as in an encapsulated IP packet to the service platform server over the open data communication link via the cellular wireless network and the Internet message . The service platform server may unpack the device data and process it using the appropriate device driver software processing and forward the data on to the requesting computer via the Internet message .

As mentioned above other data users such as medical establishments or device manufacturers may request data from electronic medical and fitness devices coupled to the wireless communication hub device . To do so a third party server controlled by the data user may transmit a data request message via the Internet to the service platform server message . If the service platform server does not have the requested data in memory it may transmit a data request message to the wireless communication hub device . The wireless communication hub device relays the data request message to the selected electronic medical and fitness device . Data generated in response to the request may be transmitted from the electronic medical and fitness device to the wireless communication hub device via the established cable or wireless communication link message . The wireless communication hub device then relays the data such as in an encapsulated IP packet to the service platform server over the open data communication link via the cellular wireless network and the Internet message . The service platform server may unpack the device data and process it using the appropriate device driver software optional processing and forward the data on to the requesting server via the Internet message . In situations where the service platform server does not possess the device driver for the particular electronic medical and fitness device such as when the data requester controls device drivers the service platform server may simply relay the encapsulated device data without processing.

The service platform services may be configured to deliver data generated by an electronic medical and fitness device without receiving a data request message. For example a electronic medical and fitness device such as a home security system may generate a data message that is transmitted to the wireless communication hub device by an establish communication link e.g. a USB or FireWire cable or local wireless communication link . In response to receiving such a data message the wireless communication hub device may place a data call to the service platform server and transmit the data via the cellular wireless network and the Internet message . The service platform server may unpack the device data and process it using the appropriate device driver software optional processing and forward the data on to the appropriate destination computer such as a third party server via the Internet in message or to a user computer via the Internet in message . In situations where the service platform server does not possess the device driver for the particular electronic medical and fitness device such as when the data generating electronic medical and fitness device is controlled by the manufacturer the service platform server may simply relayed the encapsulated device data without processing.

As mentioned above the wireless communication hub device may also be configured to communicate with the service platform server via a connection to the Internet through a local wireless router. Example messages that may be transmitted among various components in such a communication system are illustrated in . For example during the registration and configuration process described above with reference to the wireless communication hub device may discover that it can gain access to the Internet via a wireless router. In that case the wireless communication hub device may establish a wireless communication link with the router in an exchange of messages as provided for in the wireless protocol implemented by the router. Once connected to the router the wireless communication hub device may transmit its identification number e.g. a unique six digit to the service platform server via the wireless router message which may relay the message via the Internet message . Similarly the wireless communication hub device may transmit information about attached electronic medical and fitness devices in a wireless message to the wireless router which may relay the message via the Internet to the service platform server message . Other like numbered messages may be exchanged in the manner described above with reference to .

In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured to send and receive messages via a cellular communication network.

As described above the wireless communication hub device may be configured to enter an idle or sleep mode when there are no active interactions with electronic medical and fitness devices or with the service platform server . The purpose of such a sleep mode may be to minimize the operating cost of the wireless communication hub device such as by minimizing cellular wireless network access charges when no active data communications are taking place. In such an implementation the service platform server may be configured to send a message to the wireless communication hub device to wake it up when there is a need to communicate with the electronic medical and fitness devices. An example method for accomplishing this is illustrated in and example messages that may be exchanged in the process are illustrated in .

Referring to for steps and B for messages when the service platform server receives a request for data or access to a particular electronic medical and fitness device coupled to a wireless communication hub device step and messages the service platform server may transmit a wake up message to the wireless communication hub device step . Such a wake up message may be transmitted as an SMS message which may be sent by conventional means to the cellular wireless network message which may deliver the message like a conventional SMS message message . Such an SMS message may be addressed to a telephone number assigned to the wireless communication hub device and include data or codes which the wireless communication hub device can recognize as constituting a wake up message. In an embodiment reception of an SMS without any message payload i.e. no included data or codes may prompt the wireless communication hub device to wake up. Alternatively the service platform server may send a paging type message to the wireless communication hub device which may be configured with a paging receiver.

When the wireless communication hub device receives the SMS or page message step the device processor may parse the received message to determine whether it includes a code indicating that the wireless communication hub device should wake up determination . If the received message does not include the appropriate wakeup code i.e. determination No the processor may simply ignore the received message step . This test of the received code can guard against inadvertent activations of the wireless communication hub device such as when a message is improperly routed or a wrong number is dialed.

If the processor determines that the received message includes the appropriate wakeup code i.e. determination Yes and in embodiments in which the device is configured to wake up in response to receiving a payload less SMS message the wireless communication hub device may activate its cellular transceiver to exchange the network signaling messages necessary to establish a cellular data communication link with a cellular wireless network . If a local wireless router with access to the Internet is available the wireless communication hub device may negotiate a communication link with the wireless router instead. Once connected to the cellular wireless network or a local wireless router the wireless communication hub device may place a data call to the service platform server step . When a connection to the service platform server is established or as part of establishing the connection the wireless communication hub device may provide its unique identifier to the server thereby identifying itself step and message . With a communication link established between the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server the server and devices may proceed with communications as described above with reference to A B and A step .

Additional methods for activating a computing device such as the wireless communication hub device are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 430 642 entitled Apparatus and Method for Activating Computer Applications with SMS Messaging filed Apr. 27 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

A wireless communication hub device that is in a deactivated low power idle or sleep mode may also be activated in response to receiving a data message from a connected electronic medical and fitness device. illustrates an example method for communicating data to data users initiated by a electronic medical and fitness device data push. Example messages that may be passed among system components in method are illustrated in . Referring to for steps and B for messages when an electronic medical and fitness device determines that it has data that should be transmitted to an appropriate data user e.g. a medical facility a device manufacturer a user etc. it may transmit the data to the wireless communication hub device via the established communication connection. Upon receiving the data message the wireless communication hub device may recognize the particular electronic medical and fitness device providing the data. This may be accomplished based upon the particular communication port through which the data signal was received or information provided with the data message such as a device identifier. As part of this step the wireless communication hub device processor may obtain the IPv6 address MAC ID or other unique identifier for the reporting electronic medical and fitness device that is known to be service platform server i.e. the identifier that was reported to the server during a registration and configuration process . If a data connection is not already established with a cellular wireless network the wireless communication hub device may activate the cellular transceiver and exchange the network signaling messages necessary to establish a cellular data communication link with the cellular wireless network . If a local wireless router with access to the Internet is available the wireless communication hub device may negotiate a communication link with the wireless router instead. Once connected to the cellular wireless network or a local wireless router the wireless communication hub device may place a data call to the service platform server . When a connection to the service platform server is established or as part of establishing the connection the wireless communication hub device may provide its unique identifier to the server thereby identifying itself step . Once the wireless communication hub device has registered with the service platform server it may transmit the data received from the electronic medical and fitness device . The data message also includes the identifier for the device providing the data. The service platform server may use the electronic medical and fitness device identifier to determine the appropriate processing and destination for the data. If the data is to be transmitted immediately to another destination such as a medical or device manufacturer server the service platform server may contact the appropriate server and negotiate an appropriate encrypted communication link via the Internet . Once an appropriate communication link is established the service platform server may transmit the received device data to the destination server via the Internet . The destination server receiving the data may then process or use the data for other purposes such as transmitting a notification message to the user s personal computer via the Internet .

Referring to for steps and B for messages when an electronic medical or fitness device determines that it has data that should be transmitted to an appropriate data user e.g. a medical facility a device manufacturer a user etc. it may transmit the data to the wireless communication hub device via the established communication connection step and message . Upon receiving the data message the wireless communication hub device may recognize the particular electronic medical or fitness device providing the data step . This may be accomplished based upon the particular communication port through which the data signal was received or information provided with the data message such as an electronic medical or fitness device identifier. As part of this step the wireless communication hub device processor may obtain the IPv6 address MAC ID or other unique identifier for the reporting electronic medical or fitness device that is known to be service platform server i.e. VPH server i.e. the identifier that was reported to the service platform server during a registration and configuration process . If a data connection is not already established with a cellular wireless network the wireless communication hub device may activate the cellular transceiver and exchange the network signaling messages necessary to establish a cellular data communication link with the cellular wireless network . If a local wireless router with access to the Internet is available the wireless communication hub device may negotiate a communication link with the local wireless router instead. Once connected to the cellular wireless network or a local wireless router the wireless communication hub device may place a data call to the service platform server step . When a connection to the service platform server is established or as part of establishing the connection the wireless communication hub device may provide its unique identifier to the service platform server thereby identifying itself step . Once the wireless communication hub device has registered with the service platform server it may transmit the data received from the electronic medical or fitness device step and message . The data message transmitted in step and message also includes the identifier for the electronic medical or fitness device providing the data. The service platform server may use the electronic medical or fitness device identifier to determine the appropriate processing and destination for the data step and processing . If the data is to be transmitted immediately to another destination such as a medical or device manufacturer server the service platform server may contact the appropriate server and negotiate an appropriate encrypted communication link via the Internet step . Once an appropriate communication link is established the service platform server may transmit the received device data to the destination server via the Internet step and message . The server receiving the data may then process or use the data for other purposes such as transmitting a notification message to the user s personal computer via the Internet message .

As noted above the service platform services may be two way enabling data users to also transmit commands or messages back through the wireless communication hub device to selected electronic medical or fitness devices. This may involve a data user server transmitting a message addressed to a particular electronic medical or fitness device to the service platform server which receives the message via the Internet step . The service platform server re addresses the message to the particular electronic medical or fitness device IPv6 address step and transmits the message to the wireless communication hub device via the Internet step and message . The wireless communication hub device receives the messages and relays them onto the addressed the electronic medical or fitness device step and message . The addressed electronic medical or fitness device then processes or displays the message step .

A practical implementation example may clarify the processing described above with reference to . Since sudden weight gain can be an indicator of some serious medical conditions providing such information to a medical facility may be useful for advising patients when they need to take medication or see a doctor immediately. To enable such early warning with minimal effort by patients an electronic bathroom scale may be configured as an electronic medical or fitness device with a wireless or wired transceiver that couples to a wireless communication hub device to transmit weight readings whenever a user starts on the scale. The scale the wireless communication hub device and or the service platform server may be configured e.g. as part of a registration process to promptly forward scale readings to a medical facility server that is tracking a patient s weight. When a user steps on the scale the weight reading may be automatically transmitted to a destination server that can process the information without any action or involvement on the part of the user. If the medical facility server detects a sudden change in weight that may indicate a condition requiring a medical intervention e.g. taking a medication or visiting a doctor the server may transmit a message to be displayed on an appropriate electronic medical or fitness device e.g. the weight scale that the user is likely to see. Thus the medical facility server may transmit a message using the service platform services so that it is receives by an electronic medical or fitness device such as an LCD display a digital picture frame or other device with a display informing the user to take the proper precautions.

Another example of useful applications of service platform services is the automatic distribution of digital camera images as illustrated in . A common problem faced by owners of digital cameras is the efficient distribution of their photos to their friends and family. A recent innovation that is useful in this regard is a digital photo frame which includes a LCD display coupled to memory for storing digital photos. Some digital photo frames are equipped to connect to a network so that downloading images can be accomplished very simply. However many of the potential purchasers of digital photo frames may lack the technical savvy to install a home network and couple it to a digital photo frame. The wireless communication hub device and the associated service platform services may rectify the challenges of connecting a digital photo frame to the Internet so that users may easily receive photos from their friends and family without having to become masters of computer networking technologies.

Referring to for steps and D for messages a user who has taken photographs may link their digital camera to a wireless communication hub device such as by means of a USB cable FireWire cable or a local wireless connection e.g. a Bluetooth wireless link step . Once connected the wireless communication hub device may receive a photo file from the camera e.g. that has been designated for sharing step and message . The wireless communication hub device may establish a link to the service platform server and transmit the received photo file step and message . The service platform server may be configured e.g. by user preference settings established in an online session to forward photo files to a particular destination such as an IPv6 address of a digital photo frame . Thus the service platform server may use the identifier for the wireless communication hub device to look up the appropriate destination for a received photo file e.g. the IPv6 address of the digital photo frame step and transmit the photo file via the Internet to the wireless communication hub device coupled to the digital photo frame i.e. the destination peripheral device step and message . The receiving wireless communication hub device relays the received photo file to the destination digital photo frame step and message and the digital photo frame may display the photo step .

The service platform server may implement well known data structures in order to support the service platform services of the various embodiments an example of which is shown in . For example the service platform server may maintain a database of user accounts which the service platform server may use to associate particular users with particular wireless communication hub devices and connected peripheral devices. Such a data structure may comprise a plurality of data records shown as rows each comprising a plurality of data fields . For example a data field may be provided for storing the unique identifier for the wireless communication hub devices and a data field may be provided for storing a user identifier e.g. a user account number or user name . The data structure may also include a data field for storing an IP address that the service platform server may use to send messages to the wireless communication hub device via the Internet . Further the data structure may include a plurality of data fields for each peripheral device plugged into the wireless communication hub device including such information as a device IPv6 address data field a device ID data field one or more data fields for storing device data data field and a URL or other type of address to which data received from a device should be forwarded data field . Using such a data table a service platform server receiving a message including a wireless communication hub device identifier can quickly locate the data record associated with a particular device and thereby determine the associated user and its connected peripheral devices. Similarly a service platform server accessed via the Internet by a user providing a user name or user account number can quickly locate the data record associated with the user and thereby may determine the associated wireless communication hub device its address and the peripheral devices plugged into it.

The wireless communication hub device may also be configured with memory for storing peripheral device data in a data structure . The wireless communication hub device may use such a data structure to determine whether to report received device data promptly or to store the data temporarily for later forwarding to the service platform server . For example the data structure may include a data record for each peripheral device plugged into the wireless communication hub device with each data record comprising a plurality of data fields . For example the data structure may include a data field for storing the peripheral device identifier e.g. MAC ID a data field for storing information regarding the communication port coupled to that particular peripheral device a data field for storing an IPv6 address assigned to the peripheral device a data field for storing information regarding how the wireless communication hub device should treat the data e.g. whether to promptly report received data or not a data field for storing the date and time of the last data received from the device a data field for storing the last time that data from the peripheral device was transmitted to the service platform server and one or more data fields for storing data received from the peripheral device. Using such a data structure the wireless communication hub device can be configured to support a wide variety of data management services for connected peripheral devices.

Another service enabled by the wireless communication hub device is the ability to power up peripheral devices only when accessed. An embodiment method for enabling this is illustrated in . In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured with an idle shutdown timer. In block the wireless communication hub device processor may complete interaction with a peripheral device and start the shutdown timer. In determination block the wireless communication hub device processor may monitor the shutdown timer to determine whether the timer has expired. If another interaction with that peripheral device is accomplished before the countdown timer has expires i.e. determination block No the countdown timer may be restarted by returning to step . If the countdown timer expires i.e. determination Yes in block the wireless communication hub device processor may transmit a signal to the peripheral device commanding it to power down. Powering down the peripheral device may allow it to conserve battery power or device lifetime while not in use. In block the wireless communication hub device processor may receive a request for data from or a request for access to that peripheral device. In block the wireless communication hub device processor may transmit a signal to that peripheral device commanding it to power up. Once the interaction with that peripheral device is completed the shutdown timer may be restarted in block .

The wireless communication hub device and the service platform services may enable a large number of server based operations of potential value to consumers and businesses. Since the wireless communication hub device provides simple access to a variety of peripheral devices without requiring installation of servers and Internet access routers data from a wide range of electronic devices may be made available to establishments and businesses that can benefit from such data. In an embodiment the use of the intermediate service platform server may enable batched or server initiated operations. Such services and operations may take the form of add on services that may access the peripheral devices for context sensitive operations. An example may be security monitoring via webcams where the webcam is awakened so that small clips or snapshots may be taken and transmitted to the service platform server for later retrieval. Another example involves monitoring content sites and downloading specific content to mass storage. Another example includes batch uploads from connected non network enabled devices such as digital cameras. A further example is server initiated uploads from automotive diagnostic systems.

An example method which may be implemented by the service platform server to provide such server based services is illustrated in . In block periodically the service platform server may establish a communication link to a wireless communication hub device using the methods described above. In block once a communication link is established the service platform server may send messages to the wireless communication hub device to poll the connected peripheral devices and receive their data as described above. In block the service platform server may then use the received device data to update a database and in block may publish this database of device data to individual servers subscribing to the data. Subscribers to the peripheral device data e.g. security services companies hospitals device manufacturers automobile maintenance companies etc. may subscribe to just the data that is of interest to them. In block the service platform server may provide data subscribers access to the peripheral devices if needed as the service platform server can function as a portal to peripheral devices via the registered wireless communication hub device .

The various embodiments may enable a number of useful applications some examples of which are described below. The wireless communication hub device and service platform server may provide web access to a user s peripheral devices from any computer with Internet access. In such applications the service platform server may act as the computer connected to the peripheral devices and provide access to the device data and commands via a web browser. For example a peripheral device may be a remote hard drive e.g. a USB hard drive coupled to the wireless communication hub device with a USB cable in which case the service platform services may enable a user to browse and access content on the remote hard drive from any web browser. Another example may involve viewing images from webcams connected to the wireless communication hub device . Another example may involve accessing the results of peripheral device operations conducted offline from any web browser. In a further example the service platform server may be configured to host e mail accounts where the actual data is stored on a remote hard drive coupled to a wireless communication hub device . This application may allow users to maintain complete control over their personal email data while the e mail service functions as if the e mail message data were hosted on a server.

The service platform services may also be used to quickly enable remote access to mass storage devices. As an example a mass storage device may be plugged into a wireless communication hub device so that users may access the data stored on the storage device via the service platform server . This may not only provide data security but may also allow the users to share data across groups or access the data from any web browser.

Another example service platform service may involve providing remote vehicle diagnostics by plugging a wireless communication hub device into a vehicle diagnostic port via a special USB cable. A wireless communication hub device connected to this USB cable may allow remote and active diagnosis and monitoring of vehicles with no further investment in infrastructure or electronics since the service platform services utilize the infrastructure of cellular telephone networks and the Internet. As mentioned above such services could extend to providing emergency communication services.

Another example provided service platform service may be to provision X10 home control systems for consumers. The X10 protocol enables devices to communicate via the home electrical wiring and has been used for controlling household appliances setting up security systems and the like. As an example the wireless communication hub device may be configured to communicate with other X10 system components such as via the electrical wiring into which it is plugged and relay configuration instructions received from the service platform server to the other X10 devices. This may simplify the set up and configuration of such home control systems by relieving the user of the many of the tasks associated with establishing an X10 control system beyond plugging devices into electrical sockets.

In a further embodiment the wireless communication hub device and the service platform server may provide home automation and control capabilities without the need for a dedicated automation system. As an example devices and household systems to be controlled may be plugged into the wireless communication hub device either directly or via wireless networks e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. such that the devices and household system functions may be controlled by the service platform server or computers accessing the service platform server . For example one of the service platform services may be home control capabilities providing a server hosted control system that users may configure by accessing the service platform server via a computer. Once the home automation control settings are entered by a user the service platform server may send commands via the wireless communication hub device as needed to control the devices and household systems plugged into the wireless communication hub device . In this manner a low cost highly configurable home automation system may be provided based around one or more wireless communication hub devices positioned within the home.

While the various embodiments have been described with reference to a standalone wireless communication hub device the functionalities of the wireless communication hub device described above may also be implemented in other communication devices equipped with a processor that may perform the wireless communication hub device functionality and a transceiver for coupling to a wireless network such as a cellular data network . For example the wireless communication hub device functionality may be implemented as a wireless communication hub device application running on a cellular telephone. Many cellular telephones include programmable processors that may be configured with a wireless communication hub device application as well as multiple wireless transceivers that may be used to establish communication links with electronic medical and fitness devices and or other peripheral devices. Also some cellular telephones include wired connection ports such as USB or FireWire ports that may be coupled to peripheral devices. To implement the wireless communication hub device functionality in a mobile device for example a wireless communication hub device application may be implemented in the device processor and the device processor may then perform the various embodiment connection and communication functions described above.

As mentioned above the wireless communication hub device user interface may be as simple as one two or a few LEDs or other form of lights. In an embodiment the wireless communication hub device may be configured with circuitry for controlling the one two or a few LEDs in a manner that minimizes the number of processor pins dedicated to the LEDs. In an embodiment the input lines connected to the processor of the communication hub device to generate pulse width modulated signals may be fewer in number than a total number of the different light emitting diode elements to be controlled by the wireless communication hub device .

Three color i.e. red green and blue LED complexes i.e. 3 elements per LED complex a red LED a green LED and a blue LED may be enabled to display millions of different colors by varying the intensity of the light coming from each of the three elements. For example the color yellow may be generated by turning on the green LED and operating the red LED at approximately one quarter of the intensity of the green LED. This may be achieved by flashing the green LED and red LED very rapidly e.g. greater than 24 flashes per second and varying the length of time each LED is turned on i.e. the duty cycle during each of the flashes. illustrates example waveforms for generating a brown color with a three color LED complex. Waveform illustrates the waveform applied to the red LED waveform illustrates the waveform applied to the green LED and waveform illustrates the waveform applied to the blue LED.

In order to provide color from a red green blue multi element LED it may be necessary to have fine control over the intensity of each element to provide the full color range. In other control systems the control may be achieved using a pulse width modulator for each LED element. Therefore it may take 6 PWM signals to control two LED RGB complexes i.e. 3 elements per each LED to generate the full range of color.

In an embodiment the required signals to control two LED RGB complexes i.e. two LEDs each with their own respective red element green element and blue element may be reduce to 4 signals. This technique although described for the case of 6 LED elements may be extended to any number of LED elements with similar results. As an example 7 pulse width modulated signals may be used to drive 12 LED elements. In an embodiment the individual signals may be generated by pulse width modulator circuits that may be available on the processor of the wireless communication hub device . The use of pulse width modulator circuits may be advantageous because the pulse width modulator circuits may enable the period duty cycle and phase for each circuit to be set and once set the processor may continually generate the set pattern without requiring further software interactions thereby conserving processor resources and or improving response time.

In an embodiment to control elements with reduced signals the control of position or phase and duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signals may be used. In general each element s intensity may be independently adjusted. Ideally each element s intensity may be independently controlled to output between 0 and 100 light output. and illustrate embodiment circuits that may enable independent control of the output of each element s intensity between 0 and 100 light output. In an embodiment the intensity of no element may ever be set to 100 duty cycle. In such a configuration 100 light output may be when the LED is running at 50 . By increasing the current the average light output as seen by the human eye may still be the maximum and perceived at 100 . In an embodiment the position or phase and duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signals may control the color of light output by the LED and different pulse width modulated signals may be generated to adjust the color of light output by the LED s .

Referring to a the method for delivering current to two different three element LEDs and may be implemented by high side and low side switching controlled by pulse width modulated signals. When current is delivered light is produced by the LEDs and . Therefore in this embodiment two LEDs and may be controlled as left and right respectively so the terminology would be left.blue left.red left.green right.blue right.red right.green etc. The high side of the left LED may be controlled by left high side switch which is coupled to each element i.e. red green and blue of LED . The high side of the right LED may be controlled by the right high side switch which is coupled to each element i.e. red green and blue of LED . The low side of the red elements of LEDs and may be controlled by a red low switch . The low side of the green elements of LEDs and may be controlled by a green low switch . The low side of the blue elements of LEDs and may be controlled by a blue low switch . As an example control for the blue element of LED may be further described as blue.low meaning that the blue low side switch is engaged allowing current to flow and left.high which means that left high side switch is engaged and current is being supplied to the blue element of left side LED . Similar descriptions may be applied to the right side. In an embodiment the high side current may be provided to the left high side switch through a transistor and the high side current may be provided to the right high side switch through two transistors and . In an embodiment the transistor may operate as a switch to invert the current provided to the right high side switch . In this manner the left high side switch and right high side switch may receive mirror image waveforms from the high input. In an embodiment the pulse width modulated signals generated by the processor of the wireless communication hub device may control the activation and deactivation of switches and and thus control the current provided to the elements of the left side LED and or right side LED . shows an implementation as it is described. shows a logical description of the system according to an embodiment. In an embodiment the phase and or duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signal generated on the low side red signal line relative to the phase and or duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signal generated on the high side signal line may control the intensity of the red element of the left LED and the red element of the right LED by controlling the operation of switches and . In an embodiment the phase and or duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signal generated on the low side green signal line relative to the phase and or duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signal generated on the high side signal line may control the intensity of the green element of the left LED and the green element of the right LED by controlling the operation of switches and . In an embodiment the phase and or duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signal generated on the low side blue signal line relative to the phase and or duty cycle of the pulse width modulated signal generated on the high side signal line may control the intensity of the blue element of the left LED and the blue element of the right LED by controlling the operation of switches and .

The following scenarios describe examples of various modes methods that may be used to accommodate the requirements signal information to the user etc. First is a scenario whereby left and right elements are both enabled to some degree. Second is a scenario whereby the left element is enabled somewhat but right is completely off. Third is a scenario whereby left.blue and left.green are enabled somewhat and right.blue and right.red are enabled somewhat while right.green is completely deactivated.

Using a combination of the above scenarios the system may accommodate any color from either of the LED complexes as required. describes the logical implementation of the system to be used as an example. demonstrates scenario demonstrates scenario and demonstrates scenario . illustrates the waveforms and for driving the two LEDs and using four PWM control signals PWM High PWM Red PWM Green and PWM Blue . The left waveform and the right waveform may be derived from a single PWM PWM High by a connecting one signal to a transistor inverter for example transistor discussed above with reference to . illustrates that in an embodiment the timing signals may be rearranged to enable Red Green and Blue waveforms and respectively to be generated continuously by pulse width modulator circuits. The timing of the waveforms and may be adjusted so that the active portion i.e. ON of the waveforms coincides with end of the left waveform s active period i.e. ON . The right LED s Red Green and Blue waveforms may be left in the same relative position. This may cause the end of the active portion of the left LED waveforms to abut the beginning of the right LED s waveforms. The pulse width modulator circuits may be programmed to generate the repeating pattern as illustrated in . In this manner any desired color may be programmed independently for each LED using only four PWM signals.

In an embodiment once the PWM system is programmed it may be free running without software intervention until an eye perceivable event is needed. The eye perceivable event may be a color change an intensity change or a combination of the two. In an embodiment the software may copy programming values for the pulse width modulating structure e.g. a controller for the next state i.e. next perceived state and write the values to the various registers comprising the control registers for the pulse width modulation sub system. In an alternate embodiment the values may be calculated each time a change is required and then written to the registers. In this manner a very complex color and intensity schema may be implemented with very low system processor involvement.

In an alternative embodiment rather than splitting the high side pulse width modulated signal and inverting the pulse width modulated signal with transistor to control switch the extra transistor may be avoided by providing a second high side pulse width modulated signal to control the operation of switch . In this manner one high side pulse width modulated signal may control the operation of switch a second high side pulse width modulated signal may control the operation of switch . In an embodiment the second high side pulse width modulated signal provided to switch may be generated to be the exact inversion of the first high side pulse width modulated signal provided to the switch .

Using the circuitry and control methods described above the wireless communication hub device may be controlled by software executing on the wireless communication hub device and or remotely through the service platform server to provide a steady state ON mode a flashing mode combinations of steady ON and periodic flashing high intensity brightness low intensity brightness various colors e.g. blue to indicate one thing and red to indicate another and combinations of any of these conditions or displays. The various lights and light panels that may be included in the wireless communication hub device may be controlled by software to communicate a variety of different types of information including for example reminders e.g. to take a pill or to purchase more medications an alert e.g. regarding status of the device or to draw attention to an event or operating state and or a confirmation e.g. confirmation that a message has been sent that the wireless communication hub device is coupled and communicating with medical devices or that a remote server has been linked to the wireless communication hub device .

The reminders that may be communicated by the lights or light panel may also be multifaceted such as to provide reminders to take a pill reminders to take a measurement or administer a test e.g. with a glucometer reminders to order new medications etc. Similarly the alerts provided by the lights or light panel may be multifaceted such as alerts to contact the user s physician that a medical device reading raises concern or requires attention that a system problem exists that a coupled device requires servicing or new batteries etc.

Additionally one or more of the lights or light panel may function as a night light which may be activated by the user by an internal clock and or a coupled device. Further as mentioned above any of the various operating modes of the lights and or light panel may be controlled remotely such as through the service platform server so that reminders alerts confirmations and or activation of the night light may be initiated remotely e.g. by a server a physician a pharmacy a caregiver etc. .

As an example upon successful delivery of medical data from the wireless communication hub device to the service platform server an indication may be sent from the service platform server to the wireless communication hub device and in response the wireless communication hub device may flash a blue light a few times to indicate to the end user that their medical data has been successfully received by the service platform server and lined up for ultimate delivery to the final destination e.g. a health care provider service provider etc. .

As another example upon plugging in the wireless communication hub device to an electrical socket and successful boot up of the wireless communication hub device a light may be flashed to give an indication of the status of the wireless communication hub device s short range radios. As a further example a yellow light illuminated on the wireless communication hub device may indicate that the wireless communication hub device may be enabled to receive data from a previously paired electronic medical and fitness device and the light being off may indicate that the wireless communication hub device may be able to be paired with a new electronic medical and fitness device.

In one or more exemplary aspects a processor executing the embodiment methods described herein may be a pulse width modulation peripheral machine that can be configured with configuration settings or configuration instructions.

The embodiments described above may be implemented with any of a variety of server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive and or a compact disc CD drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with network circuits such as the Internet.

A mobile device implementing the hub functionality may have in common the components illustrated in . For example an exemplary mobile device may include a processor coupled to internal memory and a display . Additionally the mobile device may have an antenna for sending and receiving electromagnetic radiation that is connected to a wireless data link and or cellular telephone transceiver coupled to the processor . The mobile device may also include a second transceiver for connecting to one or more local wireless networks such as a Bluetooth transceiver for connecting to peripheral devices via blue tooth wireless connections and or a Wi Fi transceiver for coupling to computers and peripheral devices via a local area wireless network. The mobile device may also include a USB or FireWire port for connecting to peripheral devices via a USB or FireWire cable. Mobile devices typically also include a key pad or miniature keyboard and menu selection buttons or rocker switches for receiving user inputs.

Various functional modules that may be implemented within a virtual electronic medical and fitness device hub system as software modules hardware components or combinations of hardware and software modules. A wireless communication hub system may include executive functions implemented in a processor which oversee the overall processes and coordinate the other modules. A communication module may include the transceivers and software for operating the transceivers as well as coordinating communication functions with the executive functions. The communication module may include the processing necessary to comply with various communication protocols as well as negotiating communication links verifying data transmissions and performing the other common functionality of digital communication systems. A bridging logic module may also be coupled to the executive functions and configured to perform the processes associated with providing a communication link between electronic medical and fitness devices and an external computer such as the service platform server. The bridging logic module may include the logic to package data received from electronic medical and fitness devices into IP packets for tunneling to the service platform server for example. Similarly the bridging logic module may include the logic to unpack command packets received from the service platform server and provide the embedded commands to the appropriate electronic medical and fitness device.

In various embodiments the virtual electronic medical and fitness device hub system may include additional modules such as router logic to enable the device to perform typical processes of a conventional router. Also the virtual electronic medical and fitness device hub system may include server logic to enable the device to perform typical processes of a server. Further embodiments of the virtual electronic medical and fitness device hub system may include memory and store and forward logic for receiving and storing data from electronic medical and fitness devices and relaying that data at a later time to a destination computer. Router server and store and forward processes and logic are well known in the computer arts.

The processors in the various devices may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described herein. In some devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory before they are accessed and loaded into the processor or . In some mobile devices the processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In some devices the secure memory may be in a separate memory chip coupled to the processor . In many devices the internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to all memory accessible by the processor including internal memory removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor itself.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function. As an example a processor executing the embodiment methods described herein may be a pulse width modulation peripheral machine that can be configured with configuration settings or configuration instructions.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium or non transitory processor readable medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. Non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage media may be any storage media that may be accessed by a computer or a processor. By way of example but not limitation such non transitory computer readable or processor readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of non transitory computer readable and processor readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the following claims and the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

