---

title: System and method for forming automatically launching user set default app from smartphone
abstract: A system is disclosed for automatically restarting an application running on a smartphone present in a predetermined environment, after the application has been paused. A hardware interconnect apparatus may be configured to establish a first communications link with the smartphone, and also to establish a second communications link with an electronic device present at the predetermined environment. A processor executable auto launch application may be adapted to run on the smartphone to detect when a previously selected application has been at least one of stopped or paused, and to automatically re-start the previously selected application without a command being physically entered on the smartphone by a user of the smartphone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805351&OS=08805351&RS=08805351
owner: Myine Electronics, Inc.
number: 08805351
owner_city: Ferndale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 550 090 filed on Oct. 21 2011. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to smartphones applications and more particularly to a system and method for automatically starting a user set default application on a smartphone through the use of a hardware interconnect apparatus and an automatic launcher program that wirelessly interfaces the user s smartphone to another subsystem and automatically launches a default application when the user enters the vehicle and starts it.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

Smartphones are exploding in popularity as are the number of applications that are available to run on smartphones. Many such applications are helpful to use in connection with other subsystems. As one example some applications are helpful to use in connection with a radio system of a user s motor vehicle such as a car or truck. Such applications may involve obtaining music traffic or weather information for playback over the vehicle s radio system. This may be accomplished by using a hardware interconnect apparatus for example the LIVIO Connect API interconnect apparatus available from Myine Inc. of Ferndale Mich. which creates a wireless communications link between the user s smartphone and the vehicle radio. This is but one example and it will be appreciated that other implementations could be provided. As another example a pair of headphones could be the subsystem that wirelessly interfaces with the smartphone. For convenience the above described implementation of a smartphone being used by a user within a motor vehicle will be used for the remainder of this description to provide a detailed example of how the subject matter of the present disclosure may be implemented.

While the use of a hardware interconnect device and a smartphone within a vehicle can provide a number of useful and convenient application services for the user to use while travelling in the vehicle if the user needs to exit the vehicle for a few minutes while a particular application is running this can cause the application to be paused or temporarily interrupted. When the user gets back into the vehicle and starts it the hardware interconnect apparatus re synchs with the user s smartphone but the previous application that was running on the user s smartphone will be paused. In this case the user will typically be required to access his her smartphone and manually restart the application.

As one can appreciate the need for the user to manually restart a smartphone application that was previously running each time the user re enters his her vehicle after it has been stopped can be of significant inconvenience to the user. For example individuals involved in sales or service activities often spend many hours during the course of a day in their vehicles and must make frequent stops where they leave and then re enter their vehicles a short time later. Each time they re enter their vehicle after a stop typically the default application on his her smartphone will be stopped or paused as a result of the vehicle ignition being turned off . The user then needs to access his her smartphone manually restart the default application. This can be quite an inconvenience especially if one needs to do it several times a day while travelling in his her vehicle.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a system for automatically restarting an application running on a smartphone present in a predetermined environment after the application has been paused. The system may comprise a hardware interconnect apparatus configured to establish a first communications link with the smartphone and a second communications link with an electronic device present at the predetermined environment. A processor executable auto launch application may be included that is adapted to run on the smartphone to detect when a previously selected application has been at least one of stopped or paused and to automatically re start the previously selected application without a command being physically entered on the smartphone by a user of the smartphone.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to a system for automatically restarting an application running on a smartphone present in a vehicle after the application has been one of paused or stopped at a first time when the user leaves the vehicle and re enters the vehicle at a second time subsequent to the first time. The system may comprise a hardware interconnect apparatus configured to transmit a first wireless signal to establish a first wireless communications link with the smartphone and a second signal to establish a second wireless communications link with a radio of the vehicle. A processor executable auto launch application may be included which is adapted to run on the smartphone and to automatically launch a user preselected application. A processor executable watcher service application may also be included which is adapted to run on the smartphone and to monitor for the first wireless communications signal being transmitted from the hardware interconnect apparatus and to assist in establishing the first wireless communications link without intervention by the user. The processor executable auto launch application may further be configured to detect when a previously selected application has been at least one of stopped or paused and to automatically re start the previously selected application without intervention by a user of the smartphone when the smartphone is brought into proximity with the hardware interconnect apparatus.

In still another aspect the present disclosure relates to a smartphone adapted to automatically re start an application running on the smartphone that had been previously interrupted and without intervention or assistance by a user of the smartphone. The smartphone may comprise a hardware interconnect apparatus configured to establish a first wireless communications link with the smartphone and also a second wireless communications link with an electronic device present at the predetermined environment. A processor executable auto launch application may be adapted to run on the smartphone to detect when a previously selected application has been at least one of stopped or paused. The auto launch application may be adapted to automatically re start the previously selected application without a command being physically entered on the smartphone by a user of the smartphone. A processor executable watcher service application may be included which is adapted to run on the smartphone and to monitor for a signal being transmitted from a remote hardware interconnect apparatus. The processor executable watcher service application may be adapted to assist in establishing the first wireless communications link with the remote hardware interconnect apparatus without intervention by the user. The first wireless communications link may enable the re started previously selected application to supply content being received by the smartphone to the remote hardware interconnect apparatus.

In still another aspect the present disclosure may relate to a method for automatically restarting an application running on a smartphone present in a predetermined environment after the application has been paused. The method may comprise using an interconnect apparatus configured to establish a first wireless communications link with the smartphone and to also establish a second wireless communications link with an electronic device present at the predetermined environment. An auto launch application may be used which is adapted to run on the smartphone and to detect when a previously selected application has been at least one of stopped or paused. The auto launch application may automatically re start the previously selected application without a command being physically entered on the smartphone by a user of the smartphone. A watcher application may also be used on the smartphone to inform the smartphone when a signal is detected from the interconnect device. Subsequent to receiving the signal from the interconnect device the first wireless communications link may be established between the interconnect apparatus and the smartphone without user intervention. The first wireless communications link may be used to supply content being received by the smartphone to the interconnect apparatus and from the interconnect apparatus via the second wireless communications link to the electronic device.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that the description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure application or uses. It will be understood that throughout the drawings corresponding reference numerals indicate like or corresponding parts and features.

Referring to there is shown a high level diagram of a hardware interconnect apparatus that may be used in connection with a processor executable automatic application launching API Application Programming Interface in accordance with one embodiment of the present application. For convenience the automatic launching application API will be referred to throughout the following discussion simply as the Auto Launch application . The API may be executed by a processor .

The Auto Launch application is loaded into and stored in non volatile memory not shown of a user s electronic device for example a smartphone . The smartphone may be running either an iOS operating system such as an iPhone smartphone from Apple Inc. hereinafter simply iOS or it may be any type of electronic device running the ANDROID operating system hereinafter simply the Android operating system or Android OS . Both implementations are covered by the present disclosure. For convenience the device will be referred to as the smartphone throughout the following discussion although it will be appreciated that any other type of device capable of running the iOS operating system or the Android operating system could potentially be used. The OS of the smartphone is designated by reference number . A processor executable watcher service software routine hereinafter watcher service may also run on the processor or even on a different processor not shown . The watcher service may form an extension of the Auto Launch application and is thus also stored on the smartphone . In one embodiment the watcher service watches for signals from any short range wireless protocol enabled device. In one implementation the BLUETOOTH wireless communications protocol is used in connection with the smartphone and the hardware interconnect apparatus and as such the smartphone in this example forms a Bluetooth protocol enabled device. For convenience the BLUETOOTH communications protocol will be referred to throughout the following discussion simply by the name Bluetooth with it being understood that this name is a registered trademark and that other suitable wireless communications protocols could be implemented in place of the Bluetooth protocol if desired.

The hardware interconnect apparatus itself is preferably the LIVIO Connect API interconnect apparatus available from Myine Inc. of Ferndale Mich. However any suitable interconnect device that is able to interface the user s smartphone to a vehicle radio system may potentially be used. The LIVIO Connect API interconnect apparatus enables a first communications link which in this example is a suitable short range wireless communications link for example a Bluetooth link to be established with the user s smartphone .

The hardware interconnect apparatus may include a processor a memory an interface subsystem and a Bluetooth enabled wireless transceiver . The interface subsystem may be used to establish a second communications link in this example a wireless link for example through analog audio digital audio or an RF signal such as FM with an electronic device associated with a predetermined environment.

It will also be appreciated that instead of a wireless Bluetooth link a hardwired connection could be made to the hardware interconnect apparatus via a suitable cable. The hardwired connection may be made to a suitable port not shown on the interface subsystem . Such a hardwired connection may be formed by using a USB cable or any other type of cable protocol suitable for making a relatively short range connection with hardware interconnect apparatus . It is anticipated that in the great majority of instances however that users will prefer the convenience of making a wireless connection with the hardware interconnect apparatus . Accordingly the following discussion will focus on such an implementation where a wireless communications link is established but with the understanding that a hardwired connection is equally feasible.

The electronic device may be for example a radio system . The predetermined environment may be for example a motor vehicle in which the radio system is present. Of course any implementation where it is desirable to automatically re start an application running on the smartphone is considered to be within the purview of the present disclosure. Simply as one example the following discussion will focus on the implementation where the smartphone is connecting to the car radio system which in turn is being used in the motor vehicle . And while the motor vehicle is shown as an automobile and particularly a sedan it will be appreciated that the hardware interconnect apparatus and the Auto Launch application may be implemented in virtually any type of vehicle car truck van boat etc. having an radio or stereo system that can produce audio from an input source through installed speakers. As will be explained in greater detail in the following paragraphs the Auto Launch application and the hardware interconnect apparatus together operate to establish a wireless link i.e. Bluetooth link with the smartphone as soon as the user enters the vehicle and turns on the vehicle s ignition switch.

In general operation when the user leaves the vehicle and turns off the vehicle ignition while the user set default application is running the default application being handled by the hardware interconnect apparatus will typically stop running or be paused. When the user re enters the vehicle and then turns on the ignition switch and turns on the radio system the default application would typically not start operating again without some manual intervention by the user. The intervention would typically be the user physically accessing his her smartphone going to the default application and commanding it to re start. With the Auto Launch application there is no need for the user to physically access his her smartphone upon re entering the vehicle when the user set default application had been previously running. A principal advantage of the Auto Launch application is that as soon as the user re enters the vehicle and turns on the vehicle ignition switch the hardware interconnect apparatus will automatically establish the wireless communications link with the user s smartphone . The Auto Launch application which will have been preselected by the user to automatically start running whenever the user s smartphone is powered on will immediately command the user selected default application that was previously running when the vehicle was last shut down to begin running again. Thus the user will not need to physically access his her smartphone and manually go to the default application and command it to begin running again. This is a significant benefit and convenience to the user. This is especially so if the user is prone to forgetting to re start the default application after re entering the vehicle. Another benefit is providing applications and content providers the business model of guaranteeing that their product will start when the vehicle is started.

It will also be appreciated that a hard wired connection could be established with the hardware interconnect apparatus . Thus the hardware interconnect apparatus could be configured to recognize when a hardwired connection has been made to it with the smartphone . The Auto Launch application could be configured to immediately launch and thus command the user selected default application to re start or launch.

Referring to a more detailed flowchart is shown of the various operations performed by the Auto Launch application during operation. The flowchart of focuses on operations performed when the user s smartphone is an iPhone running the iOS . Initially at operation the user enters the vehicle and turns on the vehicle s ignition switch. The hardware interconnect apparatus powers up as indicated at operation . It will be understood that there will be a default application on the iPhone that will start if the user has not made an explicit selection as to what application he she wants to automatically start. If the user has made a specific selection for a different application to autostart then the user selected application will be the one that is automatically started when the user s smartphone comes into proximity with the car radio system . Also when the smartphone is running the Android OS the user will have preselected that the Auto Launch application is to start automatically whenever the smartphone is powered on. With the iOS the user does not need to configure the Auto Launch application to automatically begin running. In this instance when an iPhone is running the iOS will pair with the vehicle s car radio system when a Bluetooth session is opened with the hardware interconnect apparatus . This capability will become available as soon as the user downloads and installs the Auto Launch application on his her iPhone.

The Auto Launch application may also incorporate a menu screen that the user can pull up by selecting an appropriate icon on his her smartphone display. The menu screen will display all other applications that the Auto Launch application may synch with and thus automatically launch. Such applications may include without limitation one or more of the PANDORA streaming music application Digitally Imported dance and music radio DI.FM . AccuRadio the INRIX traveler and traffic information software the GROOVESHARK Internet radio broadcasting service National Public Radio NPR GotRadio Internet radio service and LIVE365.COM audio program hosting just to name a few potential applications. The different applications could involve music playback traffic weather or any other type of content that the user desires to play back through the vehicle s car radio system or which makes use of the display of the vehicle s radio system . The user may check a specific one of the applications listed in the menu and that specific application will thereafter be the application that the Auto Launch application will automatically start whenever the user enters the vehicle . This will occur unless and until the user checks a different specific application to be the application that is automatically started by the Auto Launch application .

At operation the hardware interconnect apparatus once powered on automatically establishes the wireless link with the vehicle car radio system and the wireless link with the user s smartphone . The wireless link with the user s smartphone will typically be a Bluetooth wireless link although any other suitable type of wireless or wired link could potentially be used. For the purpose of discussion it will be assumed that wireless link is a Bluetooth communications link.

At operation the Bluetooth wireless device which in this example is the hardware interconnect apparatus sends a radio identification ID signal to the smartphone . In this example the radio ID signal may be com.Iivio.launcher which is used for iOS and there may be a separate universally unique identifier UUID for ANDROID OS based devices. This establishes a Bluetooth communications protocol serial port profile SPP signal link with the user s smartphone . At operation upon receiving the radio ID signal the Auto Launch application is started by the user s smartphone . This establishes a serial port profile SPP signal link between the hardware interconnect apparatus and the user s smartphone . At operation a splash screen notification with the Auto Launch application icon may be displayed on the user s smartphone display while the Auto Launch application gathers information on settings from the Global Settings menu on the user s smartphone .

At operation the Auto Launch application obtains and starts the user set default application. At operation additional user selected variables associated with the default application are obtained by the Auto Launch application and applied as needed for the default application that has just been started by the Auto Launch application . At operation the default application runs just as if it had been manually commanded to run by the user. Reference number indicates the communications path with the default application after it has been started by the Auto Launch application .

Referring now to a flow diagram of operations is shown which provides one example of how the Auto Launch application may be implemented with a smartphone running the Android OS. Initially at operation the Bluetooth enabled device which in this example is the hardware interconnect device is broadcasting a connection request signal or is on and the smartphone has initiated a pairing connection request as indicated at arrow . Block indicates the pairing and connecting process is in progress. Arrow indicates the pairing and connecting process has completed. Arrow also indicates that an Android ACL CONNECT broadcast has been sent to applications that are registered. By registered it is meant those applications that have signed up to receive this broadcast message in the Android OS. At block it is indicated that the Auto Launch application has its own broadcast receiver class. The Broadcast Receiver class is registered with the Android OS to receive the broadcasted notification of an ACL CONNECT signal with a Bluetooth device.

Arrow indicates that the broadcast receiver class of the Auto Launch application is taking action on the ACL CONNECT broadcast that was sent from the Android OS. Initially the broadcast receiver class will attempt to stop the watcher service if the watcher service is running. At block the Android OS has been handed an Intent To Start the watcher service . Arrow indicates that the Android OS is handling the Intent To Start and starts the watcher service . Block indicates that the watcher service has been started by the Android OS.

Arrow represents the watcher service trying to initiate a SPP connection with paired Bluetooth devices. Block represents the watcher service in the process of setting up a SPP connection with the Bluetooth device i.e. the hardware interconnect apparatus as well as initializing the Connect API on the apparatus upon the watcher service receiving a CONNECT command from the hardware interconnect apparatus . If the watcher service was previously started with an intent that contains a parcelable Bluetooth device it will use that information to attempt to connect with the Bluetooth device. However if no information was available it will query the Android OS for all paired Bonded Bluetooth devices and attempt to connect to each one if they contain a specified label e.g. Livio . The specific label is subject to change or to being extended. If one of the connections to a given Bluetooth device in this example the apparatus was successful the attempts will stop and that device will be set as the device to perform SPP communication with. This will also start the watcher service listening for the CONNECT packet from the hardware interconnect apparatus to set up the Connect API. Arrow indicates that the CONNECT packet was received by the smartphone and that the Connect API has been initialized.

Arrow and block indicate that the user hit a button on the hardware interconnect apparatus that is set up to send a FOCUS APP packet through SPP as established by the Connect API . At arrow the FOCUS APP packet is sent through the SPP connection established on the Android powered smartphone . At arrow the watcher service has received the FOCUS APP packet and will now be taking action on it. Block represents the launching of the Splash Screen activity the watcher service class closing its SPP connection and the watcher service closing itself. Arrow represents the Android OS handling the intent and block represents the Splash Screen activity running. The Splash Screen activity may be used to display a logo screen before launching the user selected default application as well as to perform various start up tasks. It may contain a timed wait to display the logo screen before continuing the chain to launch the selected default application by sending an Intent To Start the Auto Launch application . Arrow represents the Splash Screen activity running and a selected logo being displayed on the display of the user s smartphone. Block represents the Splash Screen activity performing loading functions if needed and waiting a certain time duration to appear in the foreground before sending the Intent To Start message to the Android OS for the Android OS to start the Auto Launch application as well as closing the Splash Screen activity. Arrow represents that the data loading is finished and the wait time is over.

Arrow represents that the Splash Screen activity sends the Android OS an Intent To Start message with Intent A String Extra that states to launch the Auto Launch application . Block represents the Intent being sent and handled to start the Auto Launch application .

Arrow represents that the Android OS is handling the Intent and starts the Auto Launch application . Block represents the Auto Launch application operating. When it starts up it will query the Android OS for all installed application packages. These may all be displayed in a custom view layout that may include for example the application icon the name of the application and a radio button. If a user selects one of the applications by a finger click press the row background may turn to a different color or shade and the radio button may also change to the set position image. This may also cause the previously set i.e. old default application to go back to the standard state of a certain gradient for example a white gradient image and with the not set radio button image displayed next to the icon. This is also the main GUI graphic user interface . The user can also select which application to set as the default application which will be started automatically by the Auto Launch application . At this GUI the user may also choose different application specific settings. Block is also responsible for storing the default application information and launching the default application on receiving the corresponding Intent.

Arrows and represent the Auto Launch application having read in the Intent String Extra and doing two things. At block the Intent has been sent and is being handled to start the selected default application set by the user. The user selected default application information is saved to a shared preference instance in the Android OS. Arrow represents the Android OS handling the Intent and starting the default application that was specified from the Auto Launch application . Block represents the default application that was launched from the Auto Launch application . User selected default application information is saved to a shared preference instance in the Android OS. Block represents sending and handling of the Intent To Start the Polling Service. Arrow represents the Android OS handling the Intent To Start and starting the Polling Service and block represents the Polling Service running. The Polling Service s main task is to run a query on an Activity Manager running on the smartphone to find out if the default application that was launched from the Auto Launch application is still running. This timer may happen every few seconds for example every five seconds. It will close itself on finding the application not running anymore and then start the Watcher Service

Arrow and block represent the user hitting the Back button on his her smartphone while the launched default application was in the foreground. This would of course close the default application and return control to the Auto Launch application . The Android OS will then determine the next course of action.

At arrow the Polling Service starts a timer represented by block . This timer may be run every few seconds such as every five seconds. At arrow the Android OS recognizes the Auto Launch application was the last process on the stack previous to the default application. The Android OS then returns the Auto Launch application to the foreground. This makes a call to an onResume subroutine within the activity. As described in the Android document on Activity Lifecycles the onResume subroutine will be called when the user returns to the application. This function is part of an Activity class of the Auto Launch application and it has been overridden to perform specific actions as indicated by line .

Arrow represents the timer having found the default application to be running. It stops its query and waits to be started again. Arrow represents the timer as not having found the default application to be running anymore. The Polling Service sends the Android OS an Intent To Start the Watcher Service

The arrow represents the onResume subroutine contained code to send an Intent to the Android OS to start the Watcher Service

Arrow Block represents the closing of the Polling Service upon no longer finding the default application to be running. Line represents the Polling Service has closed itself and the flow restarts at block .

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that the Auto Launch application significantly enhances the convenience to users in using the various applications on their smartphones. This is especially so when the user is operating a motor vehicle and even more so for users that are in their vehicles for a good part of each day and who repeatedly have to stop leave their vehicle for a short while and then get back into the vehicle and drive to a different location before again leaving the vehicle for a short while. The Auto Launch application also eliminates the possibility that the user may realize only after re entering his her vehicle and driving onto a crowded street freeway or highway that he she needs to manually restart an application and then must pull off the road and manually enter the proper command to his her phone to restart the default application on his her smartphone.

Moreover it is an advantage that the Auto Launch application can be configured to work with a variety of applications that are available for use on smartphones regardless of the operating system that the smartphone employs. In this regard the Auto Launch application is able to detect the specific application that the user has set as the default application and includes the necessary command to start or re start the application as soon as the user enters the vehicle .

While various embodiments have been described those skilled in the art will recognize modifications or variations which might be made without departing from the present disclosure. The examples illustrate the various embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Therefore the description and claims should be interpreted liberally with only such limitation as is necessary in view of the pertinent prior art.

