---

title: Storing local session data at a user equipment and selectively transmitting group session data to group session targets based on dynamic playback relevance information
abstract: In an embodiment, a given user equipment (UE) in a local communication session (e.g., a P2P or ad-hoc session) between multiple UEs is designated to record session data. The given UE records the session data exchanged between the multiple UEs during the local communication session and uploads the recorded session data to a server after the local communication session has terminated. In another embodiment, a session controller (e.g., a remote server or a P2P node) receives multiple media feeds from multiple transmitting UEs, and selectively interlaces subsets of the multiple media feeds into interlaced output feed(s) that are transmitted to target UE(s). The target UE(s) provide feedback which permits the session controller to determine a lowest relevant configuration (LRC) for the target UE(s) that is used to regulate the interlaced output feed(s) transmitted thereto.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277013&OS=09277013&RS=09277013
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09277013
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
Embodiments relate to storing local session data at a user equipment and selectively transmitting session data to group session targets based on dynamic playback relevance information.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

Performance within wireless communication systems can be bottlenecked over a physical layer or air interface and also over wired connections within backhaul portions of the systems.

In an embodiment a given user equipment UE in a local communication session e.g. a P2P or ad hoc session between multiple UEs is designated to record session data. The given UE records the session data exchanged between the multiple UEs during the local communication session and uploads the recorded session data to a server after the local communication session has terminated. In another embodiment a session controller e.g. a remote server or a P2P node receives multiple media feeds from multiple transmitting UEs and selectively interlaces subsets of the multiple media feeds into interlaced output feed s that are transmitted to target UE s . The target UE s provide feedback which permits the session controller to determine a lowest relevant configuration LRC for the target UE s that is used to regulate the interlaced output feed s transmitted thereto.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

As used herein the term interlace interlaced or interlacing as related to multiple video feeds correspond to stitching or assembling the images or video in a manner to produce a video output feed including at least portions of the multiple video feeds to form for example a panoramic view composite image and the like.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

UEs and connect to the RAN at a portion served by a portion of the core network denoted as including a first packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN a home agent HA a foreign agent FA PGW SGW in LTE etc. . The first packet data network end point in turn connects to the Internet and through the Internet to a first application server and a routing unit . UEs and . . . N connect to the RAN at another portion of the core network denoted as including a second packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN FA HA etc. . Similar to the first packet data network end point the second packet data network end point in turn connects to the Internet and through the Internet to a second application server and the routing unit . The core networks and are coupled at least via the routing unit . UE connects directly to the Internet within the core network e.g. via a wired Ethernet connection via a WiFi hotspot or 802.11b connection etc. whereby WiFi access points or other Internet bridging mechanisms can be considered as an alternative access network to the RAN and through the Internet can then connect to any of the system components described above.

Referring to UEs and are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a desktop computer and UEs . . . N are illustrated as wireless tablets and or laptop PCs. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the multimedia client B corresponds to a client that executes on the UE to support communication sessions e.g. VoIP sessions PTT sessions PTX sessions etc. that are arbitrated by the application server or over the RAN whereby the RAN described above with respect to forms part of a WWAN. The multimedia client B is configured to support the communication sessions over a Personal Area Network PAN and or WLAN via the WLAN radio and modem B.

Referring to the WWAN radio and modem B corresponds to hardware of the UE that is used to establish a wireless communication link with the RAN such as a wireless base station or cellular tower. In an example when the UE can establish a good connection with the application server the application server can be relied upon to partially or fully arbitrate the UE s communication sessions such that the multimedia client B can interact with the WWAN radio and modem B to connect to the application server via the RAN to engage in the communication session.

The WLAN radio and modem B corresponds to hardware of the UE that is used to establish a wireless communication link directly with other local UEs to form a PAN e.g. via Bluetooth WiFi etc. or alternatively connect to other local UEs via a local access point AP e.g. a WLAN AP or router a WiFi hotspot etc. . In an example when the UE cannot establish an acceptable connection with the application server e.g. due to a poor physical layer and or backhaul connection the application server cannot be relied upon to fully arbitrate the UE s communication sessions. In this case the multimedia client B can attempt to support a given communication session at least partially via a PAN using WLAN protocols e.g. either in client only or arbitration mode .

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet or can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application servers or etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

It will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

During set up of the local communication session over the PAN in A UEs . . . N engage in a negotiation procedure in order to designate a recording function to one or more of the participating UEs A. In an example UEs . . . N may attempt to figure out which participating UE has the highest local storage availability so that the recording function is assigned thereto. In another example UEs . . . N may attempt to figure out which participating UE has access to the fastest and or cheapest data plan so that the selected UE will be expected to upload the recorded media at a later point in time in the most efficient and or least expensive manner. In A of assume that the negotiation procedure results in UE being designated as an initial session recorder whereby UE is assigned an upload task to upload the stored session data at a later point in time upon obtaining a suitable connection to the application server . Thus if UE is capturing high definition HD video but would not have sufficient memory to store the HD video itself for an extended period of time UE can borrow UE s memory by sending the HD video to UE over the PAN with UE storing the HD video and being responsible for uploading the HD video on behalf of UE at a later point in time. In this case the local communication session can be established specifically for the purpose of recording the HD video as opposed to establishing the local communication session to present the HD video with the subsequent upload being an archiving procedure. For example if UEs and are operated by users watching a basketball game and the user of UE is actively capturing the basketball game on HD video the HD video recorded by UE may be sent to UE over the PAN even if UE is in a pocket of his her user such that UE s user is not necessarily viewing UE s captured HD video while UE still functions to facilitate storage and subsequent upload of the UE s captured HD video.

Next UEs . . . N engage in the local communication session over the PAN e.g. UE streams its captured HD video to UE and or other UEs in the session A while UE stores at least a portion of the exchanged session data A. In an example UE does not need to record all of the session data but could be assigned to record designated portions of the session data e.g. if 1080 p video is being exchanged UE could instead re format and store the video at 720 p if both video and audio are being exchanged UE may opt to only store video etc. . illustrates an example state of the local communication session at A whereby UEs . . . N communicate via a PAN B and are out of range of a nearby WLAN B and WWAN B with UE recording the PAN mediated session data.

Referring to at a later point in time assume that UE drops out of the local communication session and thereby stops recording the session data A. UEs . . . N detect UE s exit from the local communication session and engage in another negotiation procedure in order to designate the recording function to one or more of the remaining participating UEs A. In A of assume that the negotiation procedure results in UE being designated as the new session recorder whereby UE is assigned an upload task to upload the stored session data at a later point in time upon obtaining a suitable connection to the application server . Accordingly UEs . . . N continue to exchange media over the PAN during the local communication session A while UE stores at least a portion of the exchanged session data A. Eventually the local communication session terminates A.

Referring to UE later establishes a connection to the RAN A and UE uses its RAN connection to upload its portion of the recorded session data recorded at A to the application server A and the application server stores the uploaded session data from UE A. UE also later establishes its own connection to the RAN A and UE also uses its RAN connection to upload its portion of the recorded session data recorded at A to the application server A and the application server stores the uploaded session data from UE A. illustrates an example state of the local communication session between A and A whereby UE connects to the application server via the WWAN B and UE connects to the application server via the WLAN B. Also shown in are UEs . . . N being in range of the WWAN B but UEs . . . N were not assigned the recording function and or the upload task during the local communication session such that UEs . . . N need not connect to the WWAN B for the purpose of uploading data to the application server . Returning to the application server merges the disparate recorded session data from UEs and A such that the local communication session can be seamlessly reconstructed e.g. the respective recorded session data is organized based on its time of capture or recording overlapping or redundant recorded session data from UEs and is removed etc. . In the case of an HD video recording session the recorded HD video at UEs and can be merged so as to produce a single HD video that can be viewed without interruption so long as UE was buffering the HD video when UE dropped out of the session so as to bridge any time gap between A and A.

Referring to after UE has already been recording the session data for a period of time at A UE joins the local communication session A. After UE joins the local communication session UEs . . . N engage in another negotiation procedure that results in UE being designated as the new session recorder whereby UE is assigned an upload task to upload the stored session data at a later point in time upon obtaining a suitable connection to the application server A. For example UE may have initially been deemed the best suited UE to perform the recording function but the late joining UE may be deemed even more suitable thereby prompting the recording function to be transferred thereto after UE joins the session. Thus while shows the recording function being transferred as a result of the current session recorder dropping out of the local communication session shows an example of the recording function being transferred while the previous session recorder remains in the local communication session as a non recorder. In yet another example the recording function could be transferred from UE to UE during an extended session as the respective recordings at the session recorders fills up their available memory so that the best recording device at any particular point in the session can be construed as a shifting or dynamic target.

Referring to after the negotiation procedure results in UE being designated as the new session recorder UE stops recording the session data A. Thereafter UEs . . . N continue to exchange media over the PAN during the local communication session A while UE stores at least a portion of the exchanged session data A. Eventually the local communication session terminates A after which A through A substantially correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to after the negotiation procedure results in UE being designated as the new session recorder UEs . . . N continue to exchange media over the PAN during the local communication session B while UE stores at least a portion of the exchanged session data B. Eventually the local communication session terminates at B. At some later point in time UE establishes a connection to the RAN B and uploads the stored session data recorded at both UE and UE to the application server via the RAN connection B. The application server stores the uploaded session data from UE B. In example the merger or reconciliation between the session data stored by UE at B and at UE at B can occur at the application server similar to A of or A of such that the upload B can be implemented as an upload of two distinct data files. Alternatively the merger or reconciliation between the session data stored by UE at B and at UE at B can occur at UE itself such that the upload B can be implemented as an upload of a single merged data file that is representative of the local communication session.

During the group communication session transmitting UEs . . . N each transmit media feeds with a first set of configurations to the session controller e.g. the application server over the RAN or an ad hoc or P2P UE A. The session controller interlaces the media feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . N into X interlaced output feeds for transmission to target UEs . . . X A and the session controller transmits the X interlaced output feeds to target UEs . . . X A. Each interlaced output feed generated at A includes either a set of independent media feeds from the media received at A or a single composite output feed. For example the first set of configurations of the media from the transmitting UEs . . . N can include one or more audio and video configurations one or more video formats e.g. including resolutions of 720 p and or 1080 p a full screen video format video with a frame rate of 30 frames per second etc. and so on. As will be appreciated not all of target UEs . . . X may wish to receive the same groupings of media or media feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . N. For example target UE may receive video feeds from transmitting UEs and along with an audio feed from transmitting UE target UE may wish to receive video feeds from UEs and with no audio feed and so on. Also even if certain target UEs . . . X receive the same video feed within their respective interlaced output feeds for instance different versions of the video feed may be conveyed to different target UEs e.g. different resolutions of the same video feed with some video feeds having their original resolutions down converted .

The media that is output from the session controller to a particular target UE can thereby contain a plurality of different feeds from different transmitting UEs and these feeds can be combined together or interlaced to form an interlaced output feed that is sent to the particular target UE. As noted above each independent media feed that is interlaced into a particular interlaced output feed can correspond to an independent stream such that the interlaced output feed can correspond to a plurality of independent constituent media feeds. In a further example one or more independent constituent media feeds in a particular interlaced output feed can be downsized from its corresponding source media feed received as part of the first set of configurations at A in an example. Thus a video feed from transmitting UE may be received at 720 p and a 480 p version of the transmitting UE s video feed may be generated by the session controller and then added into the interlaced output feeds for one or more target UEs at A.

Referring to the target UEs . . . X receive the interlaced output feeds from the session controller and at A report information including i the current manner in which the respective target UEs are currently presenting the media feeds from their respective interlaced output feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . N ii a desired or preferred manner that the respective target UEs wish to present the media feeds from their respective interlaced output feeds iii a request that a media feed from one or more of the transmitting UEs . . . N be removed from its respective interlaced output feed and or iv a request that one or more new media feeds be added into its respective interlaced output feed. The above noted report information inclusive of any combination of i through iv is referred to hereafter as dynamic playback relevance information .

Referring to A of in an example where the dynamic playback relevance information includes the current manner in which the respective target UEs are presenting the media feeds from their respective interlaced output feeds as in example i of the dynamic playback relevance information for A if the first set of configurations of the media from the transmitting UEs . . . N includes an audio portion from transmitting UE the dynamic playback relevance information may indicate whether the target UEs . . . X are outputting the audio portion from transmitting UE at all or whether the target UEs . . . X are muted a volume at which the target UEs . . . N are outputting the audio portion from transmitting UE if un muted whether the audio portion from transmitting UE is being outputted via monotone stereo or surround sound whether the audio portion is being outputted via internal speakers coupled to the target UEs . . . X or via external speakers and so on. In another example if the first set of configurations of the media from the transmitting UEs . . . N includes a video portion from transmitting UE the dynamic playback relevance information may indicate whether the target UEs . . . X are presenting the video portion from transmitting UE at all a resolution at which the target UEs . . . X are presenting the video portion from transmitting UE a subset of the video portion from the transmitting UE that is being presented with part of the video portion being excluded from presentation at the respective target UEs . . . X a frame rate at which the video portion from is being presented at the respective target UEs . . . X a frequency at which the target UEs . . . X present the video portion from transmitting UE to their users e.g. once per minute for 5 seconds etc. and so on. Accordingly the dynamic playback relevance information can convey current information with regard to which portions of the first set of configurations the media from transmitting UEs . . . N are likely to be interacting with operators of the target UEs . . . X i.e. which portions are relevant in terms of playback at the respective target UEs . . . X. By contrast conventional playback information is related to the theoretical playback constraints of target UEs e.g. a display screen resolution limit of target UEs bandwidth constraints on a connection to target UEs and so on that do not actually convey real time relevance or usage information that fall beneath these constraints.

Referring to A of in an example where the dynamic playback relevance information includes a desired or preferred manner that the respective target UEs . . . X wish to present the media feeds from their respective interlaced output feeds as in example ii of the dynamic playback relevance information for A if the first set of configurations of the media from the transmitting UEs . . . N includes a video portion from transmitting UE at 720 p and a user of target UE wants to present the video portion from transmitting UE at 1080 p the dynamic playback relevance information may request that the transmitting UE or the application server increase the resolution of the video feed.

Referring to A of in an example where the dynamic playback relevance information includes a request that a media feed from one or more of the transmitting UEs . . . N be removed from its respective interlaced output feed as in example iii of the dynamic playback relevance information for A if the first set of configurations of the media from the transmitting UEs . . . N includes a video feed from transmitting UE and a user of target UE is not interested in presenting the video feed from transmitting UE the dynamic playback relevance information may request that the session controller remove the transmitting UE s video feed from the media transmission to target UE . As will be appreciated if a sufficient number of target UEs . . . X indicate a lack of interest in transmitting UE s video feed the transmitting UE itself may be asked to stop transmitting its video feed to the session controller.

Referring to A of in an example where the dynamic playback relevance information includes a request that one or more new media feeds be added into its respective interlaced output feed as in example iv of the dynamic playback relevance information for A if the first set of configurations of the media from the transmitting UEs . . . N includes a video feed from transmitting UE and a user of target UE the video feed from transmitting UE is not part of the interlaced output feed to target UE the dynamic playback relevant information may request that the session controller add or turn on the transmitting UE s video feed within target UE s interlaced output feed. In yet another example a given target UE may indicate an interest in receiving a media feed from a UE that is not yet among the transmitting UEs . . . N. In this case the non transmitting UE can be contacted by the session controller and asked to become a transmitting UE. If the contacted UE agrees to begin transmitting a media feed to the session controller the session controller can begin to add the media feed from the new transmitting UE to the given target UE s interlaced output feed.

Referring to the session controller receives the dynamic playback relevance information from target UEs . . . X and determines a target lowest relevant configuration LRC for the interlaced output feeds being directed to each of target UEs . . . X A. The target LRC for a particular target UE includes portions of the media feeds from the transmitting UEs that are actually deemed relevant to at least one of the particular target UE while excluding portions of the media feeds from the transmitting UEs that are not deemed relevant. For example if target UE is on mute than an audio feed is not currently relevant to playback at the target UE such that the LRC for target UE may exclude audio feeds. The target LRC is used to interlace the media feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . N into an updated set of X interlaced output feeds for transmission to the target UEs . . . X A. The updated set of X interlaced output feeds generated at A are then transmitted to the target UEs . . . X at A.

In addition to updating the manner in which the media feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . N are interlaced into the interlaced output feeds at the session controller it is sometimes appropriate to change the manner in which the transmitting UEs . . . N are capturing and or transmitting media feeds to the session controller as well. For example if the LRC for transmitting UE s video feed is below 480 p for each of targets . . . X then it is wasteful for the transmitting UE to capture or transmit its video feed at 480 p or higher. Accordingly the session controller optionally notifies the transmitting UEs . . . N of the highest LRCs for their respective feeds A. The transmitting UEs . . . N receive the highest LRC notification and determine whether to update the manner in which the respective media feeds are being captured at and or transmitted by the transmitting UEs . . . N at A. If the transmitting UEs . . . N determine not to update the first set of configurations for their media feeds at A the process returns to A. Otherwise if one or more of the transmitting UEs determine to update one or more of their respective media feeds based on the highest LRC information at A the transmitting UEs . . . N transmit media feeds with a second set of configurations to the session controller A whereby at least one of the media feeds with the second set of configurations at A is different than the media feeds with the first set of configurations from A. While not shown explicitly in the interlaced output feeds are generated e.g. in A based on the media feeds with the second set of configurations after A.

Thus the LRC information that is determined based on the dynamic playback relevant information may be used to constrain the manner in which the media feeds are transmitted to the target UEs . . . X from the session controller e.g. A through A of and also optionally the manner in which the transmitting UEs . . . N provide their respective media feeds to the session controller e.g. A through A of .

Referring to assume that a plurality of UEs are engaged in a group communication session with transmitting UEs . . . N providing a set of media feeds to a session controller e.g. the application server or another local UE for distribution to target UEs . . . X. During the group communication session assume that the transmitting UEs . . . N each capture video and audio media A and that the transmitting UEs . . . N each transmit the captured video and audio media as video and audio feeds to the session controller A e.g. similar to A of . The session controller interlaces the media feeds into X interlaced output feeds with each of the X interlaced output feeds each including the video and audio feeds from at least one of the transmitting UEs . . . N e.g. such as multiple video feeds and a single representative audio feed A e.g. similar to A of and the session controller transmits the X interlaced output feeds from A to the target UEs . . . X A e.g. similar to A of .

Referring to the target UEs . . . X receive and present the interlaced output feeds not shown and target UEs . . . X report their respective audio feeds are being muted A e.g. similar to A of whereby the session mute indications correspond to the dynamic playback relevance information . The session controller receives the session mute indications and determines that the LRC for target UEs . . . X includes video but does not include audio because the audio media is not being played by any of the target UEs . . . X A e.g. similar to A of . The session controller thereby continues to interlace both audio and video feeds into interlaced output feeds at A which are transmitted to target UEs . . . A. Also based on the LRC for target UEs . . . X the session controller interlaces video feeds only no audio into interlaced output feeds at A and then transmits the no audio interlaced output feeds to the target UEs . . . X at A.

Referring to assume that a plurality of UEs are engaged in a group communication session with transmitting UEs . . . providing a set of media feeds to a session controller e.g. the application server or another local UE for distribution to at least one target UE target UE . During the group communication session assume that the transmitting UEs . . . each capture video media B and that the transmitting UEs . . . each transmit the captured video media as video feeds to the session controller B e.g. similar to A of . For example illustrates examples of the video feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . as video feeds C through C respectively. In video feed C from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed showing the White House video feed C from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed showing a baseball field video feed C from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed showing a baby video feed C from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed showing sports and video feed C from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed showing a Laptop computer.

Returning to assume that the session controller interlaces the video feeds from the transmitting UEs and into an interlaced output feed for distribution to the target UE such that target UE s interlaced output feed omits the video feeds for the transmitting UEs and B e.g. similar to A of . In an example the session controller can execute decision logic to determine the initial allocation of video feeds to the corresponding interlaced output feeds for distribution to particular target UEs e.g. based on user preferences of the target UEs a perceived priority of the source video feeds etc. . The session controller transmits the interlaced output feed from B to the target UE B e.g. similar to A of . As will be appreciated other interlaced output feeds could also be generated and transmitted to other target UEs and focuses upon a single target UE for convenience of explanation. An example of the interlaced output feed sent to target UE at B of is shown in as interlaced output feed C which includes the video feeds C C and C from the transmitting UEs and at portions C C and C respectively of the interlaced output feed C. While the interlaced output feed C does not include the actual feeds C and C from the transmitting UEs and the interlaced output feed C is shown as including icons C and C that are representative of these video feeds whereby selection of either icon at the target UE prompts a request for the video feed associated with the selected icon to be added to the interlaced output feed C. Also it will be appreciated that the interlaced output feed C has the video feed C from the transmitting UE in the most prominent portion C and that the portions C and C can be implemented as icons such that selection of one of these portions by the user of the target UE can transition the corresponding video feed to the prominent portion.

Referring to the target UE receives and presents the interlaced output feed B. Next assume that the target UE transmits a request to the session controller for UE s video feed to be provided in the interlaced output feed in place of UE s video feed B. As noted above the request of B can be triggered responsive to a selection of UE s icon C within the interlaced output feed C. Responsive to the request of B the session controller determines that the LRC for target UE equals the video feeds from UEs and B and thereby interlaces the video feeds from the transmitting UEs and into an interlaced output feed for distribution to the target UE such that target UE s interlaced output feed omits the video feeds for the transmitting UEs and B. The session controller transmits the interlaced output feed from B to the target UE B and the target UE presents the interlaced output feed B. An example of the interlaced output feed sent to target UE at B of is shown in as interlaced output feed C which includes the video feeds C C and C from the transmitting UEs and at portions C C and C respectively of the interlaced output feed C. While the interlaced output feed C does not include the actual feeds C and C from the transmitting UEs and the interlaced output feed C is shown as including icons C and C that are representative of these video feeds whereby selection of either icon at the target UE prompts a request for the video feed associated with the selected icon to be added to the interlaced output feed C. Also it will be appreciated that the interlaced output feed C has the video feed C from the transmitting UE in the most prominent portion C and that the portions C and C can be implemented as icons such that selection of one of these portions by the user of the target UE can transition the corresponding video feed to the prominent portion.

Referring to assume that a plurality of UEs are engaged in a group communication session with transmitting UEs . . . providing a set of media feeds to a session controller e.g. the application server or another local UE for distribution to at least one target UE target UE . During the group communication session assume that the transmitting UEs . . . each capture video media D and that the transmitting UEs . . . each transmit the captured video media as video feeds to the session controller D e.g. similar to A of . For example illustrates examples of the video feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . as video feeds E E and E respectively. In video feed E from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed with a resolution of 640 480 showing a baseball field video feed E from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed with a resolution of 640 480 showing a baby and video feed E from transmitting UE corresponds to a video feed with a resolution of 640 480 showing the White House.

Returning to assume that the session controller interlaces the video feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . into an interlaced output feed for distribution to the target UE D e.g. similar to A of . In an example the session controller can execute decision logic to determine the initial allocation of video feeds to the corresponding interlaced output feeds for distribution to particular target UEs e.g. based on user preferences of the target UEs a perceived priority of the source video feeds etc. . In an example thumbnail or reduced resolution portions of the respective video feeds can be interlaced into the interlaced output feed of D or the respective video feeds can simply be interlaced at full resolution at least initially . The session controller transmits the interlaced output feed from D to the target UE D e.g. similar to A of . As will be appreciated other interlaced output feeds could also be generated and transmitted to other target UEs and focuses upon a single target UE for convenience of explanation.

Referring to the target UE receives and presents the interlaced output feed D. Next assume that the target UE transmits indications of target resolutions and or target display areas for each video feed in the interlaced output feed D. For example the target resolutions can correspond to the resolutions at which the respective video feeds in the interlaced output feed are being displayed at D or a desired resolution for video feeds e.g. which can theoretically be higher than the respective video feeds current resolutions . Also the target display areas can correspond to the display areas at which the respective video feeds in the interlaced output feed are being displayed at D e.g. the user of target UE has zoomed in on a particular sub section of one or more of the video feeds or a desired target display area for video feeds e.g. which can theoretically expand beyond the current layout of the respective video feeds or can be a sub section of one or more of the video feeds so that the video feed can be modified to accommodate a zoom function .

Responsive to the transmission of D the session controller determines that the LRC for target UE D and interlaces the video feeds from the transmitting UEs . . . into an interlaced output feed for distribution to the target UE D. illustrates an example of the LRC based processing that occurs at D and D of whereby the LRC is determined to be a 320 240 version of the video feed E from the transmitting UE a 100 100 cropped version of the video feed E from the transmitting UE and a 100 100 cropped version of the video feed E from the transmitting UE . With these assumptions the session controller downsizes the resolution of the video feed E to 320 240 at E crops the video feed E at E and then downsizes the resolution of the cropped video feed E to 100 100 at E crops the video feed E at E and then downsizes the resolution of the cropped video feed E to 100 100 at E. Once the target versions of each video feed are generated an interlaced output feed E is populated with the respective target video feed versions shown at portions E E and E respectively. In particular the 100 100 cropped video feed E from the transmitting UE is shown at portion E the 320 240 video feed E from the transmitting UE is shown at portion E and the 100 100 cropped video feed E from the transmitting UE is shown at portion E. The session controller transmits the interlaced output feed from D e.g. E from to the target UE D and the target UE presents the interlaced output feed D.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

