---

title: System and method for multi-analyte detection
abstract: The present invention provides a system and method for the simultaneous detection of multiple analytes in a sample. The detection system includes a housing that holds a reagent carousel rotatably coupled thereto. Further included in the housing is an incubator carousel rotatably coupled thereto. The housing also includes magnetic material that is associated with the incubation carousel for assisting in separation beads from reagent and wash solution. A robot, associated with the housing is configured to manipulate at least either the reagent carousel or the incubator carousel and transfer materials therebetween. Reaction vessels hold samples and reaction vessels handlers move the reaction vessels. Sample analysis is determined by at least one laser based detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08992833&OS=08992833&RS=08992833
owner: Bio Rad-Laboratories, Inc.
number: 08992833
owner_city: Hercules
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121217
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 13 094 743 filed Apr. 26 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 357 537 which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 784 596 filed Apr. 6 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 955 555 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 894 824 filed Jul. 19 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 220 385 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 489 001 filed Jul. 21 2003 and 60 488 572 filed Jul. 18 2003 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Generally the present invention relates to a system and method for multiple analyte detection. More particularly multiple analytes are contained within a single sample and analyzed simultaneously using high speed digital signal processing.

Disease analysis research and drug development depend heavily on laboratory assay analysis. An example of an assay that has become commonplace in today s laboratory is the immunoassay. Many other types of laboratory analyses are also conducted in today s laboratories such as analysis on blood urine serum blood plasma and other body fluids for proteins viruses bacteria and other conditions.

Traditionally laboratory assay analyses were very time consuming processes requiring lab personnel to perform precise measurements of reagents and samples mixtures centrifuging etc. Each step of these analyses typically needs to be repeated multiple times to acquire statistically significant data. Furthermore the processes are often wasteful of costly solvents solutions reagents require numerous man hours and are generally slow.

Accordingly automated devices were envisioned and developed to quicken the process generate more accurate results and make the process more economical and efficient. However a drawback of these devices is that a limited number of analyses can be run on any given sample at any time. Therefore much time is still required to analyze a sample for multiple analytes.

Accordingly a system and method for testing multiple analytes with little or no human intervention from a single test sample would be highly desirable.

According to one embodiment a system and method is provided for the simultaneous detection of multiple analytes. The system comprises a housing and a reagent carousel rotatably coupled to the housing. Also rotatably coupled with the housing is an incubator carousel. Magnetic material is associated with the incubation carousel for assisting in washing samples held by the incubator carousel. Furthermore at least one robot is coupled to the housing. The robot is configured to manipulate the reagent carousel and or the incubator carousel. Reaction vessel handlers are responsible for moving reaction vessels between locations such as a pre testing location testing location and post testing location. There is also at least one laser based detector for analyzing samples following mixing the sample with reagents.

In a preferred embodiment there is a flow cytometer for conducting the analysis of the samples. It is also preferred that washers are included for washing the robots and robot probes.

According to another embodiment the incubator carousel further includes a plurality of rings. Each ring is rotatable with respect to the other rings such that high throughput is achieved from the system.

According to yet another embodiment the reagent carousel is configured to contain reagent kits. The reagent kits are accessible by at least one robot. The kits and reagent carousel are designed to be utilized during use of the system and without interruption of overall system processes.

A general overview of the technology employed in the system follows. It should be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the following description of the technology employed in the system is intended as exemplary and educational and is not intended to limit the invention. Furthermore any numerical values ranges materials temperatures times or the like given below are preferred values not intended to limit the present invention. Following the general description is a more detailed description of each of the modules and various sub modules and other components.

Referring to the multi analyte detection system also referred to herein as MAD system includes a detector module DM a sample processing module SPM and a host computer . Each of these modules includes assemblies sub assemblies and or components that perform various tasks within the overall system and method of using the MAD. Note that the terms assembly and sub assembly are used throughout to help identify levels of component systems within overall system however such term are not meant to limit the invention and may be used interchangeably. 

For example sample processing module includes assemblies for specimen handling 31 reagent storage incubation and assay processing control of on board assemblies and processes storage and delivery of fluids and storage of wastes cleaning and maintenance functions and for communication between and among the various assemblies and modules. Detector module includes an analyzer for analyzing samples processed by SPM and interfaces for communicating with other modules and assemblies and for sending assay data to host .

Host computer system is generally responsible for providing oversight of necessary operations from instrument control to results evaluation data storage quality control mainframe bidirectional interfacing and operator assistance. Specific instrument control activities include movement of samples pipetting samples pipetting reagents flushing samples analyzing samples reporting data and troubleshooting the device.

Host computer preferably includes a processor or central processing unit CPU memory interfaces for communicating with modules other communication circuitry and a user interface that can include e.g. a monitor a keyboard a trackball or mouse and or a touch screen for data entry. Host computer system also preferably although not necessarily includes a printer or other peripheral output devices. Memory includes software and data for performing various operations and control of system . For example memory typically includes software modules such as an operating system one or more assembly control modules including instructions for operation and control of modules and other subsystems and components of system assay protocols analyzing processing and storing data quality control an expert system and a instructions and data related to scheduling of assays and procedures.

Referring to a preferred embodiment of MAD system is a self contained fully automated random assay system incorporating a sample processing module having a number of automated assemblies and components for processing samples and a detector module for analyzing the samples.

MAD system is capable of multiplexing a number of assays in the same reaction tube and preferably employs a multiplexed bead based chemistry system for performing numerous assays. For example in one embodiment system is capable of performing up to 25 or more individual assays in another embodiment up to 100 individual assays and in yet another embodiment more than 100 individual assays simultaneously in a single reaction vessel.

Generally detector module utilizes an advanced analyzer to detect the presence of analytes such as antigens antibodies receptors peptides oligonucleotides DNA RNA small molecules viruses viroids cells and the like in patient samples by integrating the technologies of fluoroimmunoassay and flow cytometry. This combination of advanced technologies allows system to perform e.g. at least 200 measurements per analyte per specimen and about 100 000 measurements per minute yielding up to about 2 200 results per hour. Detector module incorporates a flow cytometer that detects labeled microspheres or beads in a sample and communicates with hardware and software in host computer for assay control and data analysis. Optionally detector module incorporates its own computer processor and memory for providing some level of control and analysis and communicating with host .

In a preferred embodiment a flow cytometer of detector module analyzes individual microspheres by size and fluorescence distinguishing preferably three fluorescent colors green 550 610 nm emission orange 585 650 nm emission and red 650 nm emission simultaneously. Microsphere size determined by 90 degree light scatter is used to eliminate microsphere aggregates from the analysis. Orange and red fluorescence are used for microsphere classification and green fluorescence is used for quantification of analyte. Additional details and examples of detector module are described in section 5.2 below.

Major assemblies and components of sample processing module include a specimen rack handler assembly a reaction vessel handler assembly a reaction vessel supply system an incubator and separation carousel a reagent storage assembly a reagent robot a wash robot a solid waste system a sample handler and a fluidics system . Each of these components are shown in and described in more detail in section 5.3 below.

According to a preferred embodiment detector module is a dual laser flow cytometer system including fluidic electronic and optical subassemblies. The main optical components of the detector module are red laser for bead classification green laser for label excitation a PMT photomultiplier tube for detecting label emissions and photodiodes to detect signal coming as a result of excitation of the classification dyes in microparticles.

More particularly in one embodiment detector module is an advanced immunoassay analyzer incorporating SUSPENSION ARRAY LUMINEX CORPORATION . Briefly SUSPENSION ARRAY analysis involves the process of analyzing populations of microspheres or beads having unique intensities of red and near infrared dyes allowing each bead population to be identified and analyzed separately. Bead populations are distinguished with unique binding molecules making each population sensitive to a particular analyte. A fluorescent indicator dye is then used to quantify the amount of bound analyte on each bead. Calibrators convert average population intensity into analyte concentration. Performing the chemistry on microspheres e.g. on the surface of microspheres leads to significant reduction in reagents yielding significantly lower costs for consumables. Additional details may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 592 822 6 528 165 6 524 793 6 514 295 6 449 562 6 411 904 6 366 354 6 268 222 6 139 800 6 057 107 6 046 807 5 981 180 5 802 327 and 5 736 330 as well as in published U.S. Application Numbers 20030132538 and 20020182609 each of which in incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Detector module in one embodiment includes a flow cytometer having one or more lasers optics photodiodes a photomultiplier tube and digital signal processing to perform simultaneous discrete measurements of fluorescent microspheres. In one embodiment three avalanche photodiodes and a high sensitivity photomultiplier tube PMT receive photon signals from the microspheres. Detector module in this example digitizes the waveforms and delivers the signals to a digital signal processor DSP . The detector module works with the SPM and host computer to perform multiplexed analysis simultaneously by using the flow cytometer and digital signal processor to perform real time analysis of multiple microsphere based assays. Because a flow cytometer has the ability to discriminate different particles on the basis of size and or fluorescence emission color multiplexed analysis with different microsphere populations is possible. Differential dyeing microspheres emitting light at two different wavelengths allows aggregates to be distinguished and permits discrimination of in one embodiment up to about 25 different sets of microspheres in another embodiment up to about 100 different sets of microspheres and in yet another embodiment more than 100 different sets of microspheres. Several control beads are used in every analysis to ensure quality control of the results. The system can analyze small molecular weight e.g. T4 and large molecular weight analytes including for example IgG IgA and IgM antibodies and glycoprotein hormones.

In one embodiment fluorescence excitation a preferred embodiment of a MAD system involves two solid state lasers. These lasers illuminate the microspheres as they flow single file through the cuvette. The fluorescent signals are discriminated with selective emission filters and are converted into intensity units by using the DSP. There are two different fluorophores present within the microbeads which emit with two different emission profiles that are separately measured in order to define the address test analysis of the bead.

Immunochemical reactants such as antigens antibodies receptors peptides oligonucleotides DNA RNA small molecules viruses viroids cells and the like of these assays become bound to the surfaces of uniquely addressed fluorescent microscopic beads. The fluorescent spectral address of each bead identifies each of the assays performed simultaneously on a single sample. Based on its fluorescent signature every microsphere is classified to its own unique region. In addition each bead is scanned for the presence of a reporter fluorescence that quantifies the bead assigned assay at the bead surface. The MAD microspheres are highly uniform polystyrene based particles that have been crosslinked during polymerization to provide physical strength and stability. They also contain a magnetic core so that they can be attracted to an electromagnet to facilitate facile washing. The beads may be magnetic paramagnetic superparamagnetic or the like to facilitate processing and washing of samples. Varying ratios of different fluorochromes embedded within each microsphere give each bead a unique spectral address. Each microsphere is dyed to emit light in a certain classification channel. All microspheres of given emissions represent a distinct assay within a multiplex of assays. A reporter channel is used to detect fluorescence bound to the surface of each microsphere and each reporter emission quantitates each of the distinct assays. Only one reporter is needed for a multiplex of assays. To ensure the stability of this address the microspheres should be protected from light and high temperatures.

One technology employed in the MAD system is flow cytometry. Flow cytometry is a technique that simultaneously measures and then analyzes multiple physical characteristics of single particles usually cells as they flow in a fluid stream through a beam of light most commonly from a laser. As a technique flow cytometry is somewhat analogous to fluorescent microscopy one major difference is that flow cytometry provides a digital result. In flow cytometry measurements are performed on particles e.g. cells or microbeads in liquid suspension which flow one at a time through a focused light e.g. laser beam at rates up to several thousand particles per sec.

The properties measured by flow cytometry may include a particle s relative size relative granularity internal complexity and relative fluorescence intensity. These characteristics are determined using an optical to electronic coupling system that records how the cells or beads scatter incident light and emit fluorescence.

The detector module flow cytometer includes three main systems detector fluidics optics and electronics. The detector fluidics system transports particles in a stream to a laser beam for interrogation. A diagram of a typical flow cytometer fluidics system is shown in . Details of the MAD flow cuvette design and the wavelengths of the two laser beams used in MAD system are provided in . The optics system consists of lasers to illuminate the particles in the sample stream and optical filters to direct the resulting light signals to the appropriate detectors. Details of the MAD detector optics design are provided in . The electronics system converts the detected light signals into electronic signals that can be processed by the computer .

As shown in in the MAD flow cytometer particles are carried to the laser intercept in a fluid stream this liquid is referred to as sheath fluid . Particles are carried by a microscopic jet of buffer and are hydrodynamically focused in the center of the fast moving stream of the sheath fluid. The particles pass one by one some particles in the flow stream may not be individual entities particles may be bound to each other or in such close proximity that they are detected as a single bead through an intense beam of excitation light in the measuring region of the flow cytometer. Each particle thereby produces short flashes of fluorescence the intensities of which are proportional to the content of the fluorescently labeled constituent. shows a flow cytometry fluidics system according to an embodiment of the present invention showing the flow direction injector tip flow cell laser beam and sheath fluid .

The fluorochromes emit fluorescent light many times during the transit time of a bead through the flow cuvette.

Suspended particles or cells preferably from about 0.2 to about 150 micrometers in size are suitable for flow cytometric analysis. The portion of the fluid stream where particles are located is called the sample core. When particles pass through the laser intercept they scatter laser light without loss or gain of energy. Any light excited molecules present on the particle fluoresce. The scattered and fluorescent light are collected by appropriately positioned lenses. A combination of beam splitters and filters directs the scattered and fluorescent light to the appropriate detectors. The detectors produce electronic signals proportional to the optical signals striking them.

List mode data photon recordings are recorded in a list are collected for each particle or event. The characteristics or parameters of each event are based on light scattering and fluorescent properties. The data are collected and stored in a computer. These data can later be analyzed to provide information about subpopulations within the sample.

In a preferred embodiment detector module is equipped with two lasers and . Particular characteristics of lasers and are described below however one skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous other laser systems and analyzers are known in the art and may be used depending upon the types of assays one desires to perform any such lasers or alternative analyzers or detector modules may be employed in detector module as part of the overall MAD system without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In this example diode laser produces about 7 mWatts of about 635 nm red light. This laser is also referred to herein as red laser or the classifier laser since it is used to excite the classifier dyes within a bead leading to the identification of the bead region to which the bead belongs.

The second laser laser is preferably a diode pumped solid state continuous wave CW doubled Nd YAG laser. In this example embodiment laser produces about 15 mWatts of power and about 532 nm green light. Laser is also referred to herein as green laser or reporter laser since it functions to excite the reporter label groups at the microsphere or bead surface. Green laser preferably has a power stability of less than 2 over 8 hours and a beam diameter of 0.32 mm 10 . Laser uses yttrium aluminum garnet YAG as the matrix material doped with neodymium Nd YAG . A 15 mm lens is used as the primary focusing lens for the 532 nm laser .

Further in this embodiment there are two 4 mm lens assemblies located approximately 900 mm from the laser beam path. They are precision aligned to the cuvette and collect the fluorescent signals both reporter and classifier. A 550 nm 610 nm reflector is used to deflect the reporter signal to the single photomultiplier in the MAD system. A 630 nm 760 nm reflector is used to deflect the classifier signal to two classification channel avalanche photodiodes. One photodiode detects the red classifier dye emission and the other the orange classifier dye emission. Orthogonal scattered light from the beads is also measured on the system using a third avalanche photodiode. A block referred to as the U block houses the classifier and doublet discriminator lenses the diodes and circuitry. In one embodiment the flow cuvette is made of quartz and has a width and depth of 200 m. The light gathered by the photodetectors initially exits through one of the cuvette s walls is reflected by a mirror and finally passes through a filter before reaching the detector. The numerical aperture of the detector is 0.62. The mirror causes about 2 loss in light intensity and the filter cuts the intensity by about 50 . Fluorescence emission from the bead surface takes place at all angles and only a few percent of the total emitted photons are collected by the first mirror due to the physical limitations of the optics design. Therefore only a very small percentage e.g. probably 

Alternatively other more powerful 532 nm lasers may be used to improve the analytical sensitivity of immunoassays. In particular an approximately 50 mWatt laser photobleaches the primary detector molecule B phycoerythrin used as a reporter for most assays. The optimal wattage for 532 laser is about 10 20 mWatt in this example however other wattages or lasers may be used.

There are two fluidic paths in this MAD system detector module. The first path involves a syringe driven mechanism that controls the small volume sample uptake. This syringe driven system transports a user specified volume of sample from a sample container to the reaction vessel RV . After reaction incubation s the sample is injected into the flow cuvette at a steady rate for analysis. Following analysis the sample path is automatically purged with sheath buffer by the second fluidics path. This process effectively removes residual sample within the tubing valves and probe. The second fluidics path is driven under positive air pressure and supplies the sheath fluid to the cuvette.

As will be described in more detail below in this embodiment following the last aspiration of wash MAD system dispenses wash buffer e.g. approximately 20 70 A more preferably about 50 l into the reaction vessel RV in preparation for fluorescence reading. Approximately all of this volume is aspirated to the detector. The first approximately 5 l is ignored by the detector before reading commences. The length of time to read the beads is generally dependent on the bead concentration since in this example there is a defined number of beads read for all regions e.g. in this example about 200 beads read for all bead regions. This typically requires from about 5 to 25 sec. Counting of beads on the MAD system terminates when either the defined number of each regional bead in the assay panel are counted or when the allocated time for fluorescence analysis is completed. Since not all beads are at exactly the same concentration most bead sets will acquire more than 200 counts. Analysis terminates with the last bead region to reach the defined number e.g. 200 counts. The allocated time is determined by the sample flow rate and by its volume. The assay cycle time for the preferred timing sequence used by the IgG and IgM serology panels and the systemic autoimmune panel is e.g. 30 40 sec more preferably about 36 sec. The percent of the cycle time that the MAD system is reading fluorescent beads with the preferred timing sequence is therefore in this particular example about 28 to 53 . Of course other time cycles may apply depending upon system set up and types of assays performed.

The transit time for an individual bead to travel from the flow cuvette location in which it is interrogated by red laser to the location where the bead is illuminated by green laser is about 35 sec. The instrument s firmware measures the exact transit time during the detection calibration step. In an actual assay the detector measures this time from bead s coincident CL1 and CL2 readings see and then measures the conjugate derived fluorescence RP 1 see . Since the flow rate is approximately constant MAD system knows that a given green fluorescent signal is associated with the red and orange emissions registered 35 sec earlier. Because the bead concentration in the flow stream is low there is only a very low statistical chance that the RP 1 signal would be misassigned to the wrong bead i.e. a close proximity second bead in the flow cell. Since the flow rate for the MAD system is nominally 2.3 msec a bead would flow 81 microns in 35 sec. The distance between the focal points for the two lasers is therefore about 81 microns.

Because the fluorescence readings of the red and green emissions must be temporally coordinated it is desirable that the flow rate remain constant within a narrow range. Some change in flow rate does occur and the MAD system can accommodate minor fluctuations. Larger changes in the flow rate of beads through the detector would cause significant problems. When detector module of instrument is calibrated not only are the voltage settings adjusted to attain the three pre designated RFI readings but the instrument also adjusts for the time required for bead transit from the red to the green laser illuminations. As the flow rate changes due to pressure changes in the system the transit time changes in a near linear relationship. Once MAD system is calibrated and the transit time established subsequent change in pressure and thus flow rate will affect the results leading to deleterious effects including lower RFI values and decreased precision.

In one embodiment detector module takes somewhat less time to read the beads than the LUMINEX LX100 all else being equal. This is because the MAD system s analyzer preferably employs efficient magnets for wash and separation of analytes. Fewer beads are therefore lost with the MAD system the concentration of beads in the flow cell is higher and the time to count beads per region is less.

Fluorescent measurements of beads on detector module are gated where a gate is a boundary that defines a subset or sub population of events. Gates are set by electronically drawing boundaries around the data subsets. Gates can be used either for data acquisition or analysis. Inclusive gates select only the events that fall within and on the boundary. Exclusive gates select only the events that fall outside of the boundary. The gates described in this paragraph are data acquisition and exclusive gates . One gate is fixed by the firmware and two gates are optionally set by the operator. The first gate is automatically established and determines whether the CL1 and CL2 signals for an individual bead fit within one of the established bead map regions. If it does the bead passes that gate. If not the data for the bead is filtered out and subsequently ignored. The second gate which is operator established through the user interface is the doublet discriminator gate. This gate is based on the light scatter measurement of the bead. The purpose of this gate is to exclude bead aggregate events larger than an individual bead or bead debris events smaller than an individual bead . The third filter is the RP 1 gate. This gate excludes two types of events zero RFI beads and very bright beads high statistical outliers from further data analysis. The last gate is also user defined.

Fluorescent spillover occurs when two or more emission spectra overlap so that selective filtering cannot occur. In some flow analyzers emission spillover is corrected using a technique called compensation. Compensation involves subtraction of some emission percentage from another emission signal. One embodiment of system does not use compensation however the reporter signal does not significantly spill over into the classification emission.

The reporter fluorochrome is bound to the surface of the microsphere and provides raw analytical data. Because a microsphere suspension provides near liquid phase reaction kinetics each microsphere of a particular spectral address theoretically binds an equal number of reporter molecules. Equal binding results in a statistically even distribution of reporter on each microsphere in a set. This means numerous replicates for each microsphere population are measured from a single well. The confidence in a given measurement strengthens with increased replicate measurements. For adequate confidence 200 events per microsphere set in each well is usually sufficient.

In a preferred embodiment of system instead of employing commonly used microtiter wells to host the immunochemistry based assays the immunoassay reactions occur on the surface of microscopic magnetic polystyrene core beads known as microspheres. Suitable microspheres are disclosed for example in the LUMINEX patents listed above. Although such microspheres are not necessarily part of detector module they are described herein as they are integral to the principals of operation of an exemplary embodiment of the detector module as described.

Prior to use microspheres are maintained in suspension in a bead reagent solution. Individually dyed with combinations of two different fluorescent dyes red and orange a microsphere may have one of many possible levels of classifier dye fluorescent intensities. The various combinations of dyes create a sets of in one embodiment up to 25 uniquely color coded microsphere sets in another embodiment up to 100 uniquely color coded microsphere sets and in yet another embodiment more than 100 uniquely color coded microsphere sets. In one embodiment antigens or antibodies indicative of a specific bacterial or viral antigen protein or other molecule are coated onto the surfaces of each uniquely color coded bead set making each different microsphere set representative of a different assay.

Because in this example each microsphere is coated with antigens or antibodies specific for a given condition each microsphere is equivalent to an individual microtiter well used in many enzyme linked immunosorbent immunoassays ELISAs . Alternatively beads may be coated with proteins antibodies ligands or the like in order to run a wide variety of assays and assay formats. MAD system can simultaneously run multiplex according to one embodiment up to 25 assays in a single reaction vessel in another embodiment up to 100 assays in a single reaction vessel and in yet another embodiment more than 100 assays in a single reaction vessel using as little as 5 l of sample. Beads may include fluorescent or other labels or may be secondarily labeled during processing with labeled antibodies that bind to a target molecule after it is bound to a bead.

Fluorescent reactants e.g. fluorescent antibodies antigens or nucleic acid probes provide specific signals for each reaction in a multiplexed assay. Because each fluorescent reactant binds specifically to a target that is present on only one bead set in a multiplexed assay the soluble reactants do not need to be differentially labeled. All fluorescent molecules are labeled with a fluorophore such as the organic green emitting dyes BODIPY and fluorescein isothiocyanate or a more commonly used biological fluorophore such as phycoerythrin. Any fluorochrome can be used as a reporter however each fluorochrome has a characteristic emission spectrum which affects the amount of spillover into the orange fluorescence channel. In one example green emitting fluorophores are used.

To prepare a multiplexed assay individual sets of microspheres are conjugated with the target molecules required for each reaction. Target molecules may be antigens antibodies oligonucleotides receptors peptides etc. Fluorescent reactants may be complementary oligonucleotides antigens antibodies receptors etc. i.e. any molecule that will specifically bind to the target molecule. After optimizing the parameters of each assay separately in a nonmultiplexed format the assays can be multiplexed by simply mixing the different sets of microspheres. The fluorescent reactants also are mixed to form a cocktail for the multiplexed reactions. The microspheres are then reacted with a mixture of analytes for example in a biological sample followed by the cocktail of fluorescent reactants. After a short incubation period the mixture of microspheres now containing various amounts of fluorescence on their surfaces are analyzed with the flow cytometer. Data acquisition analysis and reporting are performed in real time on all microsphere sets included in the multiplex. As each microsphere is analyzed by the flow cytometer the microsphere is classified into its distinct set on the basis of orange and red fluorescence and the green fluorescence value is recorded. Two hundred individual microspheres of each set are analyzed and the median value of the green fluorescence is reported.

With respect to protein antigens methods for coupling proteins to bead surfaces are well known. For example covalent coupling of protein antigens to bead surface carboxyl groups by amide bond formation requires protonated carboxylic acids for the initial activation and esterification steps of the conjugation reactions. Since the pKa of carboxylic acids is higher in ethanol than in water conducting the initial steps in buffered ethanol is advantageous compared to conducting them in aqueous buffer. For example ethanol raises the pKa of methacrylic acid from pH 4.9 to approximately pH 6.0 which means that approximately ten fold more carboxyl groups will be available for coupling when the beads are activated and esterified at pH 5.0 in buffered ethanol compared to pH 5.0 in aqueous buffer. However because the classification dyes used to define the spectral addresses of the beads are soluble in organic solvents and are only infused into the bead surface it seemed possible that exposure of the beads to ethanol would result in leeching of these dyes. Depending on the extent of extraction leeching of classification dyes could reduce classification efficiency and if extreme could even cause misclassification. Other potential effects of ethanol include increasing bead autofluorescence and decreasing bead dispersion in aqueous solution. The objective of a conducted experiment described below was therefore to determine whether exposure of dyed beads to ethanol compromised classification efficiency increased autofluorescence and or decreased dispersion in aqueous solution. To address these issues dyed beads were exposed to absolute ethanol for four hours and sampled at 30 minute intervals. At the end of the exposure period the beads were evaluated sequentially in an LX 100 flow fluorometer and classification autofluorescence and bead dispersion data were acquired. The data showed no change in classification efficiency and bead dispersion for the duration of the study however there was a nominal increase in autofluorescence for some regions after 120 minutes and a substantial increase for these regions after four hours. Overall the data from these experiments indicated that activation and esterification of bead surface carboxyl groups for 60 minutes in 90 ethanol would not have adverse effects on the classification efficiency autofluorescence and dispersion of dyed beads. A consequence of this could be rearrangement of the bead surface ultrastructure through redistribution of hydrophilic and hydrophobic polymers and a change in the ability of the beads to remain dispersed in aqueous solution. This concern could be dismissed however because doublet discriminator data did not reveal any impact of ethanol on bead dispersion.

The data from this study indicated that exposure of dyed beads to ethanol for 60 minutes during carboxyl activation and esterification would not have any consequence on classification efficiency autofluorescence or dispersion of the beads in aqueous solution. Thus exploiting the power of ethanol to raise the pKa of bead surface carboxylic acids offers a practical opportunity to increase the coupling efficiency of bead ligation procedures.

An embodiment of detector uses a 14 bit analog to digital converter ADC . The resolution in terms of histogram bin width is about 1 32 000. This is fairly limited resolution. A current version of the DSP in the LUMINEX obtains eight fluorescent readings from each bead during its lifetime in the focused region of the reporter laser. The RFI values reported by the DSP of the detector are essentially an integration of the eight fluorescent readings per bead. The height direction of flow of the laser illuminated region in the detector flow cell is about 30 m and the velocity of the sample stream is roughly 2.3 msec. Thus the residence time of the bead in the illuminated region is about 13 sec. Assuming a fluorescence lifetime of 5 nsec for the reporter label the beads could be excited and then fluoresce 2 600 times 13 sec 5 nsec during the transit time assuming no photobleaching . Therefore reporter emission is recorded for less than 1 of the time the bead bound label is in the laser light path.

In one embodiment detector module is a flow cytometer that uses a two step calibration initiation. One calibrator CAL 1 adjusts the correct gain for the bead classifier photodiode detectors CL1 and CL2 and for the doublet discriminator detector DD . The second calibrator CAL 2 adjusts the gain for the reporter PMT RP1 . A current practice is to calibrate with CAL 1 to target values and calibrate CAL 2 to a fixed value for example a value of approximately 17 000 irrespective of the target value. In one embodiment the CAL 2 target value is around 3 800 10 .

In flow cytometry electronic gating typically is used to isolate classes of cells or particles. Often gating is used to differentiate one population of cells or particles from other populations. Doublet discriminator DD gating is also used to eliminate debris and aggregates from the counting statistics. The within RV CV values are lower when DD gates are used. In the case of the detector differentiation is accomplished via region gating CL1 and CL2 and there is a partial gate on the reporter channels that allows elimination of very low RFI events usually between 0 2 . DD gating is almost exclusively used by flow cytometers to eliminate debris and aggregates.

In addition to recording three different fluorescence measurements MAD system also detects light scatter. The collected scattered light is orthogonal scatter also referred to as right angle side angle or wide angle scatter. Orthogonally scattered light is a good reflection of the size of the particle from which the light impinged and was scattered. Side angle scatter is easily capable of distinguishing a bead from a bead doublet two beads stuck to each other or in very close vicinity . Detection of bead doublets is called doublet discrimination. In flow cytometry it is the usual practice to eliminate recorded doublet events from the data analysis since their physicochemical behavior is often aberrant when compared to single beads. Elimination of doublets can improve the precision and accuracy of an assay. When light impinges on a particle it is scattered without loss of energy in many directions. The magnitude and angles of scatter depend on such parameters as particle size density and shape.

Right angle light scatter is detected on the MAD instrument with an avalanche photodiode the same type of detector used to classify the beads into regions.

Referring again to one embodiment of sample processing module can include a number of subsystems and components for automating sample handling and assay procedures of system . Such subsystems can include a specimen rack handler assembly a reaction vessel handler assembly a reaction vessel supply system an incubator and separation carousel a reagent storage assembly a reagent robot a wash robot a solid waste system a sample handler and a fluidics system .

Each of the various subsystems and their interactions are described in more detail in sections below. Each of these subsystems and their physical relationship to other subsystems and components within SPM are described in the context of an exemplary embodiment of system and such examples are not intended to limit the invention. One skilled in the art will appreciate that variations in each subsystem and or their interactions may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

For example in the embodiment of system detailed below SPM includes twenty seven discrete stepper motors for actuation of various instrument robotic systems. These include multiple high speed high power carousel drives capable of better than e.g. 0.5 sec positioning times for moving incubation and separation carousel and reagent carousel . In addition multiple X Y robots having e.g. at least 0.5 mm placement accuracy preferably about 0.2 mm or better placement accuracy are employed for driving specimen rack handler reaction vessel handlers reagent robot sample handler wash robot and detector transfer robot . Additionally Z theta robots may be used to minimize probe movement times even further for time critical actions. One skilled in the art will appreciate that different number and types of subsystems and drive motors may be employed without departing from the overall spirit of the present invention.

Motor drives and sensor feedback are provided by a number e.g. four or more of custom designed stepper and sensor control printed wire assemblies PWA s also termed herein printed circuit boards or PCB s each capable of simultaneously driving multiple motors. Each has the capacity for multiple e.g. up to 24 sensor inputs used for positional feedback and motor step loss detection.

As will be described in more detail below with respect to some subsystems e.g. specimen rack handler RV handlers reagent robot and incubator carousel assembly integrated circuit boards related to each subsystem of SPM preferably communicate over an integrated compact PCI bus main system processor board of host computer . The main system processor board of host can be e.g. a Pentium III or the like single board computer running at 850 MHz with 128 Mbytes on board RAM and 48 Mbytes flash disk permanent storage. Alternatively host can also be a remote server which the device communicates with over a network. The logging of operational data to a controlling host via USB minimizes the requirement for data storage on system .

SPM as described in the example below also incorporates four or more pipetting probes for manipulating samples and reagents e.g. a sample handing probe associated with sample hander assembly a reagent probe associated with reagent robot assembly a wash dispense probe associated with wash robot and a detector probe associated with detector robot . Sample handler probe is used to aspirate and dispense samples from within tubes on specimen rack handling assembly into reaction vessels on incubation and carousel assembly . Reagent robot probe is used to aspirate and dispense reagents from reagent packages in reagent carousel into reaction vessels on incubation and separation carousel. In one embodiment reagent robot and sample handler probes share a common tapered tip design and are interchangeable. Wash robot probe and is used to dispense wash solution into reaction vessels on incubation and separation carousel . Detector robot probe is used to aspirate the completed assay bead solution into detector for analysis.

Each of the probes described herein are preferably made of stainless steel with an internal polished surface to reduce nonspecific binding. In one embodiment internal diameter of sample handler and reagent probes at the tapered tip is 475 25 m e.g. approximately 60 fold wider than the diameter of the magnetic beads . All probes except the detector probe are preferably tapered and beveled. Sample handler and reagent robot probes preferably incorporate sensors such as capacitive liquid level sensors for accurate and repeatable sensing of the liquid surface height as well as pressure sensing for detection of blockage and or when a probe is in contact with the bottom of an empty vessel.

Additional details of each of the subsystems and major components of sample processing module follow.

Specimen handler assembly generally includes an input area a main work area or horizontal platform a robotic finger a look ahead offline platform a STAT drawer an aspiration offline platform a look ahead barcode reader an aspiration offline barcode reader and sample trays and racks .

Robotic Finger is designed to move sample racks along horizontal platform without interfering with any of the other specimen handler components. In one embodiment finger employs a 2 axis mechanism horizontal in the x axis and rotational . The two axes work in conjunction to allow the finger to either push a rack e.g. to the right or left or bypass a rack. The horizontal axis provides the horizontal motion while rotational axis provides the option for either engaging or disengaging from pushing the racks.

Referring to horizontal movement of finger is belt driven by a stepper motor . This motor belt drive assembly is preferably located underneath the horizontal platform to minimize its interference with other specimen handler components and accessibility to users.

The rotational axis movement is also belt driven by a stepper motor . Motor preferably rotates a square shaft on which the horizontal motion occurs of finger to move finger down to a disengaged position as shown or up into an engaged position. In the engaged position finger can slide racks from right to left along horizontal platform as shown in under the power of horizontal stepper motor .

The number of sensors monitor the position and status of the robotic finger . A finger horizontal home optical sensor located on farthest right side of the specimen handler determines the horizontal home position of finger . A Finger horizontal step optical sensor located on the farthest right side of the specimen handler determines the horizontal position of finger . A finger rotational home optical sensor located on farthest right side of specimen handler determines the rotational home position of the finger . A finger rotational step optical sensor located on the farthest right side of the specimen handler determines the rotational position of the finger . Each of the motors and sensors is electrically connected to system via backplane printed wire assembly .

The look ahead offline platform is designed to move the racks and associated specimen tubes off the horizontal platform and identify them for the host control software. Look ahead barcode reader is used to read and identify barcodes of both samples and rack when the look ahead offline platform pulls a rack off horizontal platform .

Scheduling software in host computer optimizes the throughput of the instrument and uses the information provided by barcodes on each of the racks and sample tubes .

Movement of the offline look ahead platform is driven by an offline look ahead motor . Motor moves platform and a rack located thereon in a y axis direction e.g. in a direction perpendicular to the long axis of horizontal platform to present racks and sample tubes to bar code reader . A number of optical sensors are present on the look ahead offline platform . For example a look ahead offline rack optical sensor determines the presence of a rack on the platform. This sensor is located on the top rear of the look ahead offline platform . A look ahead offline platform home optical sensor determines the horizontal y axis home position for the look ahead offline platform. Sensor is located behind the horizontal platform near barcode reader . A look ahead offline platform step optical sensor determines the horizontal y axis position for the look ahead offline platform. This sensor is located behind the horizontal platform on the rotational drive gear. Rack sensor communicates with circuit board and each sensor electrically communicates with system through backplane .

The STAT drawer is designed to provide the user the ability to place a rack with samples at the head of the queue for immediate processing by instrument . Rack is placed just prior to aspiration offline platform so it will be moved onto platform as soon as the current rack is finished. No other action is required by the user aspiration offline platform will automatically transfer the rack and sample information to the scheduling software in host .

A sensor e.g. such as a mechanical plunger type sensor located on the underside of STAT drawer determines the status of the STAT drawer .

The aspiration offline platform is designed to move the racks and associated specimen tubes off the specimen handler horizontal platform identify them for the software and provide an aspiration location for the sample handler assembly which includes a robotically controlled sample aspiration probe . As with barcode reader aspiration barcode reader associated with aspiration offline platform is used to identify both the rack and individual tube when aspiration offline platform pulls them off of the horizontal platform . Typically this is just confirming the information obtained by barcode reader of the look ahead offline platform but occasionally e.g. when STAT drawer is used barcode reader will be providing new information to the scheduling software.

Similar to look ahead platform aspiration or sample offline platform is driven by a motor . Motor moves platform and a rack located thereon in a y axis direction e.g. in a direction perpendicular to the long axis of horizontal platform to present racks and sample tubes to aspiration bar code reader .

The number of optical sensors are present on the aspiration offline platform . For example an aspiration offline rack optical sensor located on the top rear of aspiration offline platform determines the presence of rack on the platform. Aspiration offline home optical sensor e.g. located behind horizontal platform near the barcode reader determines the horizontal y axis home position for aspiration offline platform . An aspiration offline step optical sensor e.g. located behind the horizontal platform on the rotational drive gear determines the horizontal y axis position for the aspiration offline platform .

Sensor communicates with rack sense circuit board and all of sensors and communicate with backplane .

Horizontal platform is designed to provide a stable horizontal surface for rack movement input and output areas for sample trays and manual rack input and output areas .

Manual input area provides the ability to add single racks to the queue. Manual input area is located at the far left of specimen handler assembly . When a rack is placed here sensor is tripped notifying software in host . Finger moves the rack to the end of the queue. An optional manual input optical sensor e.g. located behind the back wall of the specimen handler includes a mirror mounted on the specimen handler front. Placement of a rack in manual input area breaks the reflected beam of sensor .

Input tray area provides a location for the placement of a sample tray . Once a sample tray is placed it essentially becomes part of horizontal platform over which racks are moved.

Input tray area sensor e.g. located underneath specimen rack handler assembly is preferably a magnetic reed type sensor. Sample trays are equipped with magnets in the base to trip sensor when the sample tray is properly placed.

Look ahead area provides a storage area for racks awaiting aspiration. Output holding area provides an output area for racks after sample aspiration . Typically output holding area will only have racks when the output tray is missing or full.

Output tray area provides a location for the placement of a sample tray . Output tray area sensor e.g. located underneath specimen rack handler is preferably a magnetic reed type sensor similar to sensor . As described above sample trays are equipped with magnets in the base that trip sensor when such sample tray is properly placed. An optional output tray capacity sensor e.g. located behind the specimen handler monitors how many racks are on the output tray . After a specified number of racks e.g. ten have moved onto output tray area such sensor trips software in host to request the customer to remove and empty the output tray.

In one embodiment sample trays are designed to carry ten racks . Sample trays allow large numbers of racks to be added to or removed from the instrument with ease. When not in the instrument being carried a self locking mechanism is used to ensure the racks cannot inadvertently slide off from the tray . The self locking mechanism automatically unlocks when the rack is placed on the instrument or on a flat surface.

During typical operation of specimen handler assembly sample tubes are loaded into racks that contain up to five bar coded sample tubes in each rack. Optionally racks are loaded into a tray that hold up to ten racks in a queue awaiting tube barcode reading and sample processing. Controls and calibrators are also loaded into the same racks and are appropriately barcoded for identification. After tray is placed in the input tray area on horizontal platform input tray sensor detects tray . Finger retracts and moves all the way to the left of manual input area . Finger then rotates to the horizontal position and moves racks to the right until the look ahead rack sensor detects a rack on the look ahead offline platform . Look ahead offline platform retracts allowing the look ahead barcode reader to read the barcodes.

After reading the barcodes the look ahead offline platform returns to the original position. Finger moves the rack off the look ahead offline platform and onto the look ahead area . The rack is here until aspiration offline platform is available. Once the aspiration offline platform is available finger moves the rack onto aspiration offline platform until the aspiration rack sensor detects the rack on aspiration offline platform . Aspiration offline platform then retracts into SPM allowing the aspiration barcode reader to read the barcodes.

Next specimen robot see obtains samples from the sample tubes in the rack . Aspiration offline platform then returns to the original position. Finger moves the rack off the aspiration offline platform to the output area . The rack is held in the output holding area until the output tray area is available. Finger moves the rack onto a tray in output tray area . Finally the output tray is removed from instrument .

Referring to reaction vessel handing and supply assembly generally includes a reaction vessel supply RV supply and two reaction vessel handlers and . RV handlers and their associated motors and components are also collectively referred to herein as RV handler sub assembly or simply RV handlers .

Referring to RV storage sub system includes a lugged belt that loops through bulk storage bin or hopper which has a funnel shaped section at its bottom. A geared down stepper motor is used to drive belt through storage bin mixing RVs and collecting RVs with pick up lugs attached to belt . RVs that are picked up and reach the top of the belt s travel are detected by an optical through beam detector . Two static wedge shaped belt guards and a fan style blower with duct remove RVs that are incorrectly presented by lugs before they reach optical beam detector . Lugged belt is stopped whenever a RV is detected. RV handler is then used to transfer the detected RV into incubator carousel for use in the assay process.

The RV supply bin includes a front loading style door that acts as a chute when opened to gather any errant RVs. The operator can add RVs to the RV Supply without interrupting instrument operation at any time by simply opening door and adding RVs. RV supply belt also known as hopper belt is located at the rear of the RV supply bin .

RV supply bin has two sensors to determine the RV level in supply hopper . Sensors are preferably infrared through beam sensors. In one embodiment sensors provide feedback when the RV level drops below an amount sufficient to provide a specified amount of run time e.g. over an hour of instrument run time at 100 RVs per hour and to detect when the RV supply bin has been refilled. For example the high sensor might detect an approximate RV full level as approximately 800 RVs and low sensor might be set for approximately 200 RVs.

Referring to the presence of an RV in a belt lug is determined by RV presentation optical sensors and . These sensors determine when RV has been picked up by RV Supply belt and has arrived at the presentation position location where RV Handler picks up supply RVs . These sensors are located at the top of the supply belt .

In one embodiment sensors and are dual infrared through beam sensors that permit differentiation between a lug containing a RV as shown in and an empty lug. Beam sensors are positioned so that RV if present breaks the beam of sensor and beam of sensor is broken by belt lug .

As an empty lug passes through the detection point sensors and see the logic pattern in . As a lug containing a RV passes through the detection point sensors and see the logic pattern in . The dotted line indicates when the hopper control software would stop the belt and wait for the RV handler to remove RV . Both through beam sensors preferably employ a modulated signal to reduce sensitivity to ambient light conditions.

Referring now to RVs are moved from the supply bin to the presentation point by a motor and belt drive system. Motor is preferably although not necessarily located below supply bin as shown. Motor and its associated gears e.g. lower pulley and drive belt move lug belt around lower and upper pulleys and respectively. As belt turns lugs move through RV supply bin and pick up RVs . Lugs are preferably specially designed to pickup one RV at a time regardless of the RV s orientation within the supply bin .

Fan and belt guards are designed to ensure that only one RV is presented to RV Handler . Fan here mounted on the side of the RV Supply Bin essentially blows any incorrectly positioned or additional RVs off belt lugs . Belt guards located in the vertical corridor between the RV supply bin and presentation point provide a direct physical barrier to incorrectly positioned or additional RVs on belt lugs . Additionally a stainless steel rooftop may be mounted to the Supply Bin body to physically remove any improperly positioned RVs.

Referring to the block diagram of optical sensors and hopper sensors and are associated with one or more printed wire assemblies e.g. PWA which communicates with backplane . In addition RV supply motor and belt are monitored by RV supply step optical sensor to determine if step loss is occurring during movement of belt . In this embodiment sensor is preferably located on rotational gear used to move the belt. When a step loss error or collision is detected the drive current to motor is removed in an effort to minimize the possibility of damaging carousel or the object it has collided with. During the movement of motor the control software calculates the exact time when the encoder will be in the middle of either a slot or the adjoining rib. The software then checks at each calculated time to compare the sensor state to the predicted state. If a discrepancy is detected a position error is reported.

In one embodiment reaction vessels are presented within the following approximate tolerances Z axis 1.0 mm Y axis 1.0 mm X axis 0.5 mm. In some cases such tolerances may be preferable to help avoid reaction vessel jamming in the pickup lugs or not being correctly placed into incubation carousel .

The drive torque applied to the belt may be increased by the use of a reduction drive e.g. a 15 80 or similar reduction drive on motor . Also belt pulleys preferably have ridged edges to maintain belt alignment and are preferably mounted with their axes approximately square to belt centerline. A user interface e.g. interface on computer notifies a user when the RV supply hopper needs to be refilled.

Optionally the RV supply assembly includes a timeout feature. For example if the RV belt is unable to pickup and present a RV within a defined period of time e.g. 30 or more seconds from the last presentation the RV supply assembly will cease operation and the instrument will notify the user via the user interface .

In use host computer or a control subsystem determines that an RV is required and causes stepper motor to drive belt through supply bin mixing RVs and collecting RVs with pick up lugs . RVs that are improperly picked up or positioned are then removed by belt guards and a fan before they reach presentation point . At presentation point optical beam detectors detect the presence of an RV and a lug . The lugged belt is stopped when a RV is detected within a lug . RV handler then transfers the presented RV into incubator carousel for use in the assay process.

Referring back to RV handler assembly cooperates with specimen rack handler incubation and separation carousel assembly RV storage supply and RV waste assemblies. Each RV handler interfaces with different components of the instrument . In some cases they may interact with the same component but they do so at different locations. TABLE 1 provides examples of RV handler interaction with other components. Additional details of the interaction between the various component modules and subassemblies will be described herein in more detail in later sections.

Referring to each of the RV handler mechanisms and includes a common horizontal linear travel axis y axis upon a common gantry and separate but preferably although not necessarily similar gripper assemblies and which include a vertical linear axis z axis and gripping axis theta axis .

Each RV Handler is associated with a horizontal drive a vertical drive and a gripper assembly respectively. Note that because RV handler include essentially the same components and sub assemblies the terms RV handler assembly horizontal drive vertical drive gripper assembly etc. are occasionally used herein without using a or b to designate a particular RV handler.

Horizontal Drives move the RV Handlers horizontally e.g. along y axis along gantry . Motor and associated gearing are mounted on the stationary gantry . RV Handlers are attached by slide to rail and attached to motor by belt such that motor and associated gearing drive belt and move RV handler along rail .

The horizontal range of motion for RV Handler is constrained to travel over the RV supply incubator carousel e.g. forward half only separation carousel and the detector robot . The horizontal range of motion for RV Handler is constrained to travel over incubator carousel rear half only and separation carousel .

Horizontal drive preferably has two sensors to determine its position. A horizontal home optical sensor preferably determines the horizontal home position of the RV handlers . Horizontal step optical sensor preferably determines the horizontal position of the RV Handlers . Both sensors are preferably located on gantry .

Vertical Drive moves grippers vertically z axis on the RV Handlers . Motor and gearing of vertical drive are mounted in the moving RV Handler . Gripper assembly rides on a rail bearing located vertically within the RV Handler and is attached to the motor and gearing by a belt and pulleys . In this embodiment although not necessarily vertical range of motion for both RV handlers is approximately the same and constrained by hard stops located at the end of the rail bearing.

To prevent RV handlers from dropping a RV when the power is interrupted either power loss or e stopped the vertical drive control circuitry incorporates a dynamic braking feature preferably. During dynamic braking gripper head is prevented from free falling by the back EMF created in the motor winding. The dynamic braking circuitry works by shorting the windings of the vertical axis stepper motors with a relay connected to the 24V power supply. Since the drive current to the stepper motor is provided by the same power supply it ensures that dynamic braking is enabled as soon as the drive current is interrupted.

Vertical drive has two sensors to determine its position. A vertical home optical sensor preferably located on the RV handler determines the vertical home position of the RV Handler. A vertical step optical sensor also preferably located on RV handler determines the vertical position of the RV handler .

Sealed ball bearings can be are used in both jaws to prevent wear and increase alignment accuracy. Due to the light axial spring load on the gripper jaws no spacer has been used in this embodiment to separate the bearings in each jaw. Both jaws are lightly spring loaded against the alignment pivot pin . shows the alignment pin gripper jaws and spring . A nyloc nutsert prevents pivot pin from moving. The thread on the alignment pin is preferably cut undersize to permit alignment to the gripper motor bracket .

Referring to gripper assemblies use one or more e.g. two optical sensors to determine if an RV is present in the gripper jaws . Sensors are located on each RV Handler . Each sensor monitors one side of gripper jaws .

In one embodiment flexible wire cables are used to prevent fatigue failures for the moving components on the vertical and horizontal axes. The thin nature of the cable helps minimize stresses within the wires thus maximizing fatigue life. The cables are capable of e.g. greater than 5 000 000 moving cycles with a minimum bend diameter of approximately 40 mm or more. The cables are preferably constrained in both the vertical and horizontal directions to limit bending. The cables are also routed to avoid rubbing on potentially damaging surfaces. Strain relief is provided by mechanically clamping the cables to a connection point.

Gripper jaws are aligned in the x axis e.g. left to right in by adjusting alignment pin that runs through the gripper jaws.

Referring to in one embodiment gripper jaws include two jaw pieces and . Each jaw piece and includes grip features e.g. and to position and hold RVs. Examples of grip features for a primary and secondary jaw piece are shown however other grip patterns or features may be used. In this embodiment primary jaw of includes two contoured grip features and configured to position and hold RVs in a vertical orientation. A rib helps prevent upward sliding of an RV. Secondary jaw piece includes a single point of contact that contacts the side of an RV and helps hold it against features and of primary jaw. A second smaller feature only contacts the upper flange of an RV see if the RV is pulled vertically out of jaws . An upper rib prevents upward shifting of an RV in the event of a collision.

Referring to the block diagram of motors and of RV handlers and communicate with backplane circuit board through RV handler gantry circuit board . RV handler vertical motor communicates through RV handler head circuit board . Gripper motor communicates with gripper motor board which communicates with RV handler head circuit board . One skilled in the art will appreciate that a different arrangement of circuit boards or other control features may be employed.

Referring to a typical reaction vessel according to the present invention employs a non nesting design compatible with the hopper style RV supply system described herein. RV generally is dimensioned as a tube or vessel having a body and an open end . External ribs at end of RV opposite opening help prevent nesting with other RVs. In addition a flange provides an upper stop surface for grippers and extends internally to form a lip on the inside of RV opening to further reduce possibility of RV nesting. A locating shoulder provides a lower stop surface for grippers and may be used to support RV when placed in a nest or carousel such as incubation and separation carousel . RV preferably includes similar internal geometry as the existing B R RVs BIO RAD part no. 223 9391 over the bottom half of the RV.

During use RV Handler removes an RV from RV Supply as described previously and places RV in incubator carousel see . Then sample and reagent are added to RV using sample handler assembly and reagent robot assembly respectively as described below. RV is incubated for a specified amount of time chemistry dependent . RV Handler then moves RV from the incubator carousel to the separation carousel where the sample undergoes a wash and separation process within RV .

After the wash and separation process RV Handler moves RV from separation carousel back to incubator carousel . Additional reagents or conjugates are added if need. Incubation and washing are repeated as required by the particular assay. After assay preparation is complete RV handler then moves the RV from the incubator carousel or in some cases from wash and separation carousel or some other location to the detector transfer robot . Typically interaction of RV with the RV handlers is finished at this point.

Each RV Handler and is capable of adjustment and alignment with other components of system . For example 

Specimen probe is designed to aspirate and dispense specimens and be easily cleaned in clean station . Sample robot preferably includes a probe mount for holding sample probe and moves probe in the y and z directions e.g. horizontally along gantry and rail bearing and vertically to engage sample tubes and RVs . Similar to RV Handlers which are located on opposite side of gantry sample robot is driven by a horizontal and vertical motors such as stepper motors see . One or more optical sensors provide accurate monitoring of probe position.

Generally sample handler aspirates a sample from the specimen rack handler and dispenses the sample into an reaction vessel held on incubator carousel assembly . Sample handler monitors specimen probe for any loss of function or blockage minimizes dead volume required using liquid level sensing and minimizes the amount of sample used. Sample handler assembly also cleans the specimen probe to minimize any carryover between samples and or reagents and provides the ability to sample various volumes.

Sample or specimen probe is designed to aspirate and dispense samples and undergo easily cleaned. Referring to sample probe includes a head for engaging with probe mount of robot and a tapered tip . Internal diameter of the lumen of probe is preferably reduced at tip to enhance dispense accuracy. Sample probe preferably uses a dual cavro pump system discussed below with respect to system fluidics to aspirate dispense and clean. A smaller e.g. 250 L syringe performs the aspiration and dispense functions while a larger e.g. 2.5 mL syringe performs the cleaning function. Probe lumen is fluidly connected with system fluidics through tube see attached to probe mount . In a preferred embodiment sample probe is replaceable and shares a common design with reagent probe . Additional features of the sample reagent probes are described in section 5.3.5 below.

Sample probe is preferably mounted on an electrically insulated material which facilitates the operation of the sample handlers liquid level sensing LLS system described below.

Sample robot is designed to mount the sample probe and move the probe in vertical and horizontal directions along gantry . Referring to stepper motors and provide the motion in each axis using a pre tensioned belt e.g. belt of connects to horizontal motor on opposite end of gantry . Optical sensors provide accurate monitoring of the probe position. For example a horizontal step optical sensor determines the horizontal position of sample robot . This sensor is preferably located on the gantry. Optionally a horizontal home optical sensor also located on gantry determines the horizontal home position of the sample robot . Similar to RV handlers vertical home optical sensors and vertical step optical sensors can be located on sample robot may be used to determine the vertical home position and instantaneous position respectively of robot .

The LLS system is designed to detect the entrance and exit of the sample probe from liquid. The LLS uses the change in capacitance that occurs when a probe enters or exits liquid. Due to the small change in capacitance that occurs stray capacitance is minimized by electrically isolating the sample probe using a relatively non conducting probe head and mount compared with conducting body of probe .

Sample blockage detection includes a pressure sensor that monitors the pressure variations that occur during aspirating or dispensing samples. The pressure ranges that occur during normal good aspiration and dispense are well known. When a probe becomes blocked the pressure variations change and fall outside of the known values. When this occurs an auto recovery is initiated by host . Probe is cleaned using pre defined protocols. If this does not correct the problem the user is notified to take corrective action.

Referring again to clean station mounted on SPM chassis near the incubation and separation carousel is designed to clean probe . Probe is cleaned before and after each sample aspiration and dispense. To achieve the carryover specifications a two stage clean station is used. In the first clean stage probe discharges directly into drain which carries contaminated liquid away . Then in the second clean stage the probe moves into a well where liquid e.g. wash buffer is pumped through the probe and fills well . In this stage the inside and outside of probe tip are washed. Vacuum extraction through port is used to remove used wash fluid .

In use after sample probe is cleaned in the clean station probe moves vertically to the home position over a specimen rack located on aspiration platform of rack handler . Robot moves probe vertically down until specimen liquid is detected by the LLS system . After liquid detection the sample robot moves a fixed distance further into the liquid and the specimen is aspirated. During aspiration blockage detection system monitors the aspiration pressure to determine if the sample probe is blocked either partially or completely . Additionally during aspiration the sample robot moves the probe down to ensure the probe stays in the liquid. After aspiration sample robot moves to vertical home position. During this movement the LLS system monitors the liquid level to ensure the probe exit from the liquid is at an expected position.

Specimen handler assembly then moves horizontally along gantry to incubator carousel and down to set position for specimen dispense. The specimen is dispensed into an RV on the incubator carousel . Sample Robot then moves sample probe back up to the vertical home position. Specimen handler assembly moves horizontally back to clean station stage one clean position . Sample robot then moves sample probe down to the clean station and discharges the over aspirate volume and a set amount of buffer into clean station . Sample robot moves sample probe to the stage two clean position . Wash Buffer is pumped through the sample probe into the clean station to clean both the inside and outside of the probe. Finally sample robot returns to the vertical home position.

In one embodiment the reagent carousel preferably includes twenty or more variable reagent pack or kit positions . Two or more of the positions preferably contain a detector clean kit 70 isopropyl alcohol and a detector calibration kit two bead sets stored in separate bottles . The assay panel reagent kits each preferably contain up to four liquid reagents. Also the reagent motor movement is bi directional. The reagent carousel is chilled to about 2 8 C. while the assay incubator is kept at about 37 C. 0.5 C. . The temperature of the refrigerated reagent compartment is maintained by compressed liquid refrigeration mounted beneath the incubator.

Additional details regarding components and sub assemblies of reagent storage assembly are described below.

Reagent cooler maintains a relatively constant ambient temperature e.g. between approximately 8 C. and 10 C. within the reagent storage . Reagent cooler accomplishes this using an insulated housing and a vapor compressor or other refrigeration mechanism to cool the reagents.

In one embodiment cooler includes a 12 24V vapor compressor unit with a charge of e.g. 132A refrigerant an air cooled condenser to dissipate heat a fan to force air through the condenser a drier to remove excess moisture from the refrigerant a capillary tube expansion valve a stainless steel tub evaporator or housing which surrounds the reagents and provides cooling insulation around the evaporator tub to provide insulation and prevent external condensation and an insulating lid to prevent heat flow into the system.

Evaporator tub is preferably stainless steel or the like and surrounded by structural foam insulation . The stainless steel provides high durability and consistency of manufacture while the structural foam minimizes the heat conducted into the refrigeration system through the evaporator walls and reduces condensation on the exterior surfaces of the reagent storage . A structural foam thickness of approximately 17 millimeters is desirable to helps prevent potential condensation under ambient conditions of 40 C. and 90 RH however other types and thicknesses of insulation may be used. A capillary tube can be used as a refrigeration expansion valve.

Reagent cooler lid provides insulation for the top of reagent cooler and access to the reagent carousel for the reagent probe reagent pack piercer and reagent pack lid opener . In a preferred embodiment reagent cooler lid is moved by the same motor and drive assembly as the pack piercer discussed below. A lid home optical sensor e.g. similar to other optical sensor described herein determines the home position of lid . This sensor preferably is near pack piercer lid motor and gearing .

Referring to rotational drive is a belt driven turntable powered drive motor. In one embodiment rotational drive employs a 48 volt motor although other motors may be used. Rotational drive moves rotates carousel the reagent packs rotationally to the various positions required for pack piercing reagent aspiration and pack presentation for replacement .

Agitation drive performs the two functions of agitating the reagent bottles and lifting the reagent carousel up to the installation removal position. Preferably the same drive motor is used in both functions. A simple clutch of two pins moving in slots on a lead screw sun gear assembly e.g. see is used to accommodate each function. The agitation drive agitates the reagent bottles by rotating lead screw sun gear assembly e.g. a the 75 millimeter lead screw sun gear assembly back and forth. The sun gear then rotates two rows of planetary gears which include heads upon which the reagent bead bottles sit.

Planetary gears include a plastic bushing which sits on a stainless steel bearing to eliminate potential corrosion. Planetary gears are supported on 3 mm stainless steel pins with spherical tops. In a preferred embodiment sizing and finish of the pin was chosen to minimize wear between the pin and the hub of the planetary gear. The pin length was chosen to elevate the planetary gear hub above any fluid that may be present in the drive mechanism.

The motor agitation lifts or lowers the reagent carousel by rotating pins in either direction and engaging the lead screw. Once the pins have engaged the lead screw sun gear the reagent carousel is raised or lowered. To balance the friction forces while raising and lowering the lifting platen vertical guide pins are positioned symmetrically on the turntable. In this embodiment a 75 mm lead screw was chosen to provide stability for the lifting platen in the raised position. The lead screw sun gear and platen gear materials were selected for their noise and wear reduction properties. Example gears and suggested suitable materials are listed below in TABLE 2.

An agitation drive home optical sensor located on the rotational gear driven by the agitation drive motor can be used to determine the rotational home position of the Agitation Drive.

An agitation drive proximity sensor can be used to determine a vertical home position of the agitation drive and to determine if a reagent carousel is loaded. This sensor is preferably located on a post that penetrates the tub floor.

The vertical position of the lifting platen can be determined by rotating the turntable to align a pin e.g. steel pin on the bottom of the lifting platen and the proximity sensor. The lifting platen can then be homed by lowering the platen until the pin actuates the proximity sensor. The proximity sensor detects the presence of a reagent carousel by detecting one or more pins for example four steel pins that are pushed to the same level as the home steel pin when a reagent carousel is loaded. In one embodiment proximity sensor is a reed switch.

A rotational drive home optical sensor can be used to determine the rotational home position of rotational drive . This sensor is preferably located on the rotation gear driven by the rotational drive motor.

The addition of a reagent pack to carousel may cause the agitation drive to agitate the reagent packs continuously for four minutes to ensure the complete suspension of the bead.

Referring to reagent pack barcode reader views barcodes on reagent packs See through a heated window on the reagent cooler . In one embodiment barcode reader type is a MICROSCAN 710 reader. Other barcode readers are known and may be suitable.

The barcode reader window is heated to prevent external and internal condensation. The electrical resistance of the heating element is e.g. between 30 100 Ohms. The barcode reader heated window operates whenever reagent storage is refrigerated. The control algorithm is a simple open loop that modulates the drive current to window to match the resistance of the window and the ambient temperature.

Referring to the embodiment depicted in prior to use both the bead and conjugate reagents are stored in packs contained within reagent carousel . Reagent carousel is removable and has slots for holding up to twenty or more reagent packs . Each pack has capacity for up to four bottles e.g. 2 bead bottles and 2 conjugate bottles. In some cases diluent or other reagent fluids may be provided. Whether each bottle gets used in a particular pack is chemistry dependent. All reagent packs are identifiable e.g. barcoded preferably during the manufacturing process. Barcode includes information such as reagent type bead lot expiration date etc. Barcode is preferably located on the outer end of reagent pack enabling identification after it is inserted into one of slots of carousel .

To limit reagent and conjugate evaporation as well as preventing dust and other particles entering the bottles the reagent pack also termed reagent kit or reagent cartridge design incorporates two levels of seals. A primary foil seal covering each bottle is used to prevent spillage and evaporation during shipping and prior to use. A secondary seal or flip top lid covers all reagent bottles in pack. The lid can be connected to a pushrod mechanism inside the individual reagent pack and spring loaded in the closed position as shown in . As the pack lid opener pushes down on the pushrod as described below lid is forced open on this individual pack.

Examples of a bead reagent bottles are shown in . Reagent bottles include an access hole at top of bottle to allow reagent transfer robot access. A lip on top edge serves as an attachment point for foil sealing which covers hole until reagent is ready for use at with time foil seal is pierced by pack piercer . A vertical rib on the side of bottle promotes vertical mixing of the bead suspension. Without such rib or other mechanism significant vertical gradients in bead concentration may exist even with high levels of agitation. Radial ribs across bottom of bottle engage planetary gear heads to facilitate agitation when the beads have settled out of suspension. A circumferential rib on bottom helps centralize bottle on planetary gear heads . A relatively conical or tapered bottom helps minimize dead volume. During storage outside of the instrument or transportation the beads may settle out of suspension and typically concentrate in the lowest point in the bead bottle which in this case is an approximately flat bottom e.g. approximately 6 mm in diameter to distribute settled beads. Other versions of the bead bottle have a conical center however when the beads settled they may form a tight clump in the center of the bottle and may be difficult to re suspend. With a flat portion on the bottom settled beads form a thin film across the entire flat surface instead of clumping and may require less agitation during re suspension.

Reagent pack also termed reagent kit or cartridge can be stored on the instrument once opened and includes the appropriate reagents to carry out sample testing wash solution is typically although not necessarily supplied separately by the system fluidics. In one embodiment each reagent kit includes one bottle of sample diluent one bottle of coated magnetic beads and one bottle of conjugate as shown in . Preferably pack includes enough reagent material to carry out a large number of tests e.g. 100 tests.

Reagent kits may contain reagents including beads that allow the end user to control and monitor the quality of results for each individual sample. For example two specific bead regions may be used. First in order to ensure an appropriate sample has been added to the reaction the M.A.D. system chemistry can employ a bead called Serum Verification Bead. This bead ensures that either serum or plasma was used in the assay and that the appropriate volume of sample has been added to the reaction. If samples other than serum or plasma i.e. urine cerebral spinal fluid nasal aspirates etc. are used in the assay or if the incorrect volume of sample is added to the reaction vessel the Serum Verification Bead will identify a possible issue and flag the results. Second in order to ensure consistency of reading by the lasers within detector the system chemistry can employ a bead called Internal Standard Bead. This bead adjusts for variable laser detector response standardizing the laser for each read.

Reagent carousel also provides an interface between the reagent bottles and the agitation gears . Agitation of each reagent bottle about its vertical axis assists to maintain bead homogeneity within the reagents. As described above reagent storage design rotates individual reagent bottles with an oscillatory motion to achieve consistent homogeneity. The bottle design includes a vertical rib to promote mixing both radially and vertically within the bead suspension. As shown in each Reagent Pack contains 2 bead bottles which are agitated by rotating each container about its vertical axis.

Reagent temperature sensors may be used to monitor the temperature of the reagent storage . Reagent storage utilizes thermistors temperature sensors for example two sets of two sensors. One set of thermistors referred to as air sensors measure the air temperature within the reagent cooler . These sensors provide the primary feedback for the temperature control algorithm. The second set referred to as the wall sensors measure the temperature of the evaporator wall. The feedback from these sensors is used to prevent excessive refrigeration of the evaporator and potential icing problems. Redundant temperature sensors are used to assist in troubleshooting during service and maintenance.

Referring to reagent pack piercer is a sub system within the reagent storage assembly of the MAD instrument . Reagent pack piercer is used to open the primary seal on each reagent bottles in a pack just prior to the first reagent aspiration from that reagent pack . Once opened the primary seal cannot be closed. The secondary seal or reagent pack lid is used to prevent evaporation after the primary seal is opened.

Reagent pack piercer located on reagent cooler lid includes a drive mechanism attached to the rear of the reagent storage and a piercer arm which extends over the reagent cooler to actuate a number of piercer pins in this case four as reagent packs in this example are designed to hold up to four reagent bottles . Piercer arm also supports the reagent storage insulation lid and reagent pack lid opener mechanism . The reagent pack piercer is used to open the primary seals on reagent bottles prior to the first reagent aspiration from the reagent pack . The primary pack seals are opened by driving the piercer pins down through the sealing foil and to create a set of holes that match the diameter of the piercer pin tips see . The piercer pins are then retracted so reagent can be aspirated from the reagent pack.

In this embodiment pack piercer and the reagent cooler lid use the same motor . Pack piercer uses the motor only when lid is in the closed position. Once the lid is closed the motor drives the lever arm with piercers at the end down into the reagent packs .

Drive mechanism preferably although not necessarily includes the following features. A ball screw drive is used to prevent high friction forces variations due the high working loads. A belt drive is used due to the space constraints and to provide easier service access to the motor. Lead nut is free to float within the retainer so that side loads do not cause excessive wear or degradation to the bearings within the nut. All side loads are carried by two sealed bearings on the lower ends of the drive links. A spherical bearing connects the drive links to the piercer arm to prevent possible binding caused by over constraining the mechanism.

A number of sensors or detectors are association with pack piercer . For example a pack piercer home optical sensor located on piercer arm determines the home position of pack piercer from which the piercers can lower into the reagent packs .

A pack piercer lid step optical sensor determines if step loss is occurring during either pack piercing or lid movement raising or lowering . This sensor is located on the rotational gearing used to pierce and move the lid.

The pack piercer also uses an optical sensor to detect the position where the insulation lid seals against the evaporator top edge. The design was chosen because it eliminates any problems due to backlash in the reagent lid system.

An optional lid closed sensor using a flag that breaks optical sensor e.g. see serves as a collision detection sensor during the lid lower action. If the lid is obstructed during the lower move the lid will move relative to the piercer arm the closed sensor is used to flag the collision notifying the software to halt the axis and prompt the user to remove the obstruction.

A pack detector mechanism detects the top of the reagent pack during the pierce stroke. This design uses a spring loaded pin with a flag that breaks an optical sensor . This particular design helps avoid problems due to variation in pack height or backlash in the pack piercer mechanism.

A pierce detector flag and sensor mechanism checks the height of each of the piercer pins at the completion of the pierce stroke e.g. an elevated pin indicates that the pierce has been incomplete. Because each of the piercer pins is spring loaded the height of the highest pin is measure via the pierce detector s spring loaded plate and an optical sensor .

A piercer interlock located on the main arm helps prevent piercer probe tips from being exposed while the reagent storage lid is raised.

A mechanical clutch shown in is optionally included as the drive mechanism may be sufficiently highly geared that a user is unable to back drive the mechanism even if power is not applied to the stepper motor. To prevent operators damaging themselves or the instrument clutch is monitored by a sensor . Disengaging the clutch will cause the instrument to Estop.

To ensure alignment to reagent carousel pack piercer optionally utilizes a floating guide block on the piercer tips . During initial part of the pierce stroke the floating guide block locates onto the carousel top and centers the piercer pins over the reagent bottles. In one embodiment guide block can tolerate a 2.0 mm or more of misalignment between the piercer mechanism and the reagent carousel.

The piercer pin guide block engages the reagent carousel and centers the piercer pins over the reagent bottles . The pack detection pin touches the top of the reagent pack trips the optical sensor and sets the pierce depth to which to drive. As the probe tip drives down the piercer probe tip shoulders bottom out on the bottle tops as shown in .

Spring loading on each pin takes up the difference in bottle heights while the piercer tip travels to the full pierce depth. At the pierce depth the pierce detection optical sensor senses whether all piercer pins have successfully pierced the pack. After successfully piercing the bottles the piercer pins are retracted and the reagent lid is returned to the closed position.

As mentioned above pack piercer is also used to open and close the reagent storage lid . During a typical open and close procedure reagent storage insulation lid is closed and held down by gravity. To open the lid piercer lifts the reagent storage insulation lid to the point where it engages on the underside of the external cover. The piercer continues to lift raising the external cover to a point where a pulley on the front of the piercer engages in a slot on the external cover. As the piercer continues to lift the external cover reaches a point where the gas strut overcomes the weight of the cover. The piercer is now required to hold the external cover down. When piercer reaches the top of its travel lid is fully open and reagent carousel can be raised. To lower the lid the same steps are repeated in reverse.

Reagent pack lid opener preferably performs up to 3 or more lid open and close operations per test. In one example based on 800 tests per day 365 days per for 7 years this equates to over 6 000 000 cycles.

Reagent pack lid opener is designed to minimize the amount it encroaches on the reagent storage lid insulation. In one example a lid insulation thickness of approximately 15 mm assists in minimizing or preventing condensation forming on the outside of the lid when the instrument is operating at high end of the temperature and humidity range.

Reagent pack lid opener optionally has a low profile to prevent clashing with the reagent transfer robot during aspiration e.g. see . The underside of the reagent transfer robot at the bottom of its vertical travel in each of the four aspiration positions defines the top of the operating space envelope.

Reagent pack lid opener is aligned to reagent pack piercer mechanism using a hole and slot with 2 dowel pins. As the pack piercer is aligned to the Reagent Carousel using a jig the lid opener mechanism inherits the same alignment.

To provide the maximum alignment tolerance between the reagent carousel and lid opener mechanism the design uses large diameter buttons in the reagent carousel and smaller actuation pins in the lid opener. The lid opening buttons in the reagent carousel provide accurate alignment with the lid hinge on each reagent pack and a large target area for the actuation pins .

During the open pack lid action the reagent pack opener gearing including a smaller gear attached to stepper motor and a larger gear that drives pin actuation arm overdrives the vertical axis to ensure packs lids are always opened fully. Larger gear in the vertical drive is spring loaded to prevent steploss. This permits the stepper motor to drive through the full range of movement regardless of where the carousel is positioned within the 2.0 mm vertical tolerance zone.

In one embodiment no direct steploss detection is used on the reagent pack lid opener . In the case of steploss on either the horizontal or vertical axis during the lid opening process will at worst cause the reagent transfer robot to steploss on its descent into the reagent pack . While the initial steploss is not detected respective home optical sensors e.g. vertical rotational home sensor and horizontal home sensor will sense that steploss has taken place on the vertical axis when actuation finger is raised to close the pack lid or on the horizontal axis when finger prepares to open well

As shown in reagent pack lid opener includes an actuation mechanism attached to the top of the reagent storage lid and actuation pins which are used to transfer the actuation force through lid to the top of the reagent carousel . Actuation pins generally termed actuation pin are located to align with the reagent pack lid above the aspiration points for each of in this case four reagent bottles. Lid opener uses a finger to depress the actuation pins and utilizes a spring e.g. or similar mechanism for each pin to return to the raised position. Finger has a horizontal axis which permits finger to travel between the four actuation pins .

In one example of typical operation the pack lid opener is initialized during instrument startup. Approximately 3 seconds prior to a reagent aspiration finger is moved to position it above the required actuation pin e.g. . This action is called Prepare to open pack lid . Just prior to a reagent aspiration finger is rotated down the actuation pin engages the reagent carousel and the reagent pack lid is opened. This action is called Open pack lid . The reagent robot then lowers reagent probe into the reagent pack reagent is aspirated and reagent probe is extracted. Finger is rotated to a raised position and spring force returns the actuation pin to the raised position. This action is called Close pack lid .

Reagent storage agitates the reagent pack for a period of time e.g. four minutes and reagent packs are ready for use. The reagent packs are periodically agitated to ensure uniform bead density throughout each bottle .

If the instrument requires a specific reagent in this case from a new pack the new reagent pack is rotated to a pack piercing position below pack piercer . Pack piercer then moves down opens the reagent pack lid and breaks the primary seal on all of the reagent and conjugate bottles within the pack. Pack piercer returns to the ready position allowing reagent pack lid to close. Reagent pack is rotated to the proper aspiration position based on which reagent or conjugate bottle is to be aspirated from . Pack lid opener opens the reagent pack lid . Reagent probe robot aspirates the desired amount of reagent or conjugate. Pack lid opener then closes the reagent pack lid .

The following TABLES 2 12 provide specifications for various reagent storage assembly components described above. The specifications and values provided in the table are intended only as examples according to one embodiment and are in no way limiting of the scope of the invention.

Probe shown with reagent robot in is threaded into probe head also termed probe mount . Reagent probe transfers reagents from the reagent storage to RVs on the incubator carousel . In the present embodiment reagent probe includes the same features as and is interchangeable with specimen probe described above with respect to . For example the tip of probe has a reduced internal diameter to increase fluid dispense velocity and aid dispense accuracy. Top of probe is preferably connected near probe mount to a reagent syringe pump e.g. a Cavro XP3000 syringe pump or the like by a length of rigid walled PTFE or similar tubing filled with buffer fluid.

Probe arm and head assembly includes probe mount the connection to the reagent syringe pump and a probe blockage sensor or pressure transducer. Arm and therefore the probe is adjusted horizontally by using the slotted screws attaching arm to the vertical column . As shown in this adjustment provides the radial alignment required to align the probe for accurate movement between clean station reagent storage e.g. four positions such as access ports and incubator carousel assembly e.g. two positions such as access ports and .

Head provides a connection for the fluidics tubing and the liquid level sensing to the reagent probe . Probe is preferably threaded into the underside of head with a small o ring providing a seal. Head provides adjustment of the probe in the z angular direction relative to the probe head. The adjustment is in the x y directions of the probe head only. Essentially this moves the probe tip in either the x y directions while the probe base threaded into the probe head is stationary.

A pressure transducer can be used to detect partial or complete blockages of the probe. The instrument monitors the pressure transducer for pressures outside the range of normal operation. Pressures outside of the normal operating range can be due to a number of factors. Error codes for each out of range pressure exist and assist with troubleshooting. The liquid level sensor probe mount reagent probe and tubing are optionally interchangeable with those used on specimen handler assembly .

Rotational motor assembly drives a belt and gear to rotate vertical column and thus reagent probe arm through a fixed arc as shown in . Hard stops are located at the end of the travel arc. During normal operation the travel arc is from incubator carousel assembly middle ring corresponding to port to the reagent carousel inner hole . Clean station is also included approximately at the center in the arc of motion.

The rotational home position of the probe preferably does not correspond to clean station center. This design allows the reagent robot clean position to be adjusted rotationally using motor assembly to turn vertical column .

Vertical column and motor assembly moves the reagent arm and probe in the vertical direction. The amount of travel is governed by different parameters for each specific location e.g. incubator carousel clean station and reagent storage . The vertical travel at the incubator carousel and clean station is set to a fixed position determined during instrument alignment procedures. Liquid level sensor determines the vertical travel at the reagent storage . Each parameter can be modified using a service program interface within the MAD host software. The vertical movement is accomplished using motor which employs a belt and gear system to move the top portion of the vertical column up and down. Additionally a spring is used to help hold column in the up position when holding current is removed from the motor. Essentially this prevents the probe from becoming damaged by collision with other parts when the instrument power is turned off.

Base is mounted to the instrument SPM chassis by two or more bolts and provides a stable platform on which all other reagent robot components are mounted. Base also incorporates hard range of motion stops that physically prevent reagent robot from moving outside the defined range of motion.

Example characteristics of vertical axis and theta axis stepper motors that may be employed in reagent robot are shown in tables 13 and 14 respectively. In both examples below stepper motors for the vertical and theta axis are attached to a pre tensioned belt which is attached to the vertical arm of reagent robot .

Referring to power in and rotational printed circuit board PCB provides a single electrical connection to the instrument via backplane operational power and sensing to horizontal or rotational motor and operational voltages drive sensing voltages to all other reagent robot components. The input signals from the instrument are received via a large ribbon cable attached to the PCB. The operational power and sensing for the rotational motor is distributed to the motor and optical sensor by two wire connections to the PCB. The remaining operational voltages for the rest of reagent robot components are transferred via a single cable to the vertical movement PCB . Rotational step optical sensor determines the rotational position of the Reagent Robot and provides step loss monitoring. The sensor is located on the rotational drive motor assembly . A rotational home optical sensor not separately shown preferably determines the rotational home position of reagent robot . This sensor is located on the power in and rotational PCB . If replacement is required the entire PCB is replaced. PCB in this embodiment is located on a bracket that is directly mounted to base as shown in .

Vertical movement PCB provides power and sensing to the vertical motor and power to the liquid level sense PCB . The operational power and sensing for vertical motor is distributed to motor and optical sensor by two wire connections to PCB . Liquid level sense PCB is connected via a ribbon cable. Vertical movement PCB is mounted on the non moving portion of vertical column . Vertical step optical sensor determines the vertical position of reagent robot and provides step loss monitoring. This sensor is located on vertical drive motor assembly and is connected to the vertical movement PCB . Vertical home optical sensor not separately shown is located on PCB and determines the vertical home position of the robot . If replacement of this sensor is required the entire PCB is replaced.

Liquid level sense PCB uses capacitance sensing to determine when the probe comes into contact with a liquid. The instrument uses this information to determine the probe insertion depth into the reagent pack and reagent volume remaining within the bottle. Liquid level sense PCB is mounted on the moving portion of the vertical column . Additionally a ground lug from the reagent storage assembly is attached to the reagent robot to ensure proper operation of liquid level sensor .

In an example of typical operation of reagent robot probe is cleaned at the clean station . Reagent robot returns to the ready position over clean station . Reagent robot then rotates probe over a specific well e.g. port in reagent storage . Reagent robot then lowers the probe into the reagent pack and aspirates a specific volume of reagent. After aspiration reagent robot lifts the probe above the reagent storage assembly and rotates over the incubator carousel . Once over the proper location of incubator carousel robot lowers probe into a hole e.g. in the incubator carousel lid. Reagent robot then dispenses the reagent into an RV on the incubator carousel . After dispensing reagent the reagent robot raises the probe from incubator carousel and rotates probe to the center of the clean station . Finally reagent robot lowers probe into the clean station for cleaning

Incubator and separation carousel assembly interfaces with other sub modules and components of system e.g. as shown below in TABLE 15.

Referring to the incubator and separation carousel assembly has a number of components including e.g. an incubator lid an inner incubator carousel an outer separation carousel a separation carousel drive an incubator carousel drive a tub incubator chamber and a fan and heater assembly . Typically all of the components are mounted on or attached directly or indirectly to a main support casting that is attached to the main instrument chassis.

Incubator lid is insulated to maximize thermal performance and to minimize heat loss. A single large knurled nut located in the lid center is used for removal and replacement of lid . Holes in lid allow the RV handlers e.g. holes reagent transfer robot wash robot and specimen aspirate robot to access RVs located on either incubator carousel or separation carousel .

Incubator carousel holds a large number e.g. 100 RVs within two outer rings of forty RV receptacles each and one inner ring of twenty RVs. Outer two rings are used for incubating samples while the inner ring is used as RV storage only when temporary situations occur. For example a temporary storage occurs when instrument is unable to process the RVs to either the detector or the waste .

Incubator carousel is agitated at a frequency of e.g. 22 Hertz with an 6 millimeter amplitude peak to peak for approximately 3 seconds. Samples are agitated for approximately 29 of the time spent on incubator carousel . Other incubation parameters may be used.

TABLE 3 provides and example of which incubator carousel rings interface with the various other components of the instrument.

Referring to the block diagram of temperature sensors and are utilized to monitor the temperature of the incubator carousel . The incubator chamber interior temperature and the ambient incubator chamber housing temperature are monitored using dual thermistor assemblies respectively to provide redundancy. The thermistor assemblies are connected to the temperature sensor PCB mounted inside the incubation chamber which is covered to prevent fluid spills from damaging the circuit. The temperature sensor PCB is mounted to provide cable connection access from the outside of the incubator tub.

Separation carousel holds approximately 40 RVs in a single outer ring on an independently driven carousel e.g. driven by motor assembly . Separation carousel runs concentrically around the outside of incubator carousel . Separation carousel has several characteristics differentiating it from the incubator carousel . For example one differentiating characteristic is a number of magnets with backing plates installed in the inner portion of the separation carousel as shown in . Magnets hold the microspheres in the RV which is held in RV receptacle while wash buffer is added and removed as described above with respect to . Backing plates provide a secure base for the magnets as well as containing the magnetic field to separation carousel .

Additionally due to the high magnetic strength used separation carousel optionally has a steel magnetic shield installed between the separation carousel and the incubator carousel. Magnetic shield prevents stray magnetic field from interfering with the chemistries occurring on the incubator carousel .

The magnetic separation process is used to allow removal of spent sample and reagent following incubation as well as washing of the beads to remove non specifically bound sample and conjugate reagent. When a RV is placed into separation carousel magnets attract the beads into a patch on the inner wall of the RV. After a separation period of 30 90 seconds more preferably 55 65 seconds dependent on scheduler and timing the carousel moves the RV under the wash aspirate probes. The probes are driven to the bottom of the RV where they aspirate all the remaining fluid out of the RV without aspirating any of the beads. The attraction of the beads to separation magnets forces the bead patch to remain held to the RV wall. Once all the excess fluid has been removed the aspiration probes are retracted from the RV. Separation carousel positions the RV under the wash dispense probe where wash buffer is dispensed into the RV. The wash buffer flows over the bead patch and removes non specifically bound analyte and conjugate reagent. The separation and wash process is repeated a number of times as specified by the chemistry protocol.

Referring to separation carousel drive contains a servo motor a pulley an encoder ring tensioning spring and a timing belt . All these components work together to move separation carousel to locations required by the host software to complete various tasks e.g. RV movement wash buffer dispense or aspiration .

Servomotor which is commonly used in reagent storage drives is well suited to its role of slewing separation carousel back and forth. Pulley is sized to maintain proper meshing with timing belt . The pulleys and on the separation carousel and incubator carousel are preferably similar.

Encoder ring which is mounted on pulley allows the sensor to determine the position of the separation carousel .

Tensioning spring maintains a specific tension on timing belt throughout its operational lifetime. This reduces vibration noise and eliminates problems associated with belt wear. Tensioning spring is mounted to the motor mounting and the instrument chassis. Timing belts which are preferably the same or similar for both separation and incubator carousel is preferably although not necessarily a KEVLAR reinforced polyeruthane continuous timing belt.

A separation carousel rotational step optical sensor determines the rotational position of the outer carousel . The sensor is located in the incubator carousel housing on the rotational gear while the optical flags are located on the bottom of the rotational gear. The optical sensors use quadrature encoders to determine and monitor the position of the carousels. The following describes the operation of the sensors with quadrature encoders.

Quadrature encoders associated with quadrature optical sensor circuit board of provide feedback to the control software for the carousel drives . The quadrature encoders sense the encoder ring on each of the carousel pulleys providing feedback from the carousel side of the drive system and detecting belt breakage or slippage.

Each carousel has its home position identified by one slot on the step loss detection castellated ring which is 150 larger than the other slots. The home position is found by rotating the carousel until both sides of the slot have been detected. The carousel is then driven back to the center of the slot and is considered homed.

Both of the carousel motor drives in the assembly use a quadrature encoder for position feedback. Two techniques are used to monitor the drive positions during rotations and while static.

The basic feedback is provided by an optical quadrature encoder positioned under a slotted ring that is incorporated into the web of the large drive pulleys on each of the carousel drives. The encoder produces two slightly out of phase signals. The rotational direction of a slot passing between the sensor s detector and emitter is determined by the order in which the sensor signals change state.

The first technique used for tracking the carousel positions uses a high speed counter to track the total number of slots passed. Slots detected in clockwise direction are added to the total count while slots detected in counter clockwise direction are subtracted from the total. Due to the speed of the counter the cumulative slot count is capable of tracking slots during fast moves and agitation even where mechanical vibration causes effects similar to switch bounce. The counter output is predominantly used after a carousel move or after agitation to check that the carousels are in the correct position prior to interfacing with another device.

The second technique used for position tracking is used to detect loss of position control during moves and agitation. When an error or collision is detected the drive current to the motor is instantly removed in an effort to minimise the possibility of damaging the carousel or the object it has collided with. During a move or agitation the control software calculates the exact time when the encoder will be in the middle of either a slot or the adjoining rib. The software then checks at each calculated time to compare the sensor state to the predicted state. If a discrepancy is detected a position error is reported.

Incubator carousel drive is essentially the same or similar to the separation carousel drive except for the motor and bearing. While the separation carousel drive does not use a bearing the constant agitation of the incubator carousel benefits from the use of a bearing to provide impact and vibration cushioning. The demands on the incubator carousel motor slew and agitation suggest that this motor preferably is more durable and reliable than the motor used in the separation carousel. Additionally the bearing chosen provides both impact and vibration cushioning and prevention of bearing failure due to localized welding and consequent pitting.

Incubator carousel rotational step optical sensor determines the rotational position of the Incubator. The sensor is located in the incubator carousel housing underneath the rotational gear.

Incubator chamber is preferably fabricated from structural polyurethane foam to provide good thermal insulation. The thermal insulation is beneficial to prevent heat flow into the rest of the instrument and to provide a constant air temperature throughout the incubator. The incubator chamber minimizes the heat loss by insulating the casting minimizing air leakage through the timing belt slots and providing a cover for the wash aspirate and dispense probes. Incubator chamber also provides an overflow drain to prevent any liquid from reaching heater .

Additionally mounts for the reagent transfer robot and specimen transfer robot clean stations are preferably located on the incubator chamber.

The incubator assembly is heated to provide an optimised stable environment for the assay chemistry. A predefined warm up time for the incubator is preferable because the incubator is generally only constantly heated during assay chemistry.

To avoid adding mass to incubator carousel an air heating element and fan are beneficial to control temperature inside the incubator. Heater and fan are preferably automatically configured to permit either 110 240 volt compatibility when the instrument is configured to the source voltage.

A single use thermal fuse protects the heater element from any over temperature conditions that may occur. The nominal trip temperature for the thermal fuses is 70 C. 184 F. . Software will typically flag any thermal fuse trips or defective heater as a temperature out of range condition.

Fan is preferably equipped with a tacho output to enable detection of fan failure or error. Fan and heater assembly is removed from the bottom of the incubator and separation carousel assembly without requiring the accessing of either carousel.

Fan circulates the heated air around below the incubation carousel. Dual thermistors monitor the air temperature and provide feedback to the heater control circuitry . The air thermistors are mounted on the metal housing surrounding the drive mechanisms.

According to one embodiment typical operation of incubator and separation carousel assembly is as follows. An RV is removed from the RV supply and delivered to incubator carousel outer ring by RV Handler . Incubator carousel rotates the RV to the reagent dispense position where reagent is added. Incubator carousel then rotates the RV to the sample dispense position where sample is added. Incubator Carousel then agitates and incubates the RV.

After agitation and incubation of the sample in the RV incubator carousel rotates the RV to a RV pickup position where the RV is removed from the incubator carousel placed on separation carousel by RV Handler . The separation carousel rotates the RV to the wash aspirate probe position where the wash probe robot removes the liquid. Separation carousel rotates the RV to the wash dispense position where liquid is added to the RV.

After washing separation carousel rotates the RV to a RV pickup position where the RV is removed from the separation carousel and placed in the incubator carousel middle ring by RV Handler . If required the incubator carousel will also rotate the RV to accommodate any the addition of any other reagents. Incubator carousel holds and agitates the RV until the incubation time is completed. Incubator carousel then rotates the RV to a RV pickup position where the RV is removed by RV Handler and delivered to detector robot .

Referring to according to one embodiment a wash robot includes a wash probe head and column assembly a clean station and a wash dispense probe . Wash robot aspirates waste fluids from reaction vessels while the separation carousel holds the beads by magnetic force within the reaction vessels. The wash robot provides a uniform aspiration of liquid when aspirating from between one to four reaction vessels. The wash robot cleans all wash aspiration probes after use. Angled tip probes are preferred to minimize probe blockage however blockage detection sensors are used to detect blockage of any wash aspiration probe. The wash system also provides the wash buffer for washing and re suspending the beads.

Wash probe head and column assembly move the wash probes vertically to the following positions an RV aspirate position a probe cleaning position and a ready position. Wash probe head to which one or more probes are installed e.g. two four or more probes is mounted on the top of the column . Column is driven vertically using a stepper motor and belt drive.

Wash robot includes sensors home position and steploss. For example a wash probe vertical home optical sensor see determines the vertical home position of the wash probe head and column. This sensor is located on top of the wash robot housing. A wash probe rotational steploss optical sensor optionally determines if steploss during the vertical movement of the wash probes has occurred. An encoder wheel can be is mounted on the stepper motor . Horizontal wash motor and wash well are also optionally used. Motors and sensors with as sensor and preferably communicate with system through circuit board and backplane .

The clean station is mounted on a tilting axis which moves between a cleaning position and a retracted position. In the cleaning position the clean station is rotated into the path of probes . In the retracted position the clean station is rotated out of the probe path.

A clean station home optical sensor optionally determines the tilt home position of the clean station. In one embodiment a clean station home optical sensor is located on the rear of the wash probe housing and is tripped by a flag rotating on the stepper motor.

A wash probe blockage sensor optionally determines if a wash probe is blocked. Such a wash probe blockage sensor is preferably a conductive type sensor with one end mounted in the clean station and the other on the wash probes . If liquid remains in the clean station after cleaning then the wash probes did not perform the clean aspiration properly.

Wash dispense probe is mounted on the right side of wash robot . The Wash dispense probe dispenses a measured amount of wash fluid into the RVs located on the separation carousel. A FMI micropump located in the fluidics subsystem as described below provides the wash fluid through a fluid line . Wash dispense probe is mounted on a retractable lever arm which allows the probe to be rotated out of the way for service intervention.

During typical operation of the wash robot RV handler removes an RV from incubator carousel and places it on the separation carousel . RV contains a mixture of sample reagent and conjugate depending on how far the assay has progressed. Separation carousel moves the RV under one of the four wash probes after a predetermined separation time to allow the magnets to collect the beads against the RV wall . Wash robot in the ready state with its clean station retracted then lowers the wash probes into the RV to remove the liquid. Liquid is aspirated from the RV through the wash probe e.g. by a nominal 15 kPA vacuum. After aspirating fluid from the RV wash robot then raises the wash probes and clean station tilts forward under the wash probes. The Wash robot lowers the wash probes into the clean station and DI water fills the clean station. The liquid is aspirated from the clean station by a nominal 30 kPA vacuum. Wash robot then raises the wash probes and the clean station retracts. Next the separation carousel moves the RV under the wash dispense probe where wash dispense probe dispenses a measured amount of wash buffer into the RV. The amount of wash buffer depends on the type of assay being performed and the progress of the RV in the assay.

After a predetermined separation time to allow the magnets to collect the beads against the RV wall the separation carousel then moves the RV under one of the four wash aspirate probes. The RV is again presented to the wash probes and the wash probe liquid aspiration is repeated. Depending on the type of chemistry being performed the washing of the beads can occur a number of times.

After the last wash the RV is presented to the wash dispense probe and a resuspend volume of liquid is dispensed into the RV. Separation Carousel moves the RV to the RV Handler pickup position. RV Handler then removes the RV from the separation carousel and places it on the incubator carousel .

RV rotation arm and drive moves an RV from the putdown position e.g. by RV Handler on incubator carousel and presents it to the detector module probe for aspiration. A drive motor attached to a lead screw rotates and moves the arm vertically. The vertical movement is accomplished by rotating the arm until it hits a hard stop in this case the vertical structure or vertical stainless steel rod of detector robot then the lead screw continues to turn driving arm vertically either up or down .

Referring to the following sensors monitor the position and movement of the RV rotational arm and drive . A detector robot rotational home optical sensor located on detector robot housing is designed to determine the rotational and vertical home position of the detector robot . A detector robot rotation step optical sensor determines the rotational position of detector robot . This sensor is located on the rotational gearing above motor . Vertical positioning of the arm is controlled by parameters set within the software. Vertical alignment is performed during instrument installation. After the initial alignment modification of the alignment is only required when the distance between the detector module probe tip and the RV bottom exceeds 1.0 mm. An optimum distance is between 0.5 1 mm.

Referring again to downward arm motion at the pickup position triggers the action of the waste disposal lever . When the arm moves down waste disposal lever pushes the RV out of the rotational arm and into the waste chute . Waste disposal lever includes a prong and lever. The prong is used to push the RV up and out of the rotational arm and the lever pushes the RV over into the waste chute .

Clean station and drive raises and lowers the clean station to the detector module probe. Clean station and drive also uses a drive motor and lead screw to vertically move clean station . All the fluidics connections to the clean station are located on the bottom of the clean station. This allows the clean station to move freely up and down without tangling the fluidics tubing. Clean station has multiple fluid lines e.g. one input fluid line for cleaning the outside of the probe and two output fluid lines one for draining the clean station and one as an overflow .

Referring back to the following sensors monitor the status position and movement of the clean station and drive . Clean station home optical sensor located on detector robot housing determines the vertical home position of clean station . Clean station vertical optical sensor located on the rotational gearing associated with motor used to move clean station determines the vertical position of the clean station. Additionally a clean station overflow sensor is a conductive sensor mounted on or within clean station to monitor clean station for any blockage that would cause clean station to overfill.

The detector module probe mount secures the detector probe to the top of detector robot . Detector Module probe is placed through the top of the mount and secured using the threaded nut. The mounting position is adjustable by a slot and screw combination. The probe has holes for example five holes of approximately 0.005 inch or about 0.0127 mm running through it and contains an internal screen.

During typical operation of detector robot rotational arm moves to an RV acceptance position and RV Handler places a RV in the RV holder of rotational arm . Rotational arm rotates clockwise to below the detector module probe and raises the RV to the aspiration position for the Detector Module probe in probe mount as shown in . Detector module probe aspirates the sample from the RV. After aspiration rotational arm lowers and rotates back to the pickup position. Rotational arm then lowers causing the waste disposal prong to push the RV out of the rotational arm. Lowering the rotational arm activates spring loaded waste disposal lever and the lever moves forward and pushes the RV into the waste chute . Next clean station rises to clean the detector module probe and rotational arm returns to the RV acceptance position. Clean station lowers after cleaning the probe.

While detector transfer robot assembly is described above as being an assembly within sample processing module robot assembly may be part of or incorporated within detector module .

RV waste chute is designed to catch the RVs dumped by the detector robot as described above. A wide sloping design e.g. 30 degrees or more on all surfaces ensures all RVs and liquid contained within the RVs are directed into the RV waste bin . RV and liquid are not allowed to block or pool in chute . Since the RV waste chute will be interacting with waste both RVs and their liquid periodic cleaning of the chute is recommended. Chute is easily removed and cleaned by detaching it from its interface with RV buffer area . In this embodiment lower end of chute fits within an opening on upper end of RV buffer .

RV buffer is designed to catch and hold RVs and their liquid waste whenever the RV waste bin is extended or pulled out of the instrument chassis for waste removal. RV buffer includes a main body that interfaces with RV waste chute and a trap door . Trap door is located towards the bottom end of RV waste chute and is hingeably attached at two connection points to body such that door can move from a closed i.e. blocking the passage of RVs and fluid to waste bin to an open position as shown. One skilled in the art will recognize that other door or door attachment mechanisms may be used without departing from the scope of this invention.

In this embodiment RV buffer has the capacity to store approximately 1 hour worth of RV and liquid waste e.g. approximately 100 RVs and approximately 2 ml of fluid . RV waste bin holds trap door in the open position as shown under normal operation. However when RV waste bin is extended opened for waste removal trap door moves to the closed position blocking passage of disposed RVs. RV buffer preferably does not use any motors to move into position rather door moves between open and closed positions by either gravity or contact with waste bin . Optionally a buffer door latch or stop limits forward travel of door when in closed position. In other embodiments buffer employs spring mechanisms or the like to control door position.

RV buffer preferably includes an optical sensor located in the waste chute or RV buffer area to determine if trap door is in an open or closed state and to communicate the state to the user through the host PC or some other indicator such as a visual e.g. LED indicator or audio indicator.

RV waste bin is a pullout drawer incorporating a handle and slides capable of extending beyond the instrument footprint and is preferably is configured to accept standard biohazard bags e.g. bags measuring approximately 14 19 . A biohazard bag is secured within the RV waste bin for example by spring clips to prevent the bag from tearing when the bin is opened or closed. A bag detection sensor monitors the presence of the bag. In one embodiment bag detection sensors are a conductive spring loaded contact switch system that is opened by the presence of any plastic biohazard bag. Removal of the bag trips the conductive sensor causing software in host PC to determine no bag is present. In such embodiment bag detection sensors are two wire connections to a moving cable attached to the RV waste drawer.

Computer software e.g. in host also monitors RV waste bin level by incrementing the number of RVs in the waste each time a RV is transferred to waste by detector robot . The level is reset to zero every time a bag change is detected. To provide accurate tracking of waste level the bag detection sensors are activated as a background task during power up and continue until the instrument is powered down. The sensors are required to remain active when RV waste bin is extended out on the drawer slides as this is the time when the user will remove the waste bag. The sensor cable to allow the drawer is coiled to prevent tangling when the drawer is open or closed.

Three types of clean stations are used. All cleaning stations are designed to effectively clean the probe inside and out and minimize the consumables used.

The Specimen and Reagent Probe Clean Stations are two stage type clean stations. First all contaminated waste is disposed of directly down the waste tubing cleans the probe. Then the probe moves over and down into a well where liquid from the probe cleans interior and exterior of the probe.

The Detector transfer probe clean station is similar to the Specimen Probe and Reagent Probe Clean station except the Clean Station is a single stage type clean. The probe interior and exterior is cleaned by wash liquid supplied by the probe however the probe is not moved from a dirty waste disposal position to a clean probe position. The detector probe clean station is aligned physically in the x y axis using slots in the clean station. The probe insertion depth is a software controlled variable.

The Wash Probe Clean Stations clean the probes by filling the clean station with wash liquid then using the probes to drain the stations. In these stations only a wash liquid supply is required. The liquid is drained only via the probes. The initial wash liquid supply cleans the outside of the probe and the draining via the probes cleans the interior. The probes are aligned physically in the horizontal axis combination of x y axes using slots in the clean stations for positioning. The rotational alignment and probe insertion depth are software controlled variables.

Internal bulk reagent and waste reservoirs as shown if contain enough capacity on board the device to allow all specimens currently in a process to be completed should external supplies be exhausted.

Fluidics control system provides a wash buffer sheath fluid for the detector and deionized water for cleaning probes. The fluidics control system incorporates at least three precision syringe pumps for specimen and reagent aspiration and dispense and an FMI positive displacement dispensing pump for bead washing.

In one embodiment the fluidics system includes a number of sub subsystems each of which are discussed in more detail below.

The DI Water Subsystem stores and delivers DI water to the other sub systems. DI water is used to clean various probes flush valves and components and perform periodic maintenance. Additionally as an added option DI Water Subsystem can be directly plumbed into the instrument.

The DI Water Subsystem includes a Bulk DI Water Supply e.g. 5 Liter Capacity a customer accessible container with liquid level monitoring. The Bulk DI Water Supply has the capacity to supply the instrument with DI for an eight hour continuous run. The liquid level sensing is used to notify the customer via a software interface when additional DI is required. This container is not pressurized or under a vacuum.

A DI Water Intake Pump pumps DI from the Bulk DI Water Supply to the Internal DI Water Supply. The pump is activated when the DI level in the Internal DI Water Supply falls below a specific level. A self priming diaphragm pump is used in this capacity.

A DI Water Intake Check Valve prevents DI water from traveling from the Internal DI Water Supply to the Bulk DI Water Supply. The check valve 1.5 psi cracking pressure is required because the Internal DI Water Supply bottle is pressurized.

An internal DI Water Supply such as a 1 Liter Capacity pressurized internal DI reservoir with liquid level monitoring. The low pressure provides the motive force to drive the DI water to the various pumps and clean station. The Internal DI Water Supply capacity is maintained to provide for the completion of all in process assays should the Bulk DI Water Supply be exhausted or removed. A current minimum is 550 ml. An example of a DI water supply is shown in .

DI Selector Valve Provides either DI water or Wash Buffer to the Fluid Supply Manifold depending on the valve position.

Fluid Supply Manifold Provides either DI water or Wash Buffer to the various pumps and clean stations contained within the other sub systems. The DI Selector Valve controls the supply of fluids either DI or Wash Buffer to the Fluid Supply Manifold.

The DI Water Supply preferably has a number of sensors for example six sensors. A thermistor type sensor is used in all DI Water sensing situations due to the non conductive nature of DI Water. Thermistors are semiconductors that will change resistance with a change in temperature. As the DI Water covers or uncovers the thermistor the resistance of the thermistor changes. In both the Bulk and Internal DI Water three thermistors are used to correctly sense DI Water liquid levels.

Bulk DI Water Supply Cap Sensor Monitors the ambient temperature and provides a reference point for the software to identify changes in liquid levels at the low and high liquid level sensors.

Bulk DI Water Supply Low Liquid Level Sensor Monitors the low liquid level within the Bulk DI Water Supply. When tripped this sensor causes the software interface to notify the customer that additional Bulk DI Water is required.

Bulk DI Water Supply High Liquid Level Sensor Monitors the high liquid level within the Bulk DI Water Supply. When tripped this sensor causes the software interface to notify the customer that Bulk DI Water is full.

Internal DI Water Supply Cap Sensor Monitors the ambient temperature and provides a reference point for the software to identify changes in liquid levels at the low and high liquid level sensors.

Internal DI Water Reservoir Low Liquid Level Sensor Monitors the low liquid level within the Internal DI Water Reservoir. When tripped this sensor causes the Internal DI Reservoir to be filled from the Bulk DI Water Supply via the DI Intake pump provided bulk DI water is present .

Internal DI Water Reservoir High Liquid Level Sensor Monitors the high liquid level within the Internal DI Water Reservoir. When tripped this sensor stops the filling of the Internal DI Reservoir.

The Wash Buffer Subsystem stores and delivers Wash Buffer to the other sub systems. Wash Buffer is used as a hydraulic fluid bead washing and re suspension probe cleaning fluid and specimen diluent. The Wash Buffer Subsystem includes the following components.

A Bulk Wash Buffer Supply 10 Liter Capacity A customer accessible container with liquid level monitoring. The Bulk Wash Buffer Supply has the capacity to supply the instrument with Wash Buffer for an eight hour continuous run. The liquid level sensing is used to notify the customer via a software interface when additional Wash Buffer is required. This container is not pressurized or under a vacuum.

A Wash Buffer Intake Pump Pumps Wash from the Bulk Wash Buffer Supply to the Internal Wash Buffer Supply. The pump is activated when the Wash Buffer in the Internal Wash Buffer Supply falls below a specific level. A self priming diaphragm pump is used in this capacity.

A Wash Buffer Intake Check Valve Prevents Wash Buffer from traveling from the Internal Wash Buffer Supply to the Bulk Wash Buffer Supply. The check valve 1.5 psi cracking pressure is required because the Internal Wash Buffer Supply bottle is pressurized.

An Internal Wash Buffer Supply 1 Liter Capacity A pressurized internal Wash Buffer reservoir with liquid level monitoring. The pressure provides the motive force to drive the Wash Buffer to the various pumps and clean station. The Internal Wash Buffer Supply capacity is always maintained to provide for the completion of all in process assays should the Bulk Wash Buffer Supply be exhausted or removed. An example of a current minimum is 550 ml as shown in the example internal wash buffer supply of .

A DI Selector Valve Provides either DI water or Wash Buffer to the Fluid Supply Manifold depending on the valve position.

A Fluid Supply Manifold Provides either DI water or Wash Buffer to the various pumps and clean stations contained within the other sub systems. The DI Selector Valve controls the supply of fluids either DI or Wash Buffer to the Fluid Supply Manifold.

In a preferred embodiment Wash Buffer Supply has four sensors which are preferably conductive sensors. In one embodiment the sensors are stainless steel probes with a voltage applied to them. Wash Buffer completes a circuit between the probe and a common probe to trip the sensor. The common probe is also a stainless steel probe.

The Sheath Subsystem stores and delivers sheath to the Detector Module. Sheath is supplied to the Detector Module in both a precision metered flow and a non pressurized flow.

The Sheath Supply has five sensors. Conductive sensors are used in Sheath. The sensors are simple stainless steel probes with a voltage applied to them. Sheath completes a circuit between the probe and a common probe to trip the sensor. The common probe is also a stainless steel probe.

The Wash Separate and Re Suspend System aspirates liquid from RVs disposes of aspirated waste cleans Wash Probes dispenses Wash Buffer to RVs. The Wash Separate Re Suspend Subsystem consists of the following components 

The Reagent Transfer Subsystem aspirates and dispenses reagents as well as cleaning the Reagent Probe. The Reagent Robot physically transfers reagents from the Reagent Carousel to RVs on the Incubator Carousel. The Reagent Transfer Subsystem includes the following components 

The Specimen Transfer Subsystem aspirates moves and dispenses specimen samples into RVs on the Incubator Carousel. Additionally it cleans the Specimen Probe and disposes of the waste. The Specimen Transfer includes the following components.

The Specimen Transfer System preferably has two sensors including a Specimen Probe Blockage Detection Unit that monitors the vacuum and pressure used to aspirate and dispense specimen. If the Specimen Probe becomes blocked the vacuum or pressure will increase tripping the sensor. The customer is notified of this and directed to take corrective action such as cleaning or replacing the probe. A Specimen Probe Liquid Level Sensor can be used to detect when the Specimen Probe comes in contact with specimen. The change in capacitance is determines liquid contact. The software ensures the probe is inserted far enough for reagent aspiration.

The Detector Module Fluid Transfer Subsystem removes Detector Module waste and cleans the probe. The Detector Module Fluid Transfer Subsystem includes the following components 

The Waste Management System removes and stores waste from the other sub systems. The customer disposes of stored waste. Additionally as an option the Waste Management System can be directly plumbed into an existing waste disposal system. The Waste Management System includes of the following components 

Function 1 Collects waste from the General Purpose Waste Container and Wash Separate Waste Container and delivers it to the Waste Delivery Manifold.

Function 2 Processes Wash Buffer from the Internal Wash Buffer Reservoir to the Fluid Supply Manifold. The DI Selector Valve controls the flow of Wash Buffer.

Function 3 Provides a path for regulated low vacuum to be monitored on the Fluidics Control Board and supply vacuum to the Wash Separate Waste Container.

Function 4 Processes DI Water from the Internal DI Water Reservoir to the Fluid Supply Manifold controlled by the DI Selector Valve and Wash Probe Clean Station controlled by the Wash Separate Clean Valve .

Function 5 Processes liquid waste from Detector Module Clean Station Reagent Probe Clean Station and Specimen Probe Clean Station to the Waste Delivery Manifold.

Function 1 Collects liquid waste from General Purpose Manifold and delivers is to the Internal Waste Containers.

Function 2 Provides a path for unregulated pressure and vacuum to enter the Waste Management System. The Pressure Vacuum Selector Valve determines if pressure or vacuum is supplied. Upon exit of the manifold the Waste Changeover Valve determines the destination of the pressure or vacuum.

Function 3 Provides a path for a regulated high vacuum to be monitored on the Fluidics Control Board and supply vacuum to the Internal Waste Reservoirs.

Function 4 Provides a path for a regulated pressure to be monitored on the Fluidics Control Board pressurize the Internal Wash Buffer and DI Water Reservoirs and pressurize the Internal Waste Container.

The Pressure Subsystem creates stores and delivers pressure to the other sub systems. Pressure is used to transfer fluids by other sub systems. The Pressure Subsystem includes the following components.

The Vacuum Subsystem creates stores and delivers vacuum to the other sub systems. Vacuum is used to transfer fluids by the other sub systems. The Vacuum Subsystem includes of the following components 

Although the Fluidics PCB is technically part of the Electronics section it is important to discuss some of its function here to understand the operation of the Fluidics system. The Fluidics PCB provides a central location for all control and sensor connections in the Fluidics system. This design minimizes the length of wiring required and increases serviceability of the Fluidics system. The Fluidics PCB has the five pressure and vacuum 3 pressure 2 vacuum sensors located on it. They are connected to the various other components by tubing. The placement of the sensors on the Fluidics Board allows the sensor size to be minimized while maximizing reliability.

The Fluidics System performs a large number of tasks in both serial and parallel. To understand the Fluidics System it is helpful that the workings of the pressure and vacuum are understood. The pressure side and vacuum side work in tandem to perform the various tasks required of the fluidics system by the instrument. The fluidics system is controlled by the electronics and computer system of the instrument. It should be noted that during any task performed by the fluidics system the electronics and computer system must control both the pressure and vacuum sides. Failure to do so will result in the fluidics system being unable to successfully complete its assigned task.

The five internal reservoirs within the instrument allow replacement of the external bulk bottles without interruption of instrument operation. The electrical connection and liquid level sensing probes are the same or similar on four of them Wash Buffer Sheath and two Waste .

The four reservoirs optionally are configured as shown in and using the following configuration of liquid level sensing probes

Referring back to host computer system of the MAD system preferably includes a processor a user in keyboard trackball for data entry touch screen VGA high resolution monitor printer and software. The computer system preferably has a dual microprocessor one gigabyte of RAM memory two 40 gigabyte hard drives and a dual asynchronous serial interface. The computer system is responsible for carrying out all of the necessary operations from instrument control to results evaluation data storage quality control mainframe bidirectional interfacing and operator assistance. The computer system is connected to the analyzer through two USB ports while the printer is operated through a parallel port. The computer system has a LAN and a modem line connector.

The MAD system hardware and software provide complete control of the flow cytometer and performs real time classification of the microspheres and analysis of the microsphere based reactions simultaneously. The hardware includes a personal computer interface card that provides communication between the computer and the flow cytometer. The interface card has an on board high speed digital signal processor that is capable of performing 30 million mathematical functions per second. The software is a WINDOWS2000 XP based 32 bit application that provides a multiplexed mode for automated multiplexed analysis as well as a data acquisition mode for nonautomated gating and data acquisition. In addition statistical analysis generated by the software is recorded to comma separated value CSV files that can be read by third party spreadsheet programs.

The instrument control software is in excess of 100 000 lines of C code running under the QNX multi threaded real time operating system and performs all instrument control specimen process scheduling and error handling operations. Furthermore instrument code can be upgraded or changed from the host via the USB interface or over a network from a remote server.

Turning now to the software component of the MAD system the host software includes instructions for operating and controlling the multiple robots incorporated in the device. Furthermore the host software controls movement of samples pipetting samples pipetting reagents flushing samples analyzing samples reporting data and troubleshooting the device.

 C System Parameter operational programming e.g. test applications mainframe interface configurations and calculations mode and

 D System Functions system tests and troubleshooting System operators spend the majority of their time in the RUN block. The RUN block is discussed below in some detail.

To begin a run the operator first enters the patient requisition information which includes the patient name number and the test s or panel selections. Patient demographics may also be entered now or for better time efficiency after the run has begun. Several operator defined functions exist to allow for rapid requisition entries. After the sample requests are ordered it is possible to segregate the samples or specific assays.

In addition to the flexible sample handling options are also provided for the run s calibration curve and controls. For each run the operator may choose from 1 a full calibration curve 2 one or two point adjustment or 3 no calibrator using the stored curve. Calibrators are run in duplicate and samples are run singularly. As many as three controls may be run per assay panel.

Other important functions of the RUN block include loading status run optimization run status documentation data conclusion archive and system cleaning What follows is a brief overview of each of these modules. Loading status provides a printed summary of the requested run. This load list includes all bulk solutions reagents samples cleaning solution and RVs it indicates their volumes required for the run and provides the appropriate numbered position for each constituent on the reagent sample and incubator rotors.

One of the functions of the software is to calculate the appropriate pipetting sequences. This feature allows the assays of a specific run to be performed during the shortest possible time period and thus optimize the workload management.

The Run status allows the operator to determine at any time the system s progress in the run. It shows the individual procedural steps of pipetting incubation washing and flow cytometric measurements for each assay in the run including their start and end times.

In a preferred embodiment a MAD instrument and system allows for simultaneous detection of multiple analytes a single sample. Hence the instrument makes possible a multi analyte detection system. The system is designed to simultaneously detect the presence of multiple different up to approximately 25 antibodies in a test sample e.g. a blood sample . This system utilizes the following basic steps 

1 A test sample to be analyzed for the presence of one or more analytes of interest is contacted with a population of magnetic beads. A bar code is used to identify the test sample. In such a system the analytes are particular antibodies that may be present in the test sample. Different beads within the population exhibit different particular combinations of fluorescent dyes and analyte detectors. In a current embodiment the analyte detectors are particular antigens. Each analyte detector binds a particular analyte to be detected. Specifically each magnetic bead is uniquely dyed with two distinct fluorescent dyes. Thus in the current BioPlex 2200 system each analyte detector antigen binds a particular analyte antibody. The dyes are preferably oil soluble or hydrophobic and the dyes are incorporated into the bead rather than being attached to the bead s surface. Each dye can have any of ten 10 or more possible levels of fluorescent intensity thus creating a family of up to one hundred 100 or more spectrally addressed color coded beads. Any particular magnetic bead is identified via a specific combination of fluorescent dyes the combination is referred to collectively as a classification dye the bead exhibits. Each magnetic bead exhibiting a particular classification dye also exhibits a particular analyte detector antigen . Thus by detecting a particular classification dye of a magnetic bead one also identifies the specific analyte detector antigen the magnetic bead exhibits. Generally the test sample and magnetic beads are incubated for approximately 15 minutes at 37 C. inside the instrument reaction vessel.

2 After incubation the magnetic beads are washed generally three times to remove unbound test sample material. Specifically when the reaction vessel is ready to be washed a magnetic field is applied that draws the magnetic beads to the wall of the reaction vessel where they are maintained during washing. After each washing the magnetic field is removed and the beads are resuspended. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the beads and or magnets may incorporate various types of materials that either produce or respond to magnetic fields such that the beads are attracted to the side of a reaction vessel during washing.

3 After washing the only antibodies remaining in the reaction vessel are those that had bound to antigens present on the now washed magnetic beads. The washed magnetic beads some or all of which may have bound analytes antibodies of interest present in the test sample are then contacted with a labeled reporter molecule that is a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody designed to bind to any antibody e.g. any human antibody or any particular class of human antibody left remaining in the reaction vessel. Thus those magnetic beads that bound an antibody from the test sample will in this step also bind a labeled reporter molecule. Generally the beads and the labeled reporter molecule are incubated in the reaction vessel for approximately 15 minutes at 37 C.

4 The magnetic beads are then washed again to remove any unbound labeled reporter molecules as described in 2 above.

5 At this point those antibodies from the test sample that had bound to the magnetic beads have been bound by a labeled reporter molecule. The reaction vessel containing the magnetic beads is introduced to the detector module . In this example a suitable detector module includes flow cytometry mechanisms and at least two lasers. The two lasers are a red 635 nm classification laser and a green 532 nm reporter laser. The magnetic beads are then analyzed via flow cytometry involving a two laser system in which one laser can detect and identify a classification dye and the second can detect the labeled reporter molecule. The identification of a particular classification dye passing through a particular flow cell indicates what analyte detector antigen the magnetic bead carries. If that bead is also determined to have bound a labeled reporter molecule then the test sample contains the analyte antibody the particular magnetic bead is designed to detect. As all the magnetic beads are evaluated together via this two laser system the presence of each of the multiple analytes antibodies is evaluated simultaneously. The results are read collated and displayed and or stored by a computer.

As pointed out above the detector module in this example utilizes flow cytometry technology employing two lasers of different frequencies. One laser excites the fluorescent dye in the bead to identify the bead that just has passed through the flow cell by detecting the bead classification dye. The other laser excites the fluorescent dye bound to the labeled reporter molecule to indicate that an antibody from the test sample is bound to the magnetic particle.

In particular the detector module in this example involves two solid state lasers. First a red diode classification laser excites fluorochromes embedded through the dyes of the bead. When the red diode classification laser illuminates a dyed bead the bead s fluorescent signature identifies it as a particular member of one of the species of classification dyes a qualitative analysis . Software correlates the bead species to the particular analyte detector antigen present on the magnetic bead. Second a green reporter laser simultaneously excites a fluorescent dye bound to the labeled reporter molecule in the assay. The amount of green fluorescence is directly proportional to the amount of analyte antibody captured in the immunoassay a quantitative analysis .

Digital signal processing algorithms for example in the host computer or in the detector module provide real time data acquisition from thousands of beads per second. Using high speed digital signal processing about 100 000 beads can be screened per minute and up to 25 different analytes antibodies can be assessed in seconds. Extrapolating the standard curve allows the quantitation of each analyte in the sample.

According to one embodiment a MAD system essentially comprises two sub systems namely an assay processing sub system e.g. a sample processing module and an analysis sub system e.g. a detector module . The assay processing sub system includes inter alia the following hardware components reaction vessels RVs RV handlers an RV hopper reagent kits specimen and reagent handlers and probes at least one bar code reader a specimen input area including a specimen rack positioned on a specimen rack tray a look ahead platform or pre view area a specimen robot other robotics for transferring the samples and or reagents a reagent carousel other carousels including sample racks a work surface an incubation wheel or carousel at least one specimen aspiration probe a washing mechanism including a wash carousel and a wash aspiration robot and a specimen cleaning station. Furthermore the assay processing sub system includes inter alia the following software components software used to control and monitor processing such as the maintenance sentry instrument sentry and sample sentry a laboratory automation track system LATS a laboratory information system LIS quality control QC tools remote connectivity management software and user interfaces.

In one example serology infectious disease testing covers all areas of infectious disease including sexually transmitted diseases pediatric diseases viral infections parasitic infections and others. As an example a system serology IgG reagent kit includes antigens for up to twelve or more specific infectious diseases. In this example sixteen specific antigens are used for this purpose. Multiple antigens are used for specific disease association in order to increase assay specific reactivity and to aid in the clinician diagnosis for staging of the specific disease. TABLE 19 provides of examples of the markers that may be included in a Serology IgG Reagent Kit.

The first column identifies disease. The second third and fourth indicate what antigens are used to detect the disease. The last column identifies how the antigens are coated. Single indicates only one antigen. Individual indicates multiple antigens for same disease however the listed antigens are coated onto separate beads for identification. Co Coat indicates multiple antigens coated on the same bead.

Diseases with more than one antigen can be a powerful tool to acquire clinical diagnosis of a sample. For example EBV infection uses three IgG antigens to identify the disease stage and progression. Offering all three antigens in one tube will give more consistent results and will offer possible disease stage progression based on an internal look up table. Syphilis uses two specific recombinant proteins to give higher sensitivity and specificity for a syphilis infection and may offer disease staging ideas to the clinician based on pattern. Lyme offers three distinct strains of Borrelia in order to increase sensitivity increase market usability and other potential diseases progression ideas based on patterns. uses two specific proteins

Referring to a method according to the invention is illustrated utilizing the serology IgG assay panel as an example. Method is shown in all three with the steps beginning at of continued in and the steps shown in of continued in . It should however be appreciated that the sequence of steps or the combination of movements may be altered. The IgG assay panel of this example uses three reagents in the reagent packs magnetic beads solution sample diluent and conjugate solution. Once a test run is completed and the instrument is in the idle phase the MAD system automatically flushes at regular time intervals with wash buffer so as to prevent drying of the probes. The MAD system performs all of the assay steps without operator intervention. A single assay panel or multiple random access assays can be performed with minimal operator time.

Detection of IgM antibodies is often used to identify an early or acute infection and is helpful to fully understand the progression of an infection.

Serology IgM in some cases offers a few more challenges to antibody detection than IgG. Two main problems that can occur with IgM detection include IgG replacement and Rheumatoid Factor replacement. First if a sample has both IgG and IgM antibodies to one antigen the IgG antibody will always bind to the antigen first. The IgG and IgM antibodies compete for the same antigen and IgG will almost always win due to steric hindrances and higher affinity. This can lead to false negative results on a standard IgM assay. Second Rheumatoid factor a protein found in a large percent of the population mimics IgM antibodies. Rheumatoid factor will bind to antigens non specifically leading to false positive results in the assay. A capture method immunoassay helps overcome these problems.

In this example a capture method for IgM detection uses an IgM antibody coated to the solid phase. This IgM antibody will bind to a IgM in a sample. A conjugate made up of the specific antigen for testing is then added to the sample and will bind to the complex. This then generates a signal that can be detected.

For a standard indirect IgM assay an extra step is generally performed in order to remove all the IgG antibodies and all the Rheumatoid Factor from the sample. On manual or semi automated assays this can cause major delays and problems for programming.

The system serology IgM reagent kit uses an indirect technique with the absorption step included in the first incubation. The chemistry allowed within the multiplex format does not allow for capture like tests to be developed. This serology IgM reagent kit has proven equivalence versus the capture methods where appropriate.

The serology IgM reagent kit offers essentially the same testing procedure and analyte package as Serology IgG described above except that 

 a EBV only offers VCA detection to IgM. Other markers are no value to determining disease stages and are not reimbursable.

 b Syphilis still uses two distinct recombinant proteins however the proteins used are 17 and r 47. Advantages are still present using two distinct antigens.

A MAD system Autoimmune Systemic Reagent Kit offers antibody detection against antigens normally identified as systems autoimmune antigens. This indicates a response that is system wide throughout the whole body and cannot be identified to one specific organ or organs. Disease specific panels affecting multiple organ systems will be used in future product launches. TABLE 20 includes a list of all the antigens present in a MAD System Autoimmune Reagent Kit according to one example.

Diseases associated with the above markers including systemic lupus erythematosus scleroderma sjogrens synaroma polymyositis mixed connective tissue disease MCTD and CREST will not be discussed in detail herein however they are know in the field.

Software on the M.A.D. system host computer preferably allows the Autoimmune Systemic Reagent Kit to report results in many different methods. One standout feature with this embodiment is the incorporation of a medical decision device system. This system incorporates database in system memory including results generated from known clinical disease samples. As new samples are tested on the system the antibody response results for that sample are compared to the internal database. If the pattern of antibody response is similar to a known clinical disease the system has the ability to report this correlation.

As used throughout this specification MAD and BioPlex2200 are or will be used as trademarks covering this device processes of this device and or any part thereof. The use of MAD and BioPlex2000 is intended to be used in a distinctive sense not a generic description of the system or method being accomplished.

The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. For example any methods described herein are merely examples intended to illustrate one way of performing the invention. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. Also any graphs and FIGS. described herein are not drawn to scale. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Furthermore the order of steps in the method is not necessarily intended to occur in the sequence laid out. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

