---

title: Community internet drive
abstract: Provided herein are devices, systems, methods and various means, including those related to providing a community internet drive that may utilize a centrally-managed hub as well as storage devices distributed among various networked machines. In some embodiments, the community internet drive can also include features to enable its users to promote and utilize the user's trusted personal relationships while also enabling an open platform for peer-to-peer and/or other types of sharing schemes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738725&OS=08738725&RS=08738725
owner: Planetary Data LLC
number: 08738725
owner_city: Encinitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
This application claims priority to and is a nonprovisional application of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 429 252 filed Jan. 3 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to network storage systems and more particularly relate to methods apparatuses computer readable media systems and other means for providing data storage management.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to network storage and other systems for processing storing and transferring data such as those used to create a limited virtual file system VFS inclusive of peer to peer P2P data transfers for community use. A number of deficiencies and problems associated with conventional data storage and transfer processes and systems have been identified. Through applied effort ingenuity and innovation solutions to many of these identified problems have been solved by developing systems computer readable media methods apparatuses and other means that are included in various embodiments of the present invention some examples of which are detailed below.

Embodiments include systems apparatuses methods computer readable media and other means for providing among other things a community internet drive having data storage distributed data management and or social networking functionality and providing a virtual file system across potentially heterogeneous devices. Some users may be members of the community meaning that these users have opted in to using the community internet drive. The community internet drive may be built from various community machines maintained and controlled by members of the community internet drive. The community machines may be networked together e.g. using the Internet and or other networks to virtually connect all their personal hard drives or at least a portion thereof into one or more virtual drives that may each have a size that scales with the size of the community. At least some of the community machines may be computers tablets and or other machines that are designed to be used predominately for personal and or non commercial purposes by their users such as e.g. desktop computers laptop computers smart phones etc. as opposed to commercial grade servers and databases often used to implement cloud computing functionality. As such there may be no barrier to connecting hundreds thousands millions and or billions of individual drives providing in aggregate exabytes zettabytes or any other amount of data for the community internet drive.

For example in some embodiments a first user machine such as a personal computer tablet or smart phone can be configured to generate a request to be included in the community internet drive. The request can be transmitted to a remote machine such as a server and or other machine that is configured to function as a managed hub. The first user machine can then receive configuration data from for example the remote machine. In some embodiments the configuration data may come from another user machine via a direct connection such as those sometimes used for peer to peer communications as opposed to client server communications .

The first user machine can then be configured to execute the configuration data including partitioning its local storage device into a private portion and a shared portion. This partitioning may be performed by enabling the first use of the first machine to select one or more local directories e.g. one or more folders included in the first computer s hard drive to be mounted e.g. or otherwise added to the community internet drive. While the local directories that are mounted to the community internet drive can be considered a shared portion of the first machine s local storage device other directories that are not mounted to the community internet drive can be considered the private portion of the local storage device that is excluded from the community internet drive.

Additionally or alternatively some embodiments discussed herein provide various solutions to problems related to sharing data between or among users. For example the managed hub can be configured to cause data to be transferred to a person or place where it is needed.

Each user may also identify other users in particular and or criteria for selecting other users to define a user selected subset community within the larger community. For example within a certain user base of the self selected community embodiments discussed herein can manage the sharing of data according to the social mapping of the user selected subset community while it also feeds the development of the larger community with user generated content UGC . Embodiments may also be easy to use provide data security be fair be reliable and provide benefit through the enabled quality of service. Data from user s in group can be inherently more interesting than that published by strangers.

As used herein a user s in group may include one or more other users that the user has identified in the user s profile and or otherwise as having a relationship with such as a friendship family relationship business relationship and or any other type s of relationship. Some types of in group relationships may require the other user to accept a request to be in the group. For example a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend and include the second user s email address in the user s profile but the second user may not be considered a friend of the first user by the system until the second user indicates or otherwise confirms that first user is in fact a friend e.g. by affirmatively accepting the first user s friendship and or by not denying the friendship request within a given period of time .

For example an in group may be created by a user machine or be created by the managed hub in response a user machine providing data for a user profile associated with a user. The first user profile can be configured to include data related to for example the user personal information the user s machines and or the user s social networks. For example the user profile may include the user s birthday username address credit card information lap top s interne protocol IP address cellular phone s IP address FaceBook username password the user s email address a friend s email address a business partner s email address etc. The friend s email address business partner s email address and or FaceBook information can be used to then create one or more in groups such as a friends group family group business group and or any other type of group . The first user profile can then be provided to the remote machine such as e.g. a server functioning as the managed hub .

While the first user machine can be configured to store user data e.g. files pictures movies websites and or other content associated with the first user in the first user machine s shared portion of the local storage device all the user data can be encrypted such that only machines associated with in group users can access the user data. For example the first user machine may also receive and store a stranger s user data because the first user machine is part of the community internet drive but if the stranger user is unassociated with any of the user s in group s the stranger s user data can be encrypted such that the first user machine is unable to decipher the stranger s user data despite the stranger s data being physically stored on the user s computer e.g. in the local portion of the local storage device .

In accordance with some embodiments published drive contents can have uniform resource identifiers URIs constructed from the Uniform Resource Locator URL of the community internet drive such as e.g. w3disk.com . Drive contents can be linked to similar to or the same as a website is linked to and drive contents and or community websites can operate with features similar to a local and or networked disk drive and or other storage device. For example opening links to folders can include displaying directory listings and opening links to files can include showing the file details. Each user can be enabled by the system to register a namespace. In some embodiments namespaces may be organized and structured for usability and value where higher value namespaces can indicate something about the language of posted content geographic location of the community member business area or an associated internet domain any subject domain where specialized content will be aggregated and or naming of personal relevance to the user.

In some embodiments URI construction can include creating an identifier to an instance of data. The URI can be unique in the sense of identifying one exact instance of data on one particular community machine but it can be possible to generate more than one URI to that instance of data in some embodiments. In other words in some embodiments the URI may not guarantee there are not multiple copies of the data or that another different URI may not be pointing to an identical copy or that contents do not change over time. This differs from other types of URIs UUIDs that may be unique and one to one based on file contents or that are designed to identify the same logical file entity even as it passes through revisions.

The centralized management functionality of the community internet drive may be provided by a managed hub which may be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. The managed hub can configure systems to inspect the URI and or route the request to connect some number of community machines as peers to satisfy the request. The managed hub can also be configured to track duplicates through e.g. metadata comparisons direct file or data inspection and or simply tracking associations generated from past successful copy events among other ways . Each copy made is traceable to the progenitor of initial introduction to the community internet drive and each duplicate can potentially be used as another available peer.

Adding a central hub such as a networked server and or database to a peer based community internet drive can enable additional services and functionality that may not be available in a purely peer to peer based system or in a purely cloud based system. The central hub can for example track access control lists ACLs and in group lists to restrict consumer views even when the publisher is offline. The central hub can also be configured to protect the publisher s data and IP addresses by checking access permissions before connecting peers. As yet another example the central hub can also manage individual point to point connections where the publisher the community member publishing data to the community internet drive provides keys to specific individuals for specific data or files. The central hub can also be configured to control the namespace to protect against infringement. In some embodiments the central hub can also or instead be configured to manage encryption and file splitting even below the byte level in some embodiments so that backups and duplicates are not readable by the backup host but using hub information the files can be reconstructed at the authenticated consumer e.g. the user receiving and or otherwise accessing the data provided by the publisher even when multiple blind hosts are the only sources uploading the content. In some embodiments only the authenticated downloader may be given enough information to reconstruct the original file. The central hub can also be configured to gate access to services provided to various types of users and or enforce fairness among users. As used herein fairness includes is giving a user access proportional to the user s level of participation. For example fairness can cause a particular user to receive expanded or diminished services compared to those provided by the central hub to other users. For user satisfaction the user can also be able to use the system to prioritize how the user s service credits are applied such as the number of redundant backups of particular files of the user and or the number of uploading peers activated as they download.

The hub can persist or cache data and files from community members for efficiency and reliability on other community members machines. The hub can persist metadata about published materials for better exposure to searching. The hub can improve reliability by delivering duplicate or derivative files when the original is unavailable. The hub can persist user preferences for how pages under their mount point display including but not limited to background images fonts styles and messages. The hub can provide commerce features where community members set a price for any of their published content.

Although some embodiments of the managed hub may include both the central hub and or control functionality distributed among community machines under the control of community members other embodiments can provide greater or lesser services when the central hub is not functional has reduced functionality and or is omitted from the system altogether. As such at least some of the functionality discussed herein can be implemented by an exclusively peer based managed hub. An exclusive peer based managed hub however may not have complete or up to date published directories for offline community members.

Other than providing a framework of central hub pages and container pages where mount points are listed the rest of the contents of the virtual community interne drive are data driven. The users as independent publishers control their mount point and any files or data they drop into the hierarchy of subdirectories under their mount point. As they drop in files the drive grows. As they add messages metadata previews and any other descriptive content the content becomes richer and more discoverable.

Additionally some embodiments may include a first user machine being further configured to access decrypted data associated with another user whose machines publish data. The first user machine can be further configured to receive a notification that the other user machine has accepted an invitation to be in the group with the first user machine prior to the first user machine being configured to access the decrypted data associated with the second user. The first user machine can be further configured to send the second user machine a notification in response to new data being added by the first machine to the shared portion of the first machine s local storage device.

The system can also be configured to maintain control over namespaces. In response to a user machine such as an independent publisher requesting control of a namespace from the server and or other managed hub the independent publisher may receive control of the namespace from the remote machine. In some embodiments a fee may be charged for various premium namespaces before control is awarded to an independent publisher.

Some embodiments also include a system and or method of managing data among a plurality of machines comprising receiving a first request from a first machine to join a community internet drive managed at least partially by a remote machine wherein whether the first machine is online is dependent on a first user in response to receiving the first request transmitting data initiating the configuration of the first machine to be part of the community internet drive receiving a second request from a second machine to join the community internet drive managed at least partially by the remote machine in response to receiving the second request transmitting data initiating the configuration of the second machine to be part of the community internet drive receiving a third request from a third machine to join the community internet drive managed at least partially by the remote machine in response to receiving the third request transmitting data initiating the configuration of the third machine to be part of the community internet drive receiving an indication of first data associated with the first machine to be stored in the community internet drive wherein the first data is encrypted and in response to receiving the indication of the first data causing at least a first portion of the first data as encrypted to be stored on the second machine wherein the second machine is unable to decrypt the first data and wherein whether the second machine is online is under the control of a second user that is different than the first user and causing at least a second portion of the first data as encrypted to be stored on the third machine wherein the third machine is unable to decrypt the first data and wherein whether the third machine is online is under the control of a third user that is different than the first user and the second user.

Further the method can comprise generating profile information associated with the first user of the first machine determining from the profile information that the first machine is associated with the first user determining a fourth machine is associated with a fourth user wherein the first user has indicated in the profile information that the fourth user is in a group authorized to access the first data and enabling the fourth machine to access the first data as unencrypted.

In some embodiments the method can also comprise receiving a request from the fourth machine to access the first data determining the fourth machine is authorized by the first user to access the first data in response to receiving the request determining the first machine is offline in response to determining the first machine is offline determining the second machine and the third machine are online and in response to determining the second machine and the third machine are online enabling the first data to be transferred from the second machine and the third machine to the fourth machine.

A determination can be made that the fourth machine has accessed and downloaded a first copy of the first data. Then a determination can be made whether the fourth machine has modified the first copy of the first data and in response to determining the copy of the first data is unmodified by the fourth machine progenitor data can be generated that is associated with the first copy indicating the first copy is substantively identical to the first data. In response to determining the copy of the first data was modified by the fourth machine progenitor data can be generated that is associated with the first copy indicating the first copy is a modified version of the first data.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Some embodiments discussed herein can be used as a community internet drive. For example system shown in can be configured to leverage and or otherwise integrate storage devices across a heterogeneous set of machines and operating systems into one cohesive whole using various network infrastructure. In some embodiments data from one or more storage devices or even every storage device in the network community of system can be transferred and shared as in a single virtual file system. In combination the processing and features bundled as discussed herein can create a powerful and useful tool that is relatively easy to use for solving long standing problems with enabling data sharing and availability among various machines.

For example system can include network which may comprise the public Internet private network s cellular network s direct connection s and or satellite network s among other types of networks. The direct connections may be any suitable type of connection such as one or more wired connections e.g. a universal serial bus USB connections Ethernet connections etc. and or wireless connections e.g. a BlueTooth connections WiFi connections etc. . As such network may include for example one or more servers switches routers processors and or other hardware configured to facilitate the transmission of data and or aid in providing the other functionality discussed herein including that related to the management and storage of data on various storage devices.

While network may include various servers etc. also shows server which may in and of itself comprise one or more servers databases and or other machines used to provide management related functionality of data maintained on the distributed heterogeneous storage devices sometimes referred to herein as independent publishers. Server may also be configured to provide for example cloud computing functionality or something similar thereto virtual file system functionality or something similar thereto and or social networking functionality or something similar thereto among other things. In other words server may be configured to be and or otherwise implement the functionality associated with the managed hub discussed herein which may be the aggregate of processes such as those discussed in connection with and in some embodiments can include a centralized framework based on one or more networked servers.

In this regard server may aid in coordinating communications data transfers user profile permissions and or any other type of management functionality related to the distributed storage devices included in the community internet drive. As noted above the distributed storage devices used to form the community internet drive may be included in one or more user machines sometimes referred to herein as independent publishers some examples of which are computer personal computer tablet laptop computer and or cellular device among others such as gaming consoles etc. .

Example circuitry that may be included in one or more of server computer personal computer tablet laptop computer and or cellular device is discussed in connection with . Server computer personal computer tablet laptop computer and or cellular device among others are each sometimes referred to herein as a community machine as each can be part of some embodiments of the community internet drive discussed herein.

In some embodiments the managed hub can be implemented in a decentralized fashion rather than being consolidated in server . For example the managed hub functionality can be provided by any and or all of the community machines operating collectively. Hence at least some embodiments may include a decentralized framework based on one or more networked servers computers cellular devices tablets and or other machines.

The solid lines between the network and each of the community machines represent centrally managed connections such as e.g. broadband connections that can be predominately used for control and reporting communications flow in accordance with some embodiments discussed herein. The dashed lines of between various community machines represent connections for peer to peer P2P communications e.g. connections between two machines that are considered peers as opposed to connections between a client and server in accordance with some embodiments discussed herein with the peer to peer communications predominately designated for data transfers. While the centrally managed hub and P2P communications can exist in isolation and be implemented individually when implemented collectively the peer to peer communications are assembled to create a virtual file system.

In some embodiments P2P and or centrally managed connections can be used to facilitate the transfer of any type of data such as e.g. data about system status and operations among other things. In this regard system may enable trusted peer machines included in the community of machines to elect to share contents and descriptive information from their local drives with each other directly and with others in the community. As referred to herein trusted peer machines refers to community machines that are under control of an authenticated community member who makes their machine open for storing and sharing community data. It follows that the community internet drive is comprised of storage devices or portions thereof of various community machines that are used to store data for the trusted peer machines of system and that function to securely disseminate data between authorized members.

The managed hub of system can be a virtually centralized hub of various processes executed by system . For example the managed hub can allow system to be configured to for example collectively manage the namespace used by the community machines of system distribute tasks performed by the community machines of system track and report statuses of community machines included in system and or present a unified view of the virtual file system provided by the community internet drive distributed among the community machines of system among other things.

For example the elements of community machine can be used to provide the managed hub or at least a portion thereof. A combination of community machines may be configured to work with one or more other community machines such as those shown in to provide the managed hub and or other services and functionalities discussed herein. At least some of the other community machines may include at least some of the same or similar components as discussed in connection with community machine . Alternatively or additionally the circuitry and other components discussed in connection with may be employed within a combination of apparatuses or other types of machines. Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention may be embodied wholly at a single device and or by devices networked together. Furthermore it should be noted that the devices and or other elements described herein may not be mandatory and thus some may be omitted in certain machines of various embodiments.

One or more of the community machines may include or otherwise be in communication with community management circuitry A that is configured to perform data transfer processing application execution and other processing associated with the distributed data storage and management functionality discussed herein. Community management circuitry A may include managed hub processor A and one or more storage devices such as local internet drive A and or trusted peer machines memory A discussed below . Local internet drive A and or trusted peer machines memory A may be used facilitate various features provided by some embodiments discussed herein.

For example local internet drive A can be included in a particular community machine and be configured to support managed hub functionality of system s community internet drive. As such local internet drive A may be configured to store community data including data provided by and associated with one or more of the other remotely located community machines data used to implement the managed hub and associated shared and communal data for the virtual file system the local machine is configured to share with other community machines among other kinds of data.

Trusted peer machines memory A can be configured to store data associated with other community machines including data that identifies e.g. IP address information of the machines that are included in the community of machines data that identifies which of the community machines is utilizing local internet drive A of community machine data that identifies which of the community machines is authorized to utilize local internet drive A and data that identifies which of the community machines is prohibited from utilizing local internet drive A among other things. There can be a variety of trusted relationships and levels on both the publishing and consuming side which the managed hub may aid in maintaining managing and or otherwise facilitating. On the publishing side a community machine can have a level of trust as a content provider either by establishing a community rating or based on the personal relationship between the members. On the consuming side either individuals or members of a defined in group such as friends and family can be granted read and or write access to content.

Community management circuitry A and or managed hub processor A may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example managed hub processor A may be embodied as various processing means such as a microprocessor or other processing element a coprocessor a controller or various other computing or processing devices including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array or the like. In some example embodiments managed hub processor A may be configured to execute instructions such as those discussed in connection with stored in storage device or other storage device s such as local internet drive A and or trusted peer machines memory A that is otherwise accessible to managed hub processor A. As such whether configured by hardware firmware and or software or by a combination thereof managed hub processor A and or community management circuitry A may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry hardware capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when managed hub processor A is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like managed hub processor A may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein including those discussed in connection with . Alternatively as another example when managed hub processor A is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure managed hub processor A to perform the operations described herein. Regardless of how managed hub processor A is embodied it may be configured to work with other managed hub processors independent publisher processors and or any other type of circuitry that may be included in one or more other community devices embodied in the same and or different forms.

In some embodiments community machine may instead or also be configured to function as an independent publisher. For example rather than or in addition to functioning as a managed hub community machine may be designed to be used predominately for personal and or non commercial purposes by its user as opposed to commercial grade servers and databases that may be used to implement managed hub functionality. As such instead of community management circuitry A managed hub processor A local internet drive A and or trusted peer machines A community machine may include community management circuitry B independent publisher processor B local internet drive B and or trusted peer machines B. Community management circuitry B independent publisher processor B local internet drive B and or trusted peer machines B may be embodied in hardware firmware and or software similar to or the same as that discussed above in connection with community management circuitry A managed hub processor A local internet drive A and or trusted peer machines A respectively.

However unlike that discussed above community management circuitry B independent publisher processor B local internet drive B and or trusted peer machines B may be optimized to be used as for example a network device used to generate data to be published to the community internet drive and or used to consume data that is published onto the community internet drive. Community management circuitry B may also be configured to perform data processing application execution and other processing associated with the distributed data transfer storage and management functionality discussed herein. In some embodiments for example community management circuitry B may be included in a user machine such as a personal computer tablet or smart phone that can be configured to generate a request to be included in the community internet drive. The request can be transmitted to a remote machine such as a server and or other machine that is configured to function as a managed hub. The first user machine can then receive configuration data from for example the remote machine. In some embodiments the configuration data may come from another user machine via a direct connection such as those sometimes used for peer to peer communications as opposed to client server communications .

In some embodiments processor may also or instead be included in community machine . Processor may function as a general processor and or provide some or all of the functionality associated with managed hub processor A and or independent publisher processor B. Like managed hub processor A and or independent publisher processor B processor may be implemented in a number of different ways. For example processor may be embodied as various processing means such as a microprocessor or other processing element a coprocessor a controller or various other computing or processing devices including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array or the like. In some example embodiments processor may be configured to execute instructions such as those discussed in connection with stored in storage device and or other storage device that is otherwise accessible to processor . As such whether configured by hardware firmware and or software or by a combination thereof processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry hardware capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like processor may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein including those discussed in connection with . Alternatively as another example when processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure processor to perform the operations described herein.

In some embodiments storage device may include one or more tangible non transitory memory devices such as for example volatile and or non volatile memory that may be either fixed or removable. Storage device may be configured to store information data applications instructions or the like for enabling each machine of system to carry out various functions in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. For example storage device can be configured to buffer input data for processing by processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B. Additionally or alternatively storage device could be configured to store instructions for execution by processor and or community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B such as those discussed in connection with .

Storage device may also include some or all of local internet drive A B and or trusted peer machines memory A B in addition to or instead of community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B. As such local internet drive A B and or trusted peer machines memory A B may be included in storage device community management circuitry A community management circuitry B and or any other component s .

As yet another example processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B may store data in one or more remote centrally networked databases as well as a variety of files contents and or data sets including lists of trusted peer machines encryption algorithms and or other data useful for implementing embodiments discussed herein among other things. The contents of storage device and or one or more databases may include instructions that are stored for execution by processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B to carry out functionality associated with each respective application.

Processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B may be in communication with or otherwise be configured to control user interface and communications interface . User interface may be in communication with processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B to receive an indication of a user input at user interface and or to provide an audible visual mechanical or other output to a user. As such user interface may include for example a keyboard a mouse a joystick a display a touch screen a microphone a speaker a cell phone and or one or more other input output mechanisms. In exemplary embodiments user interface may include interface options for changing parameters and other configurations of one or more machines included in system .

Communications interface may include one or more interface mechanisms for enabling communications with other devices and or other types of machines. In some embodiments communications interface may comprise any means embodied in hardware firmware software or combination thereof that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network and or any other device or module in communication with processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B. In this regard communications interface may include for example an antenna or multiple antennas and supporting hardware e.g. circuitry communication ports etc. firmware and or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network and or a communication modem or other hardware software for supporting communication via cable digital subscriber line DSL universal serial bus USB Ethernet and or other means for communication. In situations where communications interface communicates with a network such as network the network may be any of various examples of wireless or wired communication networks such as for example data networks like a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN and or a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet.

Processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B and or any other circuitry that may be incorporated into one or more machines in accordance with some embodiments discussed herein may operate under control of a computer program product and be used to control mechanical components and or exchange transitory signals containing data. For example a computer program product can be implemented on a computer readable storage medium such as storage device .

As will be appreciated any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus e.g. processor community management circuitry A and or community management circuitry B to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus create means for implementing the functions described herein. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that may cause a computer or other programmable apparatus to be configured to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means to implement the functions described herein. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions described herein. In this regard community machine may include any type of circuitry to facilitate the functionality discussed herein.

In some embodiments community internet drive may be implemented as a hierarchical namespace as shown in . In other additional or alternative embodiments community internet drive can include the degenerate case of a hierarchy of a single level. Community internet drive can include one or more folders of various types that can be linked mounted or otherwise associated with each other in various ways. For example connections A H can be included in network and or the dashed lines shown in .

Community internet drive may also include one or more data folders such as mount points A H. One or more data folders such as those in box may represent the centralized framework of the community internet drive provided by a central server. The folders in box may be provided as a service for the community and mount points A H can include content published by the community members using community machines. The folders of box although being configured to operate as a virtual file system in some embodiments can also or instead be included in one or more community internet drives such as community internet drive maintained by community members as opposed to network administrators and or be configured to contain data associated with categorization for namespacing data for generated pages of descriptive of controlling web presentations and or public domain data hosted as a service by community internet drive among other things.

One or more mount points such as mount points A H can be a subdirectory of one or more namespace folders of box and be attached to pull in community member data. In some embodiments the connections to those community members can include outside wiring in a datacenter used to implement the networked managed hub and or the connections shown in .

Box and box shown in are also shown in more detail in and respectively and illustrate an example of how community members can publish from their personal file systems in accordance with some embodiments. For example inside box connection H and mount point H illustrate how links to other elements of the community internet drive can be embedded within a subtree. Among other things such symbolic links can be to other devices owned by the same community member e.g. stored on the same user s community machine s such as on a user s tablet computer cloud based storage device and or laptop computer . As such private or public data from a laptop desktop and smart phone for the user can be aggregated under one directory tree in one virtual file system in some embodiments.

In the example shown by the user s published data in the shared portion of the storage device includes a link to other content on the community internet drive associated with the user. The link can refer to any other file or folder whether from the shared portion of the member s storage or elements of the otherwise private portion of local storage that are shared individually through that reference or even references to other data within the community internet drive from other members where the linking member must always have access to the linked content . Link can be implemented in any suitable way or combination thereof including without limitation using operating system features for writing a file making an entry in a file containing this and other settings and or adding a record to a database among other things. In some embodiments software executed by the member s community machine such as community machine can cause the member s community machine to be configured to connect across path so that the destination point of that symbolic link appears within the published space. The published folders and data in box including the resolved link are associated with the shared portion of the community machine s local storage device and therefore may appear within community internet drive .

In this regard the published contents for example of box and box can be files folders and or application data among other things included in the shared portion of a community machine s local storage device. As used herein files can be any collections of binary data but are typically collections of formatted data such as documents videos movies pictures music games and databases among other things. Folders refer to collections of files and or other sub folders that are used to organize files. For example box and box can include files and or folders among other things.

For example one or more community machine s such as server can include managed hub data and aid in coordinating the availability of data made available on the Internet or other network by the independent publishers. In practice some embodiments can include the shifting of processing to achieve differing optimizations such as having quality and or reliability of service for operations more at the managed hub side and efficiencies and scalability achieved by distributing or consolidating processing loads with the independent publishers.

Embodiments consistent with or similar to that shown in can combine several synergistic processes implemented by various modules included in the managed hub and or modules incorporated into the independent publishers. Module as used herein can include hardware such as circuitry discussed in connection with firmware and or software. Collectively the modules shown in can enable the community internet drive to provide at least some of the example functionality discussed herein.

For example the managed hub can include module as a core component which can be configured to construct and manage namespace s for the managed hub. The namespace and structure overseen by module specifies and identifies the contents of the virtual file system as illustrated in system . In some embodiments module can be hierarchical by default. In other embodiments module can include flat namespaces as a degenerate case. While a hierarchical namespace may be better in some embodiments for data organization and discovery even a flat namespace can allow assigning a unique uniform resource identifier URI to published content. As sometimes used herein a unique URI refers to identifying a unique asset based on the mount point of the data instance within the community internet drive as opposed to the opposite direction of a unique URI based on file contents regardless of location. Community machine s executing managed hub functions can track the instances of data especially the common copies off each progenitor file introduced into the virtual file system. For example consumers can request an instance of the data based on a URI and the managed hub can match make to all accessible copies of the data to the limits of service level for that member and the associated access lists. Generally speaking at least to some practical limit the more copies uploading simultaneously from publishers the faster the download to the consumer can be completed.

The managed hub can also include module which may configure the manage hub to authenticate users. Each user of the community internet drive can be identified upon requesting and or accessing the community internet drive an example of which is discussed in connection with e.g. . The user s identity can be determined even if that identification just marks the user as a temporary and or anonymous user as opposed to a registered community member and or other type of known user . Users who are known returning community members can be provided access to data based on and or specific to the users identity and any profile that may be associated with each of the community members. Module can be configured to work in conjunction with other modules such as module and or module discussed below.

Module can be configured to manage access and permissions for one or more community machines to provide managed hub functionality. The access and permissions managed by module are the access control for the virtual file system as illustrated in system . For example module can enable the managed hub e.g. server to track permissions from each publishing user of the independent publishers e.g. computer personal computer tablet laptop computer and or cellular device so that the view presented to a consumer end user is limited to match the end user s level of access. The independent publishers may use module to manage access lists and groups by for example restricting data using rules setting various degrees of security. For example the levels of security which may range between publicly available data and private data and or data that is specific one or more particular users. For example public data can be exposed to everyone e.g. similar to a public Internet web page private data can be defaulted to be restricted to personal use and in between levels of semi private data can be configured such that the data can be exposed only to people s machines where the people have for example been granted access individually or have be placed in an in group with access such as friends and family. Specific relationships associated with the data can be assigned to the data in response to a user entry and or in response to a preconfigured setting of the system. For example a relationship can be configured to enable particular users to be granted write access to create files in specific directories on a publisher s local drive. Also in some embodiments module and module can be configured to enable relationships that provide an individual end user and or some set of end users access to particular content.

Module which may be implemented by the independent publishers to manage friend and access lists can be configured to function in conjunction with for example module and or module . In some embodiments after module is used by a community member user to specify the user s desired relationships to be associated with the user s data the managed hub can be configured to use manage access and permissions even when that community member is offline. For example to limit spam one or more users may configure their respective portions of community internet drive to block or accept communications through module which come from users that are not in group members or otherwise receive notifications of changes associated with that user s data. For example when a first user s communications such as mail messaging and chat data is authorized for other users that the first user assigned to an in group those communications can be welcome or unwelcome to the other users depending on whether the other users also see the first user as belonging to an in group of theirs. When the relationship has two members mutually in in groups module has permissions to operate most fully in communication and notifications. For example a notification can be sent to in group members in response to one of the users adding data to the user s shared folder on the community internet drive. In this regard the community internet drive can be configured to provide value when the shared content and the communications are following connections that map personal relationships.

As another example other types of data such as posts can be treated by embodiments discussed herein as an announcement of public content. In some instances access seeds can be sent to leverage the location based URIs of the system and to module . As sometimes referred to herein access seeds are combinations of keys which may be bundled as a file to allow a particular user access to a particular data. A member of the general public for example might be granted access to data generally restricted to a user s friends for instance when the data is determined by the community internet drive to be somehow associated with the member of the public e.g. the data is a picture including the member of the public and the user having an in group association might be granted access to some data that was otherwise private. In some embodiments a particular member of the public might be granted access to a user s private data e.g. an accountant or attorney may be granted access to tax return data through an access seed.

When a file is added to the community internet drive from an external source that file may become an original or progenitor for all future chains of copies. Module of the managed hub can be leveraged to for example track and mange duplicate and or derivative files of that progenitor. For example the community internet drive can be configured to have an awareness of each file download the drive mediates. Until modified each downloaded file can be considered in the community internet drive to be a duplicate of the original. Being configured to consider downloaded files as duplicates provides a number of advantages some of which are discussed below.

As a first example when the original data is unavailable because e.g. the independent publisher hosting the data has been powered down or otherwise disconnected from the network the duplicate copy of the downloaded file can be provided to the end user when that end user has been authenticated as having been assigned the appropriate permissions by the independent publisher of the duplicate file. The duplicate file can in some embodiments still continue to exist after the original has been deleted. As another example the duplicate file can be used for internal operating efficiency. In such embodiments multiple sources for an upload can act to speed up the download to the end user where each uploader is participating in sharing their bandwidth to aid the downloader.

Derivative files in module can arise after the duplicates are edited and or otherwise substantively modified. Awareness of both duplicate and derivative files by the infrastructure implementing the community internet drive can aid in mitigating against link rot and provide other advantages when the original file is lost and or destroyed. As such some embodiments of the community internet drive despite being dependent on machines that can be powered down and or otherwise have no centralized control over their availability because control rests in each machine s user may achieve a higher reliability than might be achieved with a conventional website where each site redesign can destroy saved links.

Two functions that may be included in some embodiments of the community internet drive are one uploading content and other data for publishing and two downloading content and other data for the end user also sometimes referred to herein as the consumer . Several modules shown in can be configured to directly or indirectly support those operations. For example users of the independent publishers can choose which of their content to publish as discussed in connection with e.g. . When content has associated metadata e.g. descriptive data and or the user associated with the content is a registered user e.g. community member that has descriptive data module can be configured to manage the landing page searchable information and or other metadata associated with the content. The metadata can be published as well in some embodiments by module . As another example module can be configured to facilitate the managed hub functionality by notifying the managed hub and or in group machines directly or through the managed hub of newly available published data propagating through a social network of in group connections.

In some embodiments the metadata may include descriptions of the content time stamps author information thumbnails for image and video data other types of preview data for e.g. large or commercial content files and or any other type s of metadata. Previews for example can be created automatically based on an application association such as generating a low resolution or streamed copy and or the publishing machine can generate custom previews.

The managed hub may include module configured to facilitate the providing of various services such as publishing searching discovery and commerce among other things. For example module can be configured to allow the consumer to find data the consumer wishes to download.

As another example module can be configured to collect fees for commercial activity provided using one or more particular aspects of the managed hub functionality and or any or all other functionality discussed herein. Charges can accrue to commercial customers for use of for example commercial namespace the bandwidth provided and or used and the transaction s used for sales. Modules and operate under the guidance and constraints of module . As module supports publishing searching and discovery it will only expose and share content with members and community machines that are known to have access by . In the case of data restricted to an in group only those members with a personal relationship will have that content revealed. As module seeks to match make peers for a P2P exchange it must locate peers that both are known by to be hosting a copy with peers that also have access as is known by . In the case of data restricted to an in group the peer community machines are making connections that follow the social relationships of the members that own those machines increasing trust and security. Preferentially friends and family share with and download from friends and family keeping within the in group. In some embodiments to enable authenticated users to share data the content and or other data can always be encrypted using the same technique and or keys. In other embodiments varying encryption and or different encryption may be used. Module may also be included in some embodiments and be configured to facilitate service downloads among the independent publishers and or to other types of the consumers.

The independent publishers can likewise support fewer and or different features in embodiments consistent with . For example module can be configured to report published contents and be similar to but less powerful than module . For example module may omit descriptions that may be included in module . As such the consumer may be limited when browsing for content. However even with module being used instead of module once the consumer has found the desired content the managed hub can still be configured to locate and connect peers while managing encryption using module and the independent publishers can still be configured to service downloads using module . While replacing module with module may reduce efficiency ease of use and synergistic benefits such embodiments may still retain the reduction in barriers to publishing content as compared to known systems and methods. For example users that are community members may not have to select and purchase a domain name contract for content hosting and or install code to maintain their own web server FTP server or tomcat to publish so that a broader population can contribute data and files among other things. Advantages of embodiments consistent with as compared to those consistent with are simplicity in the implementation and lighter weight executables.

As such embodiments consistent with can be configured to vet connections before forwarding. A consumer may have acquired a link to content but the community internet drive can be configured to determine whether that user has permission to access the linked to content. If not no P2P connection will be made to the independent publisher hosting the data to which the link directs and the hosting independent publisher s IP address can remain private. In this regard vetting connections can include checking whether a consumer has any legitimate purpose in contacting a publisher of data. Such vetting may aid in protecting against an unauthorized consumer stumbling on a link URI to a file and using it to download data that was not intended for that consumer s consumption. For example if a consumer is not allowed access to that content based on in group or access lists the managed hub can simply deny the request and the consumer will never be provided the IP address of the publisher. No P2P connection will ever be made. Privacy and security are protected.

Additionally or alternatively a consumer s view when browsing can be constrained to their permissions and the consumer may not be able to get for example the IP address and open ports of publishing users when the publishing users have no content they have exposed to the general public. Basically the community internet drive provides a firewall function where embodiments discussed herein may also be configured to prohibit unauthorized consumers and or other unauthorized users from being provided data that enables the unauthorized users from being able to determine for example what content to ask for and or the IP address for sending user datagram protocol UDP messages among other things.

In some embodiments the independent publishers can be configured to open transfer connection protocol TCP connections to the managed hub where for reasons of security communication is initiated from the publisher side. For efficiency and to simplify interactions with routers and firewalls the file transfers themselves can be established with UDP tunneling but the UDP tunnel will only be established when there is proper access and legitimate purpose. One of the synergistic advantages that may be realized with embodiments consistent with that shown in is that shared authentication among community member users can protect privacy with access control while channeling interesting content and updates among other things to machines indicated to be used by in group members of the community member. As such embodiments discussed herein can be configured to enable the right people to get priority updates and the wrong people to be blocked from connecting.

At a determination can be made as to whether the user wishes to become a community member or be an anonymous user. As referred to herein an anonymous user includes a user who cannot be identified by the system a user who wishes to not be identified by the system and or any other user that the system determines wants to or should bypass regular user registration. This determination may be made based on one or more pieces of data received by the system. For example the system may receive a signal that indicates the user has selected an option to remain anonymous or to create a profile. The system may cause anonymous users to bypass regular registration.

As such in response to determining at that the user is an anonymous user the system may be configured to provide at the anonymous user open access to only public data on the community internet drive. In some embodiments anonymous users may not have to create a regular account with the community internet drive and can start downloading public files immediately at . Anonymous users can by definition used herein never be on an access list or be a member of any member s in group. Anonymous users may be prohibited from publishing data to the community internet drive. In other embodiments anonymous users may still be required to provide at least some information that may or may not also be used to create an account with the community internet drive and or various anonymous users may be treated differently based on e.g. the user s IP address location citizenship other affiliations and or any other information associated with the user that the system is able to determine .

In response to determining at that the user wishes to become a regular registered new user the process may proceed to and the system may be configured to create a user name and password at to be used for future authentication. For example at prompts may be generated and provided to a user the data received from the user may be checked for conflicts e.g. meeting predetermined rules associated with setting a username and or password and the user name and or password may be saved. In some embodiments the user name and password may instead or additionally be initially assigned to each user.

Each user can also be associated with one or more mount points on the community internet drive where the associated mount point s becomes embedded in the URI of all the user s published data. That mount point can be part of a namespacing process that is begun at . Each user can be in some embodiments assigned a unique user name ID and a unique mount point in the logical hierarchy of the community internet drive. Uniqueness here is in the sense that each mount point is associated with a single user account although it is possible for a single user to control more than one mount point. A centralized process for generating a namespace can help affix an often hierarchical meaning in that namespace while preventing collisions. The less flat the namespace e.g. the less the names are in one group or at one hierarchical depth the more useful the organization becomes for some embodiments. Hierarchical organization can be better for browsing and searching some embodiments.

As referred to herein collisions happen when the namespace is not unique such as when two members want to create a mountpoint with the same name. For example Jon Doe and Jane Doe both want jdoe their domain.com to be his her domain namespace. Even in embodiments that allow P2P protocols to be used to transfer data among the machines in the virtual file system the managed hub can be configured to assign the namespace to only one of Jon Doe or Jane Doe such as the first member who is requested the namespace.

As noted above at the system implementing the community internet drive may be configured to allow users to begin to select their namespace. A determination can be made at whether the user s account is associated with an internet domain that is already registered. If so the system can be configured to allow the user to opt to associate the mount point for the user s allotted portion of the community internet drive to that domain name.

In response to determining at that the user s account with the community internet drive is to be associated with the user s internet domain the process can include configuring the system to further verify at that the user has authorization to represent that domain.

Users with existing internet domains may also be business publishers and or other types of users and in some embodiments can be offered more options at to define their data publishing beyond those options of value to typical member users of the community internet drive. For example the community internet drive might redirect traffic to the community member s existing URL or the business user might integrate an application programming interface API to allow more seamless operation of file sharing between the community internet drive and community member s non community infrastructure e.g. private portions of machines and or entire machines that may be accessible to community members but not be part of the community internet drive .

In response to determining at that that the user s account with the community internet drive is to be associated with something other than a previously registered internet domain the process may proceed to . At the system can be configured to determine whether the user has indicated a desire to create an impersonal account which may be the default choice at .

If so community internet drive can be configured to generate a community namespace for the mount point at and the system can proceed to let the user publish.

At the system can enable the user to choose a directory including content to be published thereby causing the partitioning of the user s local storage device into a shared portion and a private portion. Selecting the local directory to mount at can enable the system to manage publications and downloads of the user s content. Downloads happen as this member requests copies of shared files and they are placed by the community internet drive into this directory or into a sub folder beneath it. Publishing is automatic for any files within or below that directory on this member s local storage device and uploads can happen as other consumers requests those files although the consumer may only know the mountpoint on the community internet drive and nothing about where that shared portion of that local storage device might be embedded within the private portion of the local storage device. This distinction is implicitly and explicitly handled through namespace assignment URI construction and URI parsing. Namespace management is concerned with mapping an entry point for that user onto the community internet drive typically as the leading portion of the URI. Typically the first element identifies the domain of the community internet drive such as w3disk.com. In some embodiments some number of folders and pages in the communal portion of the community internet drive website are traversed as is shown in . Finally the mountpoint itself is reached which is reserved for and identified with the one individual user. Later elements of the URI are actually the path within the shared portion of the member s storage that is traversed in reaching the file or folder being uniquely identified. Thus the URI in some embodiments can traverse three or more systems from domain through website to local storage in identifying and reaching content often in the member s home or office or even on a mobile device in their pocket. An effectively unlimited number of systems can be traversed physically as the URI embeds symbolic links or chains of symbolic links.

At one or more keys can be generated that can be associated with the community member s account and used for future request validation s by the community member. Keys can be based on client and server identities mount points paths user entered keys and pass phrases among other things. Among other things the community internet drive uses those keys to validate incoming UDP traffic and stamp outgoing UDP traffic during P2P exchanges to protect against spoofing of identities.

The community internet drive can be configured to function predominately by cooperation where the community internet drive can enable users to opt into their degree of participation at . For example the more a community member invests at into the community internet drive the more resources of the community internet drive may be allocated to the community member. As a more detailed example the amount of storage on other users community machines made available for copies of a user s data may be correlated to the amount of local storage device that the user is willing to share as local internet drive B for hosting backups and duplicates among other things on the community internet drive .

A number of other benefits may also be provided by the community internet drive as an incentive or for any other reason to increase a user s level of participation. For example the more space on the community internet drive that the user has access to the more copies of the user s data may be maintained by the community internet drive. Having more copies of the user s data may enable the user s in group and or other people to have better access to the user s data due to improved data availability and faster delivery even when the user decides to power down or otherwise remove the user s machine from the community internet drive.

In some embodiments some and or all community members e.g. those that attain a certain level of participation receive a promotional level of access and or pay a fee may also get credit for bandwidth shared in addition to or instead of storage space shared . Bandwidth shared may depend on the community member s uptime their upload bandwidth and the amount of drive space they share among other things. Other benefits community members could receive for participation are additional system uploaders being activated to improve their personal download experience and offsets for fees for maintaining custom premium namespacing among other things.

 Upgrading at as referred to herein is what happens when a community member pays for upgraded service from the community internet drive. Improved service levels from the community internet drive can be bundled with other incentives for example usage of a custom premium namespace or suppression of advertising. In addition to or instead of granting such benefits based on the user s commitment of resources under the user s control to the community internet drive some embodiments discussed herein may be configured to provide some or all of the advantages discussed herein as well as others not discussed explicitly herein based on other criteria such as in recognition of the user s role in aiding in the maintaining of the managed hub the user receiving a promotional level of access and or the user paying a fee to receive some or all of the benefits discussed herein among other things.

At once the new user s account is fully defined the system may be configured to generate and transmit invitations to friends to join the community interne drive. Invitations can be generated in a number of manners most simply by generating an email invitation but also through searching for existing members to add directly to their in group and also keys can be generated and shared when the person being invited prefers coming to a website directly over receiving an email. The invitations can be received and accepted by the system so that those known friends and family can be added to an in group and get access to the new user s restricted material. The process may then end at .

Returning to in response to the system determining the user has indicated a desire to create a more personal account namespace instead of the default account namespace the process can proceed to . For example a user can choose no at in response to the system asking if the user would like to set up a default impersonal account and the process can then determine at whether the user would like to construct a namespace that includes geographic information related to the user.

In response to determining at that the user would like to include geographic information such as country state city or zip code the geographic information can be received by the system at . The data associated with the geographic information can be used among other things to build the namespace to help more clearly identify that user at . The managed hub can be configured to ensure that the combined namespace generated at is not already owned by another user and is unique. Once the mount point is defined the user can move on to publishing as discussed above.

An example namespace including geographic information such as Encinitas Calif. and a user name such as Nathan may be www.w3disk.com us ca encinitas nathan as compared to a namespace that includes only user name Sarah information www.w3disk.com sarah . The leading us may be geographical information referring to the United States determined based on the servers and other networking components used to route the user s requests as opposed to being provided by the user at . Different namespaces have differing advantages and value whether the member prefers the prestige of a shorter namespace or not sharing their location while to other members more explicit namespaces including location have more meaning. In other embodiments only user provided geographical information or data in general may be included in the namespace. The process may then proceed to .

In response to determining at that the user would rather not include geographic information to build the namespace the process may proceed to and system can be configured to receive subject matter data to define the domain namespace. As such systems in accordance with some embodiments can be configured to enable community members with particular interests to congregate around namespaces as they publish and share. For example a namespace that includes among other things English music for teenagers can have the namespace en.w3disk.com music teen aubrey. In some embodiments such as for business purposes variable fees might be associated with some or all of the available interest domains and or geographic data among other things .

In response to determining at that the user has selected to define a domain namespace using subject matter information the process can proceed to to enable the user to select the language of the user s content and or select from the supported subject domains at . The process may then proceed to discussed above.

Another option that may be included in process is a determination at as to whether the user would like to define any other choices for building the user s namespace in the community internet drive. For example in response to determining at that the user would like to define other aspects of the namespace the process may proceed to and the user may find an open location in the community internet drive s virtual file system selecting where to insert the user s mountpoint.

In some embodiments one or more namespaces may be tagged by the system as being premium namespaces for mount points and can be offered for a fee e.g. a flat fee subscription etc. . In such embodiments one or more additional steps may be included in the process that enables the verification of payment. Other steps may be included in the process and or any other process discussed herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more steps may be rearranged and or combined. For example while and are shown as being alternative functions in the process the functions associated with and may be performed in series even when one or more of the decisions at and or are affirmative.

In response to determining at that the user would like to proceed with easy publishing the community internet drive can be configured to provide various options to the user to save time and effort.

For example at the system may be configured to provide the user a one click publishing option. The one click options may include for example a right click option and or menu options can be installed for the operating system or the browser among other things. The community internet drive can either make a copy of that file within a published folder or it can create a link such as described at based on member preferences. Full copies are valuable in some circumstances because the data is more redundant and secure but links are fast to create and use less space on the local hard drive.

In response to receiving an indication at that the user has selected a user a one click publishing option the community internet drive can execute at the various functions needed to publish content for the user. For example at the community internet drive can be configured to set default permissions and move or link the file in the published subtree automatically fill in descriptive information to the extent possible generate a preview thumbnail notify all members of the in group upload to in group members who have requested their own local copies by default among other things.

At hub management components can be notified of the publication. For example the independent publisher using module can be configured to report the action and new content to both modules and at the managed hub. Based on user preferences the managed hub using module can propagate the news and notify all members of an in group using module .

Returning to in response to determining that the one click publishing option was not selected the system can be configured to enable the user to at drag and drop a file for publishing into the subtree on the local drive that was defined at in . In different implementations these actions can be accessed and controlled through a web browser through an application with a custom user interface and or by using the operating system directly.

At the system can be configured to enable the user to and or automatically set or adjust permissions based on for example user preferences and or the publishing folder s settings. In some embodiments some or all of the permissions can be adjusted by the user at . In some embodiments a plug in or other component can enable the community internet drive to provide the user a view of the published files offered to the user by the community internet drive which may also be used as a confirmation to the user that the publishing is completed at that moment. The independent publisher can also be configured to generate and transmit from module to module and module a notification of the publication at such that the newly published content can be integrated into the managed hub functionality. For example the managed hub may let the user in group users and or other users find the newly published content.

Returning to in response to determining the user rather proceed with a custom or other type of non easy publication process may proceed to to identify the source within their storage system.

At the system can enable the user to choose at a destination location for where it will appear on the community internet drive as part of the published subtree. The community internet drive may be configured to support multiple operating systems for example Microsoft s Windows Apple Inc. s Mac OS and Linux. Local disk drive and file access can be part of a browser plug in with permissions or part of an independent application written in Java C C or some other language. Local file access can be written using Boost or similar libraries to achieve OS independence at compilation or custom clients can exist at the source code level for each platform. In practice trade offs for performance ease of use and reliability may lead those skilled in the art to selections of different equivalents that achieve the same result of examining the local file system.

At the system can be configured to confirm the user has the proper permissions and or other authorizations to publish at that location. For example the system can be configured to determine at among other things that the user has ownership of the namespace the content would be published under.

In some embodiments a determination can be made at whether or not one or more symbolic links should be created for files and or folders. For example files and or folders that do not exist at the mirrored location on the local drive corresponding to the published location on the community internet drive can be created as symbolic links. In some embodiments a full copy can be made instead or in addition to a symbolic link.

When locations differ and a determination to generate a link is made at independent publisher and or other component can be configured to persist the data at to restore that publishing between sessions.

Another publishing decision that may be made is whether to share application data at . The determination at may be made after and or after determining at not to generate a link. Application data may come from a file with an application association such as word processing files spreadsheet files presentations audio video and image files. The community internet drive can incorporate understanding of such file formats and applications so that some or all of the file can be streamed or published in part.

In response to determining at that application data should be shared data can be accessed at based on requests and queries from the consumer including but not limited to file chunks document pages copies of music and video tracks streamed music and video tracks video sequences and database queries. In some embodiments independent publishers may be configured to persist the application association that can process requests for application data. Process may then proceed to after or after determining at that application data should be shared.

After process may proceed to and proceed to complete the publishing process. The file from the independent publishers may already be there to be discovered but the publishing user and or other users may want to a pass around references to that data. A determination can be made at whether to create a reference.

In response to determining a reference link should be created at a link may be created at . One of the more simple options is to generate a link as a URI. The community internet drive can be configured to use that link to retrieve the data when it is presented by an authorized user even recovering from outages at the publisher or deletion of the original source when copies are available. In some embodiments process may end after at .

In some embodiments one or more additional options may be provided to for example the publishing user and or owner of the data. For example in response to determining generation of a reference link is to be omitted at a determination can be made at as to whether to create an access seed to the data. If an access seed is not to be generated process may end at .

If an access seed is to be generated process can proceed to to create one or more access seeds by combining URIs keys and user IDs among other things to grant individual access to data that would otherwise typically have higher restrictions. In some embodiments granting individual private access to a public file may be harmless. The access seed creator can be configured to combine at reference information like the URI and the user ID within the community internet drive along with security keys and writes them into a file. At that file can be sent to the identified consumer.

If the consumer has opened a link at the consumer can evaluate descriptions and metadata to decide whether to move on to saving that file or folder locally at . If the destination folder already exists the community internet drive can synchronize and patch contents rather than re downloading data that is unchanged.

If the consumer has discovered the file at by exploring the community internet drive and thus have a view of the hierarchy exposed the consumer can save to a default location or drag and drop at the file or folder where they wish. If the newly created and downloaded copy is itself published the user can set or adjust permissions at which may also occur after and or .

At a determination is made whether to open the URI from a browser including any plug in modules. Browsers excel at ease of use and an intuitive interface while custom applications excel when more efficiency access to hardware and UI complexity are necessary. If a browser is used clicking on the link and or pasting it in the browser at can function as a request for the file from the community internet drive. In some embodiments client application software firmware and or hardware that services downloads can also be configured to offer a user interface UI for communicating with the managed hub. Instead of using a browser a determination can be made at to open that client application at and then paste or type the link at into the UI.

In either case the managed hub can be configured to authenticate the user at and confirm the consumer s privileges at to view the data. At this moment the consumer is in the process of making a decision whether to download the content and the managed hub can be configured to display any descriptive metadata it has stored.

In response to determining at that the consumer desires more detail additional descriptive metadata can be requested. The community internet drive can be configured to examine the pool of data from all the community members and select the set of copies where the consumer has access permission. The managed hub can then request more information from independent publishers in that set.

At the metadata including but not limited to file size modification and creation dates descriptions directory listings number of online peers in the set number of downloads and ratings are displayed to the user to inform the user s decision. Any previews of the contents can also be provided at . These can be constructed custom by the publisher such as pages from a book copies of tracks of music or video streamed tracks of music or video lower resolution images or video cropped pictures or time cut sequences. Associated applications can also automatically generate and provide low resolution previews as copies or streams at .

In response to determining at not to download the file folder the process ends at by e.g. proceeding to of . In response to determining at to download the file folder the storage location can be selected at and the file folder downloaded. For example the user can be provided the option to accept a default location or select the storage location on their local drive. When the storage location selected is within the subtree already published to the community internet drive the subtree can be selected based on information already available at the hub. To download the file folder from a web browser a temporary copy could be cached in a temporary space. To select a storage location for a long term or larger copy how to traverse the file system may vary based on the programming language and operating system at the community machine being used by the user. In this regard the community internet drive can be configured to implement a multiplicity of traversal schemes as the community internet drive can be configured to support multiple operating systems be implemented as a web browser plug in e.g. with permissions and or be implemented as an independent application written in Java C C and or some other programming language. For example in some embodiments the community internet drive can be configured using Boost or similar libraries to achieve OS independence at compilation and or custom clients can exist at the source code level for each platform. In practice trade offs for performance ease of use and reliability lead those skilled in the art to selections of different equivalents that achieve the same result of traversing the local file system. The process may then end at by e.g. proceeding to of .

A determination can be made at as to whether to open the access seed with a browser. In response to determining at that the access seed is to be opened by a web browser the access seed may be opened at using for example one or more plug in modules. For example a request for the file or folder from the community internet drive can cause a client application that services downloads to offer a user interface UI for communicating with the managed hub.

In response to determining at that the access seed should be opened in a manner other than using a browser the access seed may be opened with a client application at for example. In some embodiments application associations based on file extensions can open the access seed and application together at once.

After or the managed hub can be configured to authenticate the user at . The system can also be configured to confirm at that the packaged keys are authorized to grant that particular user access to that data owned by the publisher.

Because the consumer at this moment is still in the process of making a decision whether to download the content in some instances the system can be configured to display any descriptive metadata it has stored. In response to determining at that the consumer desires more detail additional descriptive metadata can be requested and displayed at . For example the community internet drive can be configured to examine the pool of data from one or more including all of the community members and select the set of copies where the consumer has access permission. The system can then be configured to request more information from any of independent publishers that both hold a duplicate copy and who allow access to the downloader. The metadata displayed at may include for example file size modification and creation dates descriptions directory listings number of online peers in the set number of downloads and or ratings to aid in inform the user s decision. Any available previews of the contents can also be viewed at when such previews are provided by the publisher and supported by an associated application.

In response to determining to forgo obtaining descriptive data or after displaying the data a determination can be made at as to whether to download the file folder at . If so the storage location can be selected at . If not a default location can be used. If a default location is used and or after the process can end at by e.g. proceeding to of .

At a determination can be made as to whether a browser should be used to access the community internet drive. In response to determining that an application or something other than a web browser should be used a client application for example can be opened at to access the community internet drive.

In response to determining that a web browser should be used and or after accessing the community internet drive via another vehicle the system can be configured to authenticate the user at .

Based on the user s identity the system can be configured at to limit the user s view to content and other data that the user has permission to access where typically that data will be personal and private fully public or limited within a social in group. At the system can be configured to display the user s home location as a starting point. Each user s home location may include for example content the user published and or favorite connections to content and or members of their in group among other things.

From the home location a determination can be made at whether nodes should be traversed. For example starting either from the root or from any of user s preferred connections one or more nodes can be traversed and the various files folders can be explored at .

In response to determining that nodes are not to be traversed at this time a determination can be made at as to whether a substree should be searched and or otherwise explored. If so one or more subtrees can be explored at . If not a determination can be made at whether or not the exploring should be stopped e.g. in response to receiving a user indication that the exploring is complete . If exploring is to be continued can be executed.

In response to determining at that the exploring is complete a source file and or folder of interest can be selected at . In some embodiments may be performed while the consumer is in the process of making a decision whether to download the content and the system can determine at whether or not descriptive metadata and or other data that has been stored should be displayed.

In response to determining at that descriptive data is to be displayed e.g. in response to receiving an indication of the user s desire to view more detail additional data can be requested and displayed at . For example the community internet drive can be configured to examine the pool of data from all the community members and select the set of copies where the consumer has access permission. The system can also or instead be configured to request more information from any of independent publishers that both hold a duplicate copy and who allow access to the downloader. The metadata including but not limited to file size modification and creation dates descriptions directory listings number of online peers in the set number of downloads and ratings can be displayed at to the user to inform their decision. Any available previews of the contents might also be presented at .

In response to determining descriptive data is not to be displayed or after displaying the descriptive data a determination can be made at as to whether or not a file folder should be downloaded. If not the user can continue to explore at . In some embodiments an option may be provided enabling the process to end at any point like other processes discussed herein .

In response to determining at that a file folder is to be downloaded an option may be provided at enabling the user to select the storage location. A default location and or user specified location may be selected for download. The location may be for example on the user s community machine s local storage device among other places. The process may then end at by e.g. proceeding to or of .

At a determination can be made whether the first peer to contact e.g. the peer associated with the independent publishing user referenced in the URI is online. If so the requesting user s community machine is connected by the system to the publishing user at .

Connecting peers at may include sending different instructions to the requesting user also referred to herein sometimes as the consumer and publishing user also referred to herein sometimes as the publisher where a duplicate host can be acting for the publisher. The machines of both the consumer and the publisher may request and or receive IP addresses and credentials for the other machine from the managed hub. Additionally the managed hub provides both of the machines with the file identifier. Consumers may utilize decryption and file re assembly instructions in some or all instances again as instructed by the managed hub. In some embodiments for reasons of privacy and security a duplicate host may be uninformed of the encryption decryption and or file splitting among other things of the data they are uploading on command from the managed hub.

A publishing host in some embodiments can be given instructions for encryption and file splitting. File splitting may have any number of modes and for example may have two modes. When two modes are implemented one mode can be used to reduce the size at the duplicate host and the second can be used to add a barrier to the duplicate host snooping into the contents. Post encryption the system can be configured to enable some bit patterns to be removed from the data and stored on for example different hosts. Host recipients of the split files can be kept ignorant of each other in some embodiments the combined data identity any encryption and or whether they hold a complete file or some split among other things.

In response to determining at the URI source is not currently online the download request can be queued at for when that publishing user and or the related machine comes back online. In some embodiments other copies of the requested content can be searched for that may be stored on other user s community machine s for the publishing user.

After the requesting user s machine is connected at to a machine having the publishing user s content and or after queuing the request at a determination can be made at whether there are in group members online with permissions open for download to that consumer. In response to finding such in group members those in group members can be connected at which may be the same as or similar to the functionality discussed in connection with . Those in group members will then join in sharing use of their storage and bandwidth to service the download as described at modules and typically with a friend or family member.

If response to determining at there are no in group members online with permissions also open for download to that consumer a download request for each of those in group members can be queued at similar to or the same as the queuing at .

At a determination can be made as to whether any public sources are online that may contain the same data. In response to finding such a public source at the public source machine can be connected at which may be the same as or similar to the functionality discussed in connection with .

In response to determining at such a public source is not currently online some embodiments may be configured to queue at the public sources which were found at to also or instead service the download. In some embodiments whether the public sources are queued is correlated with the number of peers found at and or . The managed hub will make an estimate for the expected service to the consumer basically how long the download will take and based on other activity levels in the community internet drive plus the system load on the public uploaders and make a determination of a fair allocation of resources and service.

At a determination can be made as to whether or not the download has successfully commenced. If so download progress is reported to the user at . The system for example can be configured to report progress to the user s community machine if the download was initiated from a browser the application or otherwise. The process may then end at .

If at it is determined that the download did not successfully commence the user can be warned at to leave the community machine online to wait for a queued download. Also the user can be offered derivative copies at if for example a publisher had a copy but since modified it or at least changed the modification date since the data s original download. The process may then end at .

The two peers then handshake at based on the system s introduction at . Handshaking can include for example a determination as to whether or not the peers may have been associated with each other as mutual members of each other s in groups where keys and or other identifying data was previously exchanged between the peers or whether this is a one time introduction authenticated at the managed hub.

At a determination can be made as to whether the contact between the peers is based on special access bundled in an access seed. As such the execution of may serve as a third level of identification that can be made.

If so the access seed can be verified at . After and or after a determination is made at that an access seed was not used to as a basis for the peers to contact each other a determination can be made at as to whether application data rather than e.g. a complete file or folder is being requested. As in and the community internet drive can parse or otherwise meaningfully examine into file formats for known application types.

In response to determining that application data is being selected the publisher can be enabled to select the data of interest at based on e.g. that application view of the data. Examples include but are not limited to pages in a document copies of video or music tracks streamed video or music tracks and or records from a database or an Excel file among other things.

After and or after determining that application data is not being requested at the peers may then agree to transfer the data and start transferring that data in chunks at . The integrity of each chunk of data can be validated at . For example each chunk can be encrypted as directed by the system for the transfer which can have a special meaning when the receiving peer is hosting a backup or duplicate and is never given the key for decryption. For further protection a backup host can be missing parts of the file even at a bit level that would interfere with the decrypting of the file should the key ever be obtained. Even though that backup host might have a partial and encrypted copy that the backup host cannot read the system can be configured to aid the downloader to assemble a complete copy and provide the key for decryption. In some embodiments if the user selected a file or folder as opposed to e.g. application data the resulting data can be written to the local storage. As another example when the peer is hosting a backup the known duplicate can be written to local storage. In some embodiments the community internet drive may be configured to implement a multiplicity of writing schemes used to execute the functionality discussed herein.

At the completion of the data transfer the exactness of the new copy can be confirmed at . Exactness verification can be included in the managed hub functionality of system when for example the download included hosts with only partial and or encrypted copies of the data. This may add protection from peers masquerading for access and counterfeiting their ownership of data when they do not have rights. In response to determining the copy was not exact at can be repeated.

In response to determining at that the copy is exact the connections can be closed and the managed hub of the system can be notified of the availability of another copy at . The managed hub with associate this new copy with the original progenitor so that future downloads can activate this peer as an identical data source for any instance or copy of that progenitor file. The process may then end at .

At the managed hub can cause the system to save the descriptive data associated with the published file so that the published file remains discoverable when the publisher is offline. The descriptive data can also include previews of the published file in some embodiments.

At account data for the publisher can be examined to determine if the publisher is entitled to a backup and or any other services. The determination at may be made based on publisher s level of participation in the community internet drive any associated upgraded services and or the publisher s preferences. In response to determining at that the publisher is not entitled to the community internet drive backing up the publisher s data and or performing any other services the process may end at .

In response to determining at that the publisher is entitled to an enhanced service level such as the community internet drive storing one or more redundant copies of the publisher s data for better reliability and quality of service a determination can be made at where to save the data.

For example at the managed hub can cause the system to determine whether the highest reliability is appropriate by saving the data at the server machines. Various factors may be considered in making the determination at including publisher participation publisher service upgrades rarity of data freshness of data and or data size among other things. If for example the managed hub determines there is sufficient value to the data the data can be copied at to a networked database managed by the managed hub absent the control of a peer user.

In response to determining at not to save the data a networked database or after saving the data at the networked data base at the data may be backed up to one or more community machines under one or more peers control. In some embodiments for scalability and or other reasons the data will not be saved at the hub at and backups at can be made instead. Factors considered for determining the number of and which peers community machines to activate for the backup of the publisher s data may include for example publisher participation publisher service upgrades rarity of data freshness of data data size and or any privacy limitations expressed by the publisher if they do not trust encryption among other things. For example a publisher might only allow replication of their data onto community machines associated with the publisher s identified in group. Similarly the member hosting the duplicate as explained at module is more generous in hosting data from an in group member who is typically a friend or family member. The process may then end at . for peer to peer communications may function the same in this case when the managed hub initiates the data transfer for creating backup copies as it did during a regular member initiated download.

As such a number of advantages may be realized by various embodiments discussed herein. For example the centralization of community file and data management creates a whole greater than the parts. Local hard drives and other storage can become interconnected into a vast whole. Once interconnected the ease and efficiency for transfers searches and comparisons improves relative to prior systems. Multiple internal operations can be aggregated and chained into single inclusive steps for the user.

Ultimately embodiments discussed herein can improve publishing discovery and transferring of data through combinations of features. When a community member joins through registration the new member may receive personal namespace such as e.g. through an internet URL and file sharing functionality on the member s community machine s . After that the new member does not have to select and purchase a domain name contract for content hosting or install code to maintain a web server FTP server or tomcat so that a broader population can contribute data and files. Basic publishing can be exactly as simple as drag and drop. Basic downloading can be equally as simple with drag and drop. The pool of community data can be searchable and browsable for discovery along with announcements to an in group of new content. Massive files such as high definition video can be shared beyond what can be sent with email or that might fit on a compact disk flash drive and or other removable storage devices. Physical copies such as to compact disks digital versatile disks Blu ray disks and or flash drives can be obviated and the data passes directly onto the consumer s storage such as a hard drive or solid state drive .

Data management and user authentication provided by embodiments discussed herein can protect member identities and IP addresses when members would rather avoid sharing data with the broader public beyond their friends listed in an in group. Because some embodiments provide for bandwidth management for performance and scalability that scalability allows for the data variety and redundancy to create value. Because of the greater ease of use for publishing and downloading users can link file addresses for data existing on their home drives in forums blogs diggs SMS and instant messenger traffic. Because there is tracking of copies and duplicates across the community internet drive there is mitigation against link rot. An exactly equivalent copy can often be delivered. More consumer choice is enabled for what when and where to download across a rich and browsable namespace.

In some embodiments the familiar view of file path is meshed with the domain URL for the community internet drive. Hard drives SSDs and any other storage devices can be linked into one massive virtual drive across various geographical locations such as across the planet or to the limits of the internet and broadband communications or to the limits set by one or more users. Files on personal storage devices can be linked and downloaded through a URL the consumer opens in the consumer s web browser. The community internet drive or portions of it can be integrated with the OS on the local machine to appear as a connected physical drive. Removing the barriers and gaps makes the entire system more intuitive for the user. As such in some embodiments the disjoint pieces become one coherent whole.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. For example while the discussion herein often references examples based on reading and storing data the participating members of the community internet drive may also manage editing access to certain of their data and storage without departing from the spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments specifically disclosed herein and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

