---

title: Identifying and correcting a bit error in a FRAM storage unit of a semiconductor device
abstract: An embodiment of semiconductor device including a control unit and an FRAM storage unit is disclosed. The FRAM storage unit contains FRAM cells. The control unit includes a predetermined test data pattern. The control unit is configured to read the FRAM cells that contain a test data pattern in a margin-mode, compare the read out bit information with the test data pattern to determine whether a bit error is present in the dedicated FRAM cells. When a bit error is present, the control unit is configured to read-out the complete FRAM storage unit in a recovery-mode and refresh all FRAM cells of the FRAM storage unit by writing back the read out bit information to the respective FRAM cells. In the margin-mode, the read operation is performed using a lower read-sensitivity compared to the read operation reading out the complete FRAM storage unit that is performed in the recovery-mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08576604&OS=08576604&RS=08576604
owner: Texas Instruments Incorporated
number: 08576604
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120206
---
This patent application claims priority from German Patent Application No. 10 2011 010 946.3 filed Feb. 10 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A ferro electric random access memory also referred as FeRAM or FRAM is a random access memory similar in construction to a DRAM. Since an FRAM memory uses a ferro electric film as for a capacitor to store data instead of a dielectric layer it is non volatile. An FRAM storage unit has the characteristics of both ROM Read only Memory and RAM Random Access Memory and allows high speed writing while having a high endurance low power consumption and tamper resistance The capability of non volatile data storage in FRAMs is based on the spontaneous polarization effect of ferro electric materials like lead zirkonate titanate PZT due to an applied electric field. The spontaneous polarization is typically due to a displacement of a single atom in the crystal structure and does not disappear in the absence of the applied electric field. The polarization direction depends on the polarity of the electric field across the ferro electric layer material. A remanent polarization remains after removal of the electric field and a direction of the remanent polarization in the ferro electric capacitor provides a basis for the non volatile data storage states in the FRAM memories.

The polarization change of a ferro electric capacitor versus an applied voltage is exemplarily shown in . Due to the remanent polarization this curve shows a hysteresis loop like ferro magnetic materials. The signal margin P P 1 P 0 of the ferro electric capacitor is the difference in the remanent polarization between the Data 1 and Data 0 state. Although the polarization of each individual unit cell is tiny the net polarization of several domains each capacitor inside an FRAM cell comprises several unit cells can be large enough for detection using standard sense amplification designs. The main effect of polarization is a non zero charge per unit area of the ferro electric capacitor that is existing at zero voltage and does not disappear over time. The polarization charge corresponds to a voltage across the capacitor in a same way as the magnetic flux of a ferro magnetic core corresponds to the current through said core.

However data retention of a non volatile FRAM i.e. the remanent polarization of the ferro electric material is lowered mainly by three effects. First there is a polarization relaxation which is a polarization reduction that happens right after a data write cycle. This effect takes place in a millisecond time range after the writing process and after about 15 ms a steady state may be assumed. A second effect is imprint which is the stabilization of polarization in a preferred state. The so called Same State retention is strengthened while the Opposite State retention is considerably weakened. Finally there is thermal depolarization which is a reduction of the spontaneous polarization with increasing temperature of the ferro electric material. Thermal depolarization is due to the effect that the spontaneous polarization decreases if the temperature of the ferro electric material approaches the phase transition temperature i.e. the Curie Temperature TC of the ferro electric material. Even though TC for PZT is about 430 C. due to different order phase transitions this effect is already observed at temperatures used with packing of semiconductor devices and assembly of electronic end equipment boards.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor device comprising an FRAM storage unit and a method for identifying and correcting a bit error in an FRAM storage unit that are improved with respect to detection and restoration of thermally degraded bits of the FRAM storage unit.

In one aspect of the invention a semiconductor device comprising a control unit and an FRAM storage unit having FRAM cells comprising a predetermined test data pattern is provided. The control unit is configured to read the FRAM cells in a margin mode wherein the read FRAM cells are dedicated to the test data of the test data pattern. Further the control unit is configured to compare the read out bit information with the predetermined test data pattern to determine whether a bit error is present in the dedicated FRAM cells. If so the complete FRAM storage unit is read out in a recovery mode and all FRAM cells of the FRAM storage unit are refreshed by writing back the read out bit information to the respective FRAM cells. The control unit is configured to perform the read operation in the margin mode using a lower read sensitivity compared to the read operation reading out the complete FRAM storage unit that is performed in the recovery mode.

Thermal depolarization affects all cells of an FRAM storage unit in a same way. Accordingly the FRAM cells that are dedicated to the predetermined test data pattern are suitable for testing the thermal degradation of the complete FRAM storage unit. If a read out of this reference memory cells fails it is assumed that all over the memory i.e. all FRAM cells of the FRAM storage unit have degraded too. However since a lower read sensitivity is used the degradation will not be complete and read out of the FRAM cells will still work if an increased sensitivity is used in the recovery mode. Data information that is recovered in the recovery mode wherein as much as possible bit information shall be safeguarded is stored and written back to the FRAM storage unit in order to refresh the memory.

The test data pattern is read during a startup sequence of the semiconductor device. However the check may be carried out frequently i.e. after expiration of a predetermined time span. Advantageously no user interaction is necessary.

According to an embodiment of the invention in the margin mode a sense voltage is applied to the FRAM cells comprising the test data pattern so as to lower a bit cell signal of the respective FRAM cells. According to another advantageous embodiment the FRAM cells of the FRAM storage unit comprise a sense amplifier for providing a bit line signal and the sense voltage is applied to the sense amplifier so as to lower a level of the bit cell output signal provided to the bit line. Applying a sense voltage means reducing the actual bit cell signal by a given amount. If the semiconductor device or even the FRAM storage unit was exposed to a temperature causing an appreciable thermal depolarization the bit cell signal of the reference cells i.e. the FRAM cells comprising the predetermined test data pattern is no longer strong enough to exceed the sense voltage and therefore the read out fails. The sense voltage is generated on chip and applied to the embedded FRAM memory during this operation.

According to another aspect of the invention a predetermined set of parameters is used for a standard read out operation of the FRAM cells and for the read out operation of the complete FRAM storage in the recovery mode a further set of parameters is applied so as to provide a read process having a higher bit cell signal in comparison to the bit cell signal in the read operation using the set of parameters for the standard read out. In an aspect of the invention the further set of parameters causes a timing of the bit cell signals to slow down and or a plate line to provide a higher voltage to the FRAM cells in comparison to the standard read out operation.

In modern high performance and high density memories the normal operation speed and voltage levels are a trade off between performance occupied area of the memory cells and reliability. Slowing down the timing of the respective parameters typically improves the signal to noise ratio but may however not meet the system speed requirements. Higher voltage levels will improve the bit cell signal but may exceed the operating voltage range and are therefore not used in normal operation. However for a recovery read out these parameters are acceptable on an exceptional basis. Advantageously reading out the FRAM cell in the recovery mode allows recovering as much information as possible.

According to another embodiment of the invention the control unit is further configured to perform the write back operation using the further set of parameters. Advantageously the control unit is further configured to perform a bit error correction before writing back the read out bit information. In other words the recovery read may advantageously be combined with an active error detection and error correction. In case no uncorrected errors remain the recovery read out was successful and the data integrity of the FRAM storage unit is fully restored. Once the recovery read has finished the data pattern and the reference pattern that are stored in the respective FRAM cells are advantageously fully restored and refreshed. After restoring the normal timing in case the further set of parameters is applied the semiconductor device can resume its normal operation e.g. the boot sequence.

In another aspect of the invention a method for identifying and correcting a bit error in an FRAM storage unit of a semiconductor device is provided. The FRAM storage unit has a plurality of FRAM cells comprising a predetermined test data pattern. The method comprises the steps of reading the FRAM cells that are dedicated to the test data patter in a margin mode. The method further comprises comparing the read out bit information with the predetermined test data pattern to determine whether a bit error is present in the dedicated FRAM cells and if so The method comprises the steps of reading out the complete FRAM storage unit in a recovery mode. All FRAM cells of the FRAM storage unit are refreshed by writing back the read out bit information. The read operation that is performed in the margin mode that uses a lower read out sensitivity compared to the read out operation of the complete FRAM storage unit that is performed in the recovery mode.

Same or similar advantages already mentioned for the semiconductor device according to the invention apply to the method according to the invention.

In another advantageous aspect of the invention the test data pattern comprises either only the most critical data state which is normally the Data 1 State or it comprises Data 0 and Data 1 states. At the time of programming the states constituting the test data pattern this bit cell information has a maximum polarization which means the FRAM cell creates the maximum bit cell signal during read out. Thermal degradation of the bit information in the FRAM cells is determined by reading out this test data pattern. Advantageously and if only weak data states are used there is a higher safety margin for the rest of the stored data in comparison to a test data pattern using a mixture of strong and weak data states i.e. high and low Data 1 and Data 0 states respectively.

For read out of an FRAM cell a sense amplifier is used to amplify the signal that is directly provided by the FRAM cells to a bit line in order to provide a signal having a sufficient strength and a sufficient signal to noise ratio to a data bus. Further details will be explained by making reference to .

When applying a reference voltage to the input channels of the sense amplifier a signal strength that is provided by the respective FRAM cells is lowered with increasing reference voltage. In other words a high the reference voltage implies a high bit cell signal in order to keep the Bit Error Rate still low. On the other hand if the signal from the FRAM cell is pretty weak a small reference voltage is sufficient to cause in a high bit rate error rate.

However if the read out of the FRAM storage unit in the margin mode fails it may be assumed that other FRAM cells apart from the FRAM cells carrying the test data pattern have been degraded too. Advantageously they are not degraded totally and a read out process without a sense voltage i.e. a read out in a recovery mode will still work. To recover as much as possible bit cell information from the FRAM cells the bit cell timing of the read signals e.g. the word line plate line and bit line sense amplifier is slowed down in the recovery mode. This slowdown means that the signal s speed is below the normal speed for usual operation of the FRAM storage unit. This allows a proper settling of the signals and improves the signal to noise ratio. Further an increased voltage level may be provided to the plate line in order to improve the read signals and to pump more charge from the ferro electric capacitor onto the bit lines. Since the FRAM memory data read out is destructive the data has to be written back to the FRAM storage unit which is preferably done under the aforementioned conditions in order to restore the full bit signal to the memory cell.

Although the invention has been described hereinabove with reference to a specific embodiment it is not limited to this embodiment and no doubt further alternatives will occur to the skilled person that lie within the scope of the invention as claimed.

