---

title: Device and method for contact information exchange
abstract: A method and device exchanging contact information on an electronic device. Contact information is obtained from a contact by scanning a barcode using an electronic device and decoding the barcode to recover the contact information encoded therein. The contact information may be used to reciprocate by sending user contact data in a message addressed to an electronic address obtained from the contact information. The user contact data may be encoded in a second barcode displayed on the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08353447&OS=08353447&RS=08353447
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08353447
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120314
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 169 089 filed Jun. 27 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 610 445 filed Nov. 2 2009 both of which are owned in common herewith. The contents of application Ser. No. 12 610 445 and Ser. No. 13 169 089 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application relates to contact information management and more particularly to devices and methods for the short range exchange of contact information.

Traditionally contact information has been exchanged between parties through the use of business cards. Business cards often include contact information such as for example street addresses telephone number s fax number e mail addresses and website addresses.

Traditional business cards suffer from numerous disadvantages. In particular traditional business cards may be lost and easily destroyed or damaged.

In one aspect the present application provides method of exchanging contact information using an electronic handheld device the electronic handheld device having a camera and a memory storing user contact data. The method includes obtaining with the camera an image of a barcode associated with a contact the barcode having contact information encoded therein decoding the barcode to obtain the contact information obtaining an electronic address associated with the contact from the contact information and automatically transmitting the user contact data to the electronic address obtained from the contact information.

In another aspect the present application provides an electronic device. The electronic device comprises a display a camera memory storing user contact data a processor and a code reader application executable by the processor. The code reader application includes instructions for configuring the camera to obtain an image of a barcode associated with a contact the barcode having contact information encoded therein and instructions to configure the processor to decode the barcode to obtain the contact information obtain an electronic address associated with the contact from the contact information and automatically transmit the user contact data to the electronic address obtained from the contact information.

In yet a further aspect the present application provides computer readable program product including a computer readable storage medium having encoded thereon computer executable instructions for exchanging contact information using an electronic handheld device the electronic handheld device having a camera and a memory storing user contact data. The computer executable instructions include instructions for obtaining with the camera an image of a barcode associated with a contact the barcode having contact information encoded therein instructions for decoding the barcode to obtain the contact information instructions for obtaining an electronic address associated with the contact from the contact information and instructions for automatically transmitting the user contact data to the electronic address obtained from the contact information.

In yet another aspect the present application provides method of mutually exchanging contact information between a first electronic handheld device and a second electronic handheld device each of the electronic handheld devices having a camera and a memory. The method includes displaying on the first electronic handheld device a first barcode encoding first contact information associated with the first electronic handheld device obtaining with the camera of the second electronic handheld device an image of the first barcode decoding the first barcode to obtain the first contact information displaying on the second electronic handheld device a second barcode encoding second contact information associated with the second electronic handheld device obtaining with the camera of the first electronic handheld device an image of the second barcode decoding the second barcode to obtain the second contact information and storing the first and second contact information within memory on the second and first electronic devices respectively.

In another aspect the present application describes a method of exchanging contact information using an electronic handheld device the electronic handheld device having a camera a display screen and a memory storing user contact data and authentication data. The method includes receiving an electronic address from a second handheld device sending the authentication data to the electronic address scanning a barcode displayed on the second handheld device to obtain second data and verifying that the second data matches the authentication data to authenticate the electronic address.

In a further aspect the present application describes an electronic handheld device that includes a display screen a camera memory storing user contact data and authentication data a processor and a code reader application executable by the processor and containing instructions which when executed by the processor configure the processor to receive an electronic address from a second handheld device send the authentication data to the electronic address scan a barcode displayed on the second handheld device to obtain second data and verify that the second data matches the authentication data to authenticate the electronic address.

In yet a further aspect the present application describes a tangible computer readable medium storing processor executable instructions that when executed configure one or more processors within an electronic handheld device to exchange contact information with a second handheld device the electronic handheld device having a camera a display screen and a memory storing user contact data and authentication data. The processor executable instructions include instructions for receiving an electronic address from the second handheld device instructions for sending the authentication data to the electronic address instructions for scanning a barcode displayed on the second handheld device to obtain second data and instructions for verifying that the second data matches the authentication data to authenticate the electronic address.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

In order to facilitate an understanding of one possible environment in which example embodiments described herein can operate reference is first made to which shows in block diagram form a communication system in which example embodiments of the present disclosure can be applied. The communication system comprises a number of mobile communication devices which may be connected to the remainder of the system in any of several different ways. Accordingly several instances of mobile communication devices are depicted in employing different example ways of connecting to system . Mobile communication devices are connected to a wireless network which may comprise one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In some embodiments the mobile communication devices are configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In some embodiments the wireless network may comprise multiple WWANs and WLANs .

The WWAN may be implemented as any suitable wireless access network technology. By way of example but not limitation the WWAN may be implemented as a wireless network that includes a number of transceiver base stations one of which is shown in where each of the base stations provides wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. The WWAN is typically operated by a mobile network service provider that provides subscription packages to users of the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments the WWAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized CDMA2000 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems HSPDA High Speed Downlink Packet Access IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or various other networks. Although WWAN is described as a Wide Area network that term is intended herein also to incorporate wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMAN and other similar technologies for providing coordinated service wirelessly over an area larger than that covered by typical WLANs.

The WWAN may further comprise a wireless network gateway which connects the mobile communication devices to transport facilities and through the transport facilities to a wireless connector system . Transport facilities may include one or more private networks or lines the public Internet a virtual private network or any other suitable network. The wireless connector system may be operated for example by an organization or enterprise such as a corporation university or governmental department which allows access to a network such as an internal or enterprise network and its resources or the wireless connector system may be operated by a mobile network provider. In some embodiments the network may be realized using the Internet rather than an internal or enterprise network.

The wireless network gateway provides an interface between the wireless connector system and the WWAN which facilitates communication between the mobile communication devices and other devices not shown connected directly or indirectly to the WWAN . Accordingly communications sent via the mobile communication devices are transported via the WWAN and the wireless network gateway through transport facilities to the wireless connector system . Communications sent from the wireless connector system are received by the wireless network gateway and transported via the WWAN to the mobile communication devices .

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN may be a personal network of the user an enterprise network or a hotspot offered by an Internet service provider ISP a mobile network provider or a property owner in a public or semi public area for example. The access points are connected to an access point AP interface which may connect to the wireless connector system directly for example if the access point is part of an enterprise WLAN in which the wireless connector system resides or indirectly via the transport facilities if the access point is a personal Wi Fi network or Wi Fi hotspot in which case a mechanism for securely connecting to the wireless connector system such as a virtual private network VPN may be used . The AP interface provides translation and routing services between the access points and the wireless connector system to facilitate communication directly or indirectly with the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system may be implemented as one or more servers and is typically located behind a firewall . The wireless connector system manages communications including email communications to and from a set of managed mobile communication devices . The wireless connector system also provides administrative control and management capabilities over users and mobile communication devices which may connect to the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system allows the mobile communication devices to access the network and connected resources and services such as a messaging server for example a Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino or Novell GroupWise email server and a content server for providing content such as Internet content or content from an organization s internal servers and application servers for implementing server based applications such as instant messaging IM applications to mobile communication devices .

The wireless connector system typically provides a secure exchange of data e.g. email messages personal information manager PIM data and IM data with the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments communications between the wireless connector system and the mobile communication devices are encrypted. In some embodiments communications are encrypted using a symmetric encryption key implemented using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES encryption. Private encryption keys are generated in a secure two way authenticated environment and are used for both encryption and decryption of data. In some embodiments the private encryption key is stored only in the user s mailbox on the messaging server and on the mobile communication device and can typically be regenerated by the user on mobile communication devices . Data sent to the mobile communication devices is encrypted by the wireless connector system using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox. The encrypted data when received on the mobile communication devices is decrypted using the private encryption key stored in memory. Similarly data sent to the wireless connector system from the mobile communication devices is encrypted using the private encryption key stored in the memory of the mobile communication device . The encrypted data when received on the wireless connector system is decrypted using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox.

The wireless network gateway is adapted to send data packets received from the mobile communication device over the WWAN to the wireless connector system . The wireless connector system then sends the data packets to the appropriate connection point such as the messaging server content server or application servers . Conversely the wireless connector system sends data packets received for example from the messaging server content server or application servers to the wireless network gateway which then transmit the data packets to the destination mobile communication device . The AP interfaces of the WLAN provide similar sending functions between the mobile communication device the wireless connector system and network connection point such as the messaging server content server and application server .

The network may comprise a private local area network metropolitan area network wide area network the public Internet or combinations thereof and may include virtual networks constructed using any of these alone or in combination.

A mobile communication device may alternatively connect to the wireless connector system using a computer such as desktop or notebook computer via the network . A link may be provided for exchanging information between the mobile communication device and computer connected to the wireless connector system . The link may comprise one or both of a physical interface and short range wireless communication interface. The physical interface may comprise one or combinations of an Ethernet connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection Firewire also known as an IEEE 1394 interface connection or other serial data connection via respective ports or interfaces of the mobile communication device and computer . The short range wireless communication interface may be a personal area network PAN interface. A personal area network is a wireless point to point connection meaning no physical cables are required to connect the two end points. The short range wireless communication interface may comprise one or a combination of an infrared IR connection such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA connection a short range radio frequency RF connection such as one specified by IEEE 802.15.1 or the Bluetooth special interest group or IEEE 802.15.3a also referred to as UltraWideband UWB or other PAN connection.

It will be appreciated that the above described communication system is provided for the purpose of illustration only and that the above described communication system comprises one possible communication network configuration of a multitude of possible configurations for use with the mobile communication devices . The teachings of the present disclosure may be employed in connection with other types of networks and associated devices that are effective in implementing or facilitating wireless communication. Suitable variations of the communication system will be understood to a person of skill in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a mobile communication device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The mobile communication device is a two way communication device having at least data and possibly also voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile communication device in various embodiments the device may be a data communication device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile communication device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device and a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network . The processor interacts with the communication subsystem which performs communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems. In some embodiments the device may include a touchscreen display which includes a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen with a touch sensitive input surface or overlay connected to an electronic controller . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller . In other embodiments the display may not be a touchscreen display. Instead the device may simply include a non touch display and one or more input mechanisms such as for example a depressible scroll wheel.

The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port such as a serial data port for example a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a speaker a microphone an input mechanism a switch a code reader discussed in detail below a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the mobile communication device is intended to operate.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after a network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and software applications . The software applications may include a contact information management application for managing contact information and a code reader application for detecting and decoding encoded information obtained via the code reader .

In the present embodiment the code reader is a digital camera which takes video or still photographs or both by recording images using an electronic image sensor. The electronic image sensor may be a charge coupled device CCD or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS active pixel sensor. In embodiments in which the code reader is a digital camera the code reader application may be a module in a camera application which is configured to obtain or capture digital images using the electronic image sensor. Light incident on the electronic image sensor is converted to image data by the code reader .

In other embodiments other types of code readers may be used. For example in some embodiments the code reader may include a light source and a sensor for measuring the intensity of the light reflected back from the light source. In other embodiments the code reader may be a charge coupled device CCD reader which measures ambient light from a barcode.

As will be described in greater detail below the code reader and code reader application are configured to obtain an image in which data is encoded and to decode the image to obtain the data. More specifically in the present example embodiments the image contains a barcode in which the data is encoded. In some example embodiments the barcode may be a Universal Product Code UPC such as a UPC A or UPC E code a European Article Number code such as EAN 8 or EAN 13 a Code 39 code a Code 128 code a Quick Response QR Code a Data Matrix or an Interleaved 2 of 5 ITF code. Those ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate the range of barcodes and barcode like images for encoding data that may be used in the context of the present application. Although the present application describes embodiments in which a barcode is used to encode contact information the application is not limited to barcodes and includes other non textual images in which data may be encoded. It will also be understood that the term barcode used herein is not limited to 1D linear barcodes but is intended to include other symbologies such as 2D barcodes color codes etc.

The code reader under control of the code reader application obtains the image containing the encoded information. In one embodiment the code reader captures the image and stores it in memory for example as a JPEG image or in another format. The code reader application is configured to analyze the stored image to detect a barcode within the image if any and decode the detected barcode.

In another embodiment the code reader does not capture an image and later analyze the image but rather it operates in a viewfinder mode in which the incident light received by the CCD is converted to image data and displayed on the display in near real time and the code reader application analyzes the image data as the user manipulates the device to bring the barcode within the field of view of the code reader . Once the code reader application detects i.e. recognizes that a barcode is present in the field of view then it causes the code reader to obtain the image and the code reader application decodes the barcode within the image. This may be referred to as a barcode scanning mode of operation for the code reader .

Those ordinarily skilled in the art will understand the processes for recognizing detecting a barcode. Most barcodes are associated with a standard or other specification that details how the barcode is to be detected by a reader. For example a 1D linear barcode typically includes start and stop markers. A 2D barcode such as Data Matrix includes a finder pattern . In Data Matrix the finder pattern is the border pattern of black and white L s. In a QR code the finder pattern includes position symbols at three of the corners and an alignment symbol. The code reader application may be configured to recognize one or more types of barcode based on their respective standards specifications.

In accordance with an aspect of the present application the barcode encodes business contact information such as the information typically found on a personal business card. In one example embodiment the barcode may be printed on a paper business card for example on the back of the card. In another example embodiment as will be described further below the barcode may be displayed on the display screen of a mobile device and may encode the personal business contact information of the mobile device user. The code reader in a receiving mobile device may be used to obtain the barcode from the display screen of the other mobile device. The code reader application decodes the barcode to obtain the business contact information encoded therein.

The contact information encoded within the barcode may include the personal details of the business contact from whom the barcode was obtained. For example it may include the contact s name phone number title associated company email address mailing address or other details. In some examples it may include a logo such as a company logo or a photograph of the contact although it will be appreciated that many barcodes lack sufficient capacity to encode photographs or images such as logos. In some example embodiments the contact information encoded within the barcode may include a URL or other remote address. The URL or other address may be in addition to or as an alternative to business contact details. The code reader application is configured to download additional information from a remote server accessed via the URL or other remote address. The additional information may include additional contact details or data such as a photograph or layout stylesheet data.

It will be appreciated from the foregoing description that the code reader and code reader application permit a mobile device user to easily obtain contact information for a business contact. The contact information is obtained through a short range exchange which permits visual identification and verification of the person from whom the contact information is obtained. Additionally the contact information is received in an electronic form which avoids the necessity of inputting information from a printed business card to the mobile communications device . The mobile communications device may be configured to perform a number of other functions once it has obtained the contact information as briefly outlined below.

In some embodiments the code reader application may provide the contact information to the contact information management application and the contact information may be added to contact information stored in the memory of the device .

In some embodiments the code reader application may be configured to display the contact information on the display of the device . In some cases the code reader application may be configured to display the contact information in a predetermined format for example in a format that appears similar to a business card layout. In yet other cases the information encoded within the barcode may include format or layout data that specifies the manner in which the contact information is to be displayed. In yet further cases the layout data may be obtained from a URL or remote address specified in the contact information for example in the form of a stylesheet.

In some embodiments the contact information management application or the code reader application may be configured to transmit at least some portion of a user s contact data to an address specified in the contact information.

In some embodiments the mobile device may be configured to encode at least some portion of the user s contact data and to display the encoded user s contact data as a barcode on the display of the mobile device . In other words after obtaining the contact information from the business contact the user reciprocates by displaying his or her own barcode encoding his or her own contact information. The business contact may then obtain the user s contact data by obtaining and decoding the barcode displayed on the user s mobile communications device . It will be appreciated that the mobile device may permit the user to display his or her barcoded contact information prior to receiving any contact information from the business contact so as to enable the user to initiate the exchange of contact information.

The mobile device may include a code generator module for creating a barcode encoding at least some user contact data . For example the code generator module may be configured to generate a barcode such as a Quick Response QR code based on at least some of the user contact data for the user. In some embodiments the barcode may also have other data encoded therein such as for example communication preferences for the user. The communication preferences may specify one or more preferred methods of communication for the user and may contain a flag specifying whether the user prefers to automatically receive a contact s contact information after that contact has obtained and decoded the user s two dimensional bar code. In at least some embodiments the code generator module may be configured to display the two dimensional bar code on the display in order to permit another device to read the two dimensional bar code and extract the information contained therein.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications may include a range of other applications including for example a messaging application a calendar application and or a notepad application. In some embodiments the software applications include an email message application a push content viewing application a voice communication i.e. telephony application a map application and a media player application. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display device according to the application.

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile communication device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory card typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile communication device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile communication device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

In some embodiments the data includes contact information associated with a plurality of contacts. Contacts may include individuals and or businesses such as persons or businesses associated with one or more of the mobile device s users. By way of example and not limitation the contact information may include a name of a person or business one or more telephone numbers associated with the person or business such as for example a business telephone number a home telephone number a mobile telephone number and or a fax telephone number. The contact information may also include the contact s job title company extension number nickname email address mailing address web page address instant messaging address a name of a spouse or significant other and or a Personal Identification Number PIN associated with an electronic device associated with the contact which may be used to send an electronic message to that contact. It will be appreciated that the contact information associated with each contact may contain more or less information than the information listed above. In some cases each type of contact information specified above may contain multiple entries. For example a contact may have more than one email address. The contact information may also include a company logo or a photograph of the individual or both.

The data may also include user contact data associated with a user of the mobile device or associated with a business related to the mobile device or its user. The user contact data may include the same types of information that may be included in the contact information associated with contacts. That is it may include one or more of the following a name of the user of the mobile device the name of a business associated with the mobile device or its user one or more telephone numbers associated with the user of the mobile device or a business associated with the mobile device or its user such as for example a business telephone number a home telephone number a mobile telephone number and or a fax telephone number the user s job title extension number nickname one or more email addresses associated with the user or company one or more mailing addresses associated with the user or the company web page address instant messaging address a name of a spouse or significant other and or a PIN associated with the mobile device associated with the user which may be used to send an electronic message to that user. It will be appreciated that the user contact data may contain more or less contact information than that listed above.

The PIN may be a unique identifier assigned to the mobile communication device during manufacturing of that device . The PIN may in some embodiments act as an address for communicating with the mobile device . That is messages sent to a PIN will be received at the device associated with that PIN. The PIN may be saved in non volatile memory so that the device will retain the PIN even when it is powered off.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem other wireless communication interfaces. The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile communication device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email message application and output to the display . A user of the mobile communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the touch sensitive overlay in conjunction with the display device and possibly the control buttons and or the auxiliary I O subsystems . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile communication device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display device may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to example mobile communication devices in which embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied are illustrated. In these example embodiments the mobile communication device is a handheld mobile electronic device having two way communication capabilities such as for example data communication capabilities voice communication capabilities or the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet.

In the example embodiments the mobile device includes a hard plastic main body case that is configured to be held with one or two hands while the device is in use. The main body case may be a single piece or may include two or more portions coupled together. For example in one embodiment the device is a flip phone and the main body case includes two portions hinged together such that the two portions may be brought into closed contact with one another when the device is not in use. The various components of the device need not be located in the same portion of the main body case .

The case may include a hook not shown so that it can be secured to a user s belt or pant s top or it may be used in conjunction with a soft case not shown that can be mounted to the user s belt or pant s top and into which the mobile device can be inserted for carrying. The mobile device is at least in some embodiments small enough to fit inside a standard purse or suit jacket pocket.

The mobile device also includes one or more input mechanisms . The input mechanisms may take a variety of forms. For example in some embodiments the input mechanisms may comprise any combination of a keyboard control buttons and a navigation device such as a rotatable and depressible clickable thumbwheel or scroll wheel or a depressible clickable rolling member or trackball. In some embodiments the input mechanisms are positioned towards a bottom end of the mobile device for actuation by the thumbs or other fingers of the device user while it is being held in one or two hands depending on the embodiment. In other embodiments the input mechanisms may be located elsewhere for example control buttons may be located on a top end or any side of the device and a scroll wheel may be located on a side of the device for convenient thumb scrolling by the hand in which the device is held. In the illustrated embodiment of the input mechanism has relatively few keys however in some embodiments such as that shown in the input mechanism includes a keyboard having twenty six 26 or more alphanumeric and control keys. In some embodiments a touch screen display acts as an input mechanism for the device .

In some embodiments the input mechanisms of the mobile device may include a code reader activator button for activating the code reader . The code reader activator button need not be located on the front of the device it could be in other locations such as on the back of the device as shown in in phantom .

In some embodiments the code reader activator button is a dedicated button which is assigned the function of activating the code reader . In other embodiments the mobile device may provide a graphical user interface GUI on the display screen for controlling the operation of the device . The GUI together with the input mechanisms may permit a user to activate the code reader and code reader application . As with typical GUIs the device user may cause a menu to be displayed on the display screen having a number of menu item items which can be selected. One of those items may be an scan barcode or similar item which when selected causes the code reader to enter a barcode scanning mode as described above. In the barcode scanning mode the code reader application analyzes the image obtained through the electronic image sensor of the code reader in an attempt to recognize detect a barcode. If a barcode is detected for example by identifying detecting the border indicia of a Data Matrix code or by identifying detecting the position symbols of a QR code the code reader application decodes the barcode and obtains the contact information encoded therein.

In some embodiments such as the embodiment of the code reader is a digital camera . In the embodiment of the case includes a substantially planar back wall which has an opening provided therethrough. A transparent lens covers the opening behind which the camera is located. As is known in the art the digital camera includes one or more electronic image sensors for capturing an image or video

In various embodiments the camera may be located in various locations on the device . Similarly the handheld device may have configurations different than the configuration in the example embodiment described above. For example the camera may be located facing outward from the front of the device . By way of non limiting example shows a front view of a handheld device according to one embodiment of the invention. The device of is similar to the device of however the input mechanisms of the device of include a thumb activated QWERTY keyboard next to which the camera is located and the main body or case of the device includes first and second portions that are pivotally mounted together. Second case portion houses the display and the first case portion houses the keyboard which is configured for thumb typing. In the hand held device of the camera is provided through opening on the front of the first case portion . The camera faces the same direction as the keyboard for capturing images of the user while operating the device.

In some embodiments the camera is pivotally mounted to the case of the handheld device such that it can be rotated to face in a direction desired by the user. By way of example a pivotally mounted camera unit is shown in phantom in . The camera unit may be detachable from the case .

Reference is now made to which shows the mobile communications device displaying an example barcode on the display . The barcode in this example is a QR code. The example QR code shown in encodes the text Research In Motion Limited .

Reference is now made to which shows in diagrammatic form an exchange of contact information between mobile devices. The exchange involves a first mobile device and a second mobile device . The first mobile device is associated with a first user and the second mobile device is associated with a second user. The first user and second user when in close proximity to each other agree to exchange contact information. Accordingly the first user causes the first mobile device to display a barcode .

The barcode is generated by a barcode generating module operating on the first user device . In response to selection of an icon or menu item by the first user the barcode generating module retrieves contact information for the first user from memory on the first mobile device and encodes at least some of the contact information within the barcode . It then displays the barcode as shown in .

The second user selects an icon or menu item on the second mobile device to cause the second mobile device and in particular the code reader and code reader application on the second mobile device to enter the barcode scanning mode. The second mobile device may enter the barcode scanning mode by for example an explicit command from the user to enter barcode scanning mode. The second mobile device may also enter the barcode scanning mode by activating the viewfinder mode and automatically recognizing a barcode present in the field of view. While in the barcode scanning mode the second mobile device displays the image received by the electronic image sensor of the code reader e.g. camera on the display in similar manner to the viewfinder mode of a camera application. The second user may then visually verify based on the image seen on the display whether the barcode on the first mobile device is clearly visible in the field of view of the code reader . The code reader application analyzes the images received by the code reader and when it recognizes the barcode within the received image it obtains an image of the barcode from the code reader and decodes it to obtain the first user s contact information.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates a process for obtaining and transmitting contact information in accordance with one embodiment of the present application. The process may be performed by a mobile device and more specifically by the controller and or code reader application associated with the mobile device .

In the description which follows the term the user refers to the user of a mobile device having the code reader application installed thereon and the term the contact refers to an individual associated with the contact information which is included in a barcode.

The process is initiated by the contact displaying a barcode to the user. The contact may display the barcode on his or her own mobile device or the barcode may be in printed form perhaps on a business card. The barcode encodes contact information for the contact.

Due to the short range nature of barcode scanning the user is able to visually verify the person from whom they are receiving contact information. In this way the contact information exchange system provides for a similar level of contact authentication as with the traditional exchange of conventional paper business cards.

The user inputs a request to his or her mobile device instructing the device to scan for a barcode. As noted in at step the device receives a scan barcode command. As indicated previously the scan barcode command may be received via a menu selection a dedicated code reader activator button a preset key combination or other input mechanism. The command may represent an explicit request from the user to scan for a barcode or the command may be a request that the device enter a viewfinder mode and the device may automatically scan for barcodes whilst in this mode.

At step in response to receiving a request to obtain the code the mobile device and in particular the code reader application analyzes the image data obtained by the code reader in an attempt to detect a barcode. As described above the analysis may be conducted with the code reader in barcode scanning mode in which the code reader continually scans its field of view and the code reader application analyzes the image data received through the electronic image sensor of the code reader . In some embodiments it may be conducted after the code reader has been manually actuated by the user to capture an image and the analysis is applied to the captured image. Irrespective of how the analysis is performed and at what point the analysis is performed the code reader application detects a barcode within the image data in step .

Next at step having detected the barcode within the image data the mobile device decodes the barcode to obtain the contact information stored therein. The decoding process extracts information encoded in the barcode such as for example contact information. The decoding process may include performing error checking and correction for example using Reed Solomon error correction.

At step the mobile device determines whether the decoded information includes contact information. In some cases the device may be used to scan barcodes for other purposes. For example barcodes printed in an advertisement or newspaper may be used to link to a website or other remote location. Many other uses are possible. In step the mobile device determines whether the decoded information is contact information for example whether it contains business card information. There are many possible mechanisms for determining whether the information encoded in the barcode is contact information. For example a designated flag or other indicator may be specified to indicate that the information is contact information. In another embodiment the device may parse the decoded information and look for indicator of contact information such as a name telephone number and email address or other contact specific fields. In yet another embodiment the contact information decoded from the barcode may contain a URL that points the device to a remote location and the URL and or the remote location may indicate that the data obtained from the remote location is contact information in accordance with the present application. Other possibilities will be apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

If the information obtained from decoding the barcode is not contact information then step may lead to an alternative process.

If the decoded information is contact information then in step the device determines whether the contact information includes a URL or other remote address from which the device can obtain further contact information. If so then in step it obtains further contact information e.g. remote data from the URL or other remote address. It will be understood that in some embodiments the determination in step may occur after steps or if the data from the remote location is necessary to determine whether the barcode relates to contact information.

In some embodiments the device may then perform step wherein the contact information obtained from the barcode or the URL remote address or both are displayed on the screen of the device . Step may include formatting the contact information in accordance with a predefined contact information layout scheme. In some cases a stylesheet or other layout information may be encoded in the barcode or obtained from the URL remote address. In at least one embodiment the stylesheet or layout scheme is configured to cause the device to display the contact information in a manner that mimics the style and layout of a printed business card.

In some embodiments the device may also or alternative perform step wherein contact information obtained from the barcode or the URL remote address or both is saved on the device for example as contact information stored in memory on the device . The device and in particular the contact application or code reader application may be configured to confirm the contact information is new i.e. not already present in the contact information in memory generate a new contact entry populate the fields of the new contact entry with the contact information and save the populated new contact entry in memory as contact information . In some embodiments the mobile device may categorize portions of the contact information by parsing the contact information for predefined keywords such as for example address or email or phone . Alternatively in some embodiments the information contained in the barcode may be formatted according to a predefined format for storing contact information. The user may be prompted to provide confirmation that the new entry is to be saved and may be given an opportunity to edit the populated new contact entry before it is saved.

Reference will now be made to and which shows further example steps in the process after the contact information has been obtained i.e. after steps or . Example devices may include a code reader application or other program modules that implement one or more of the example steps of the process . In one example a device may provide the user with the option of selecting one or more of the examples of the process in a particular instance.

Referring first to a portion of the process is illustrated in which the user and the contact mutually exchange contact details using barcodes. In step the device determines whether to exchange contact data with the individual from whom the contact information was obtained. In other words the device determines whether it will reciprocate by providing the contact with the contact data associated with the user of the device . This determination may be based on a preset option set by the user. For example the device may be configured to automatically reciprocate and provide a contact with the user s contact data. In this context automatically means that the device carries out the steps without further command or instruction from the user of the device . In another embodiment the determination may be based on input received from the user of the device in response to a prompt. For example the device may query via the GUI display whether the user wishes to exchange contact information. The user may be given the option of accepting an exchange or rejecting it. In yet another embodiment the determination may be based on the contact information received from the barcode. The contact information may contain a preference that indicates whether the contact wishes to automatically receive reciprocal contact data from the user of the device .

If an exchange is to occur then in step the device retrieves the user s contact data for example from memory. In step it encodes the user s contact data in a barcode. The barcode may be a 1D or 2D barcode such as a QR code or a Data Matrix code. The term barcode is understood in this context to include any image encoding the user contact data . The barcode is then displayed on the display screen of the device in step . Once the barcode is displayed on the device then user may present the display screen of the device to the contact who may then use his or her own mobile device to scan and decode the displayed barcode thereby obtaining the user s contact data .

It will be understood that in some embodiments the user s contact data may be located remotely accessible via a URL or remote address and that steps and include retrieving the URL or remote address and encoding the URL or remote address as the barcode.

It will also be understood that in some embodiments steps and may be pre performed that is performed prior to receiving any contact information in the process and the encoded user contact data may be stored as a barcode in memory on the device . In this embodiment step includes retrieving the stored barcode from memory.

Referring now to an alternative portion of the process is illustrated in which the user and the contact mutually exchange contact details but the user sends his or her contact data in a message. In step the device determines whether to exchange contact data with the individual from whom the contact information was obtained. In other words the device determines whether it will reciprocate by providing the contact with the contact data associated with the user of the device . This determination may be based on a preset option set by the user. For example the device may be configured to automatically reciprocate and provide a contact with the user s contact data. As noted above automatically means that the device carries out the steps without further command or instruction from the user of the device . In another embodiment the determination may be based on input received from the user of the device in response to a prompt. For example the device may query via the GUI display whether the user wishes to exchange contact information. The user may be given the option of accepting and exchange or rejecting it. In yet another embodiment the determination may be based on the contact information received from the barcode. The contact information may contain a preference that indicates whether the contact wishes to automatically receive reciprocal contact data from the user of the device .

If an exchange is to occur then in step the device retrieves the user s contact data for example from memory. In step the device generates a message containing the user s contact data . The message may in some embodiments be an email message. The message may in some embodiments be an SMS MMS IM or other data message. The message may be configured to be sent over a WWAN WLAN or other type of network in some embodiments. In some embodiments the message may be configured to be sent directly from the mobile device to the contact s mobile device for example by a short range connection such as a Bluetooth connection. The form and type of the message may be based on a preference specified by the contact information obtained from the contact. It will be appreciated that the message may attach the contact information in the sense that it may be sent as an attachment to for example an email message. The attachment may be a file or other item such as a vCard. In this context it will be understood that a message containing the user s contact data includes placing the contact data in the body of the message or attaching it as a separate file or item to the message.

The contact information obtained from the contact includes at least one electronic address associated with the contact. For example it may contain a telephone number an email address a SIP URI or any other destination identifier associated with the individual. As described above in some embodiments the contact information that the mobile device obtains from decoding the barcode includes a URL or other remote address from which addition contact information is obtained. The additional contact information obtained from the URL or other remote address may provide the at least one electronic address associated with the contact. The at least one electronic address may be understood to have been obtained from the contact information even if it was obtained indirectly by accessing a URL specified in the contact information.

The message generated in step is addressed to the at least one electronic address . In step it is sent to the at least one electronic address. As noted above the transmission of the message may be over various types of networks using various transmission protocols depending on the specific embodiment. In will be appreciated that the electronic address in this respect is understood to be a destination address associated with the contact to which the device can transmit an electronic message.

In this manner the device reciprocates by sending the user s contact data to the contact by way of a message transmitted by the mobile device to an electronic address obtained from the contact information. In some embodiments the electronic address is associated with a mobile handheld device in possession of the contact thereby allowing the contact to verify receipt of the reciprocal contact data however the electronic address is not necessarily associated with such a device.

Reference will now be made to which shows an example portion of the process used for the purpose of authenticating the individual contact and the address of his or her device. This authentication process generally indicated begins after receipt of the contact information and starts with determining whether authentication is to be performed step . This determination may be based on a flag or other indicator preset by the user or an administrator. The determination may be based on user response to a query as to whether the user desires authentication of the contact individual s device.

The contact information obtained from the individual contact includes an electronic address for the individual contact s mobile device. As noted above this electronic address may be obtained from the contact information indirectly if the contact information provides a URL from which the device receives the electronic address.

The device has stored thereon in volatile or non volatile memory authentication data. The authentication data may be pre established at device manufacture at provisioning of the device or at any point thereafter or may be generated as unique data for each authentication. The authentication data is unique data such as for example a numeric alphanumeric or binary string that the device may use to authenticate the contact s mobile device using this process .

In step the device generates a message containing the authentication data. As described in connection with the message may be an email message SMS MMS IM or other data message. The message is addressed to the electronic address obtained from the contact information. It will be appreciated that if the electronic address is an email address then the message may be an email message. If the electronic address is a telephone number then the message may be an SMS or MMS.

In step the message is sent to the electronic address. At the contact s mobile device presuming the electronic address is correctly associated with the mobile device the message is received and the contact s mobile device is configured to extract the authentication data. Moreover the contact s mobile device is configured to generate a new barcode wherein the new barcode encodes the authentication data. The contact s mobile device then displays the new barcode.

In step the user positions his or her mobile device to scan the displayed new barcode on the contact s mobile device. In step the mobile device decodes the scanned new barcode and in step the mobile device determines whether it has recovered the authentication data from the new barcode. In particular it compares the original authentication data stored on the mobile device which was used to generate the message in step with the data decoded from the new barcode. If the data decoded from the new barcode matches the authentication data then the contact s mobile device and its electronic address may be considered approved and or authenticated. Any number of steps or operations may be taken as a result of the authentication including saving the contact details or reciprocating by sending the user s contact data as shown in or . If the data decoded from the new barcode does not match the authentication data then the authentication has failed and the mobile device may alert the user of the failure.

While the processes have been described as steps occurring in a particular sequence it will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that some of the steps may be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the steps described above may be combined in other embodiments and some of the steps described above may be separated into a number of sub steps in other embodiments.

While the present disclosure is described at least in part in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to the various components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover the present disclosure is also directed to a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon for performing the methods described herein. For example the present disclosure is also directed at a computer readable medium having encoded thereon instructions for executing any one or a combination of the processes of or .

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

