---

title: Presenting investment-related information on a mobile communication device
abstract: Methods, systems, computer programs are described that provide for presenting investment-related information in conjunction with display of a live video stream that includes the related publicly traded or privately held business entity or an object associated with the business entity. Business entities or the objects associated with the business entities that are proximate to a mobile communication device may be identified via object recognition techniques, product codes, wireless communication, location determination or the like. Once the business entities or objects have been identified, the related investment information is retrieved and indicators are displayed in the live video stream proximate to the display of the business entity or an object associated with the business entity. The user can activate the indicator to receive further investment-related information or be connected to an online investment broker for the purpose of purchase stock or some other form of investment instrument associated with the business entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688559&OS=08688559&RS=08688559
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08688559
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 478 405 filed Apr. 22 2011 entitled Presenting Investment Related Information on a Mobile Communication Device the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to commerce and more specifically presenting a display of investment related information on a mobile communication device in conjunction with a video stream or image.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have addition features that are becoming increasing more common and standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

Therefore a need exists to further the capabilities of mobile communication devices to provide mobile device user s with greater access to information

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later. 

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for presenting investment related information in conjunction with a video stream or image that includes investment related business entity or an object associated with the investment related entity. Investment related business entities or an objects associated with the investment related entity e.g. logos products or the like may be identified that are proximate to a mobile communication device via object recognition techniques product codes wireless communication location determination or the like. Once investment related business entities or an objects associated with the investment related entity have been identified investment related information may be retrieved and investment related information indicators are displayed in the video stream or image proximate to the display of the investment related business entity or an object associated with the investment related entity. The user can configure the application such that only investment related information associated with user specified businesses or business types is presented. In addition the user may specify other criteria for presenting investment related information such as investment performance friend family expert investment in a business entity or the like. The investment related information may include current investment performance historical investment performance links to online purchasing of the investment or the like.

A method for providing investment related information defines first embodiments of the invention. The method includes identifying one of a business entity or an object associated with the business entity. The business entity or object is proximate in location to a mobile communication device. Additionally the method includes retrieving investment related information associated with the identified business entity and presenting within a display of a video stream on the mobile communication device an investment related information indicator. The indicator provides access to the investment related information and is presented proximate in location to display of either the business entity or the object associated with the business entity.

In specific embodiments of the method identifying further includes capturing by the mobile communication device images of the business entity or the object associated with the business entity. In such embodiments of the method capturing images may further include implementing object recognition processing to identify one or more images as corresponding to the business entity or the object. In other such embodiments of the method capturing images further includes capturing a code located on or proximate to the business entity or the object and reading the code to identify the business entity.

In still further specific embodiments of the method identifying further includes receiving at the mobile communication device business entity identifying wireless communication from the business entity the object or a tag associated with the business entity or object. In other specific embodiments of the method identifying further includes determining a location of the mobile communication device and determining the business entity based on the determined location.

Moreover in other specific embodiments of the method the investment related information includes a real time stock price quote for the business entity. In further related embodiments of the method the investment related information includes one or more of government filing data investor presentations competitor performance comparison data stock trend data stock trade history data or news related data. In additional related embodiments of the method the investment related information includes a selectable link to a network entity configured to provide a user an ability to purchase stock in the business entity.

In other specific embodiments of the method the investment related information is further defined as user configurable investment related information such that the user may preconfigure the application to retrieve and present investment related information specifically desired by the user. In still other related embodiments of the method the investment related information includes identification of one or more individuals associated with a user of the mobile communication device that invests in the business entity such as friends family members or the like.

In additional related embodiments the method includes communicating a user alert that is configured to notify a user of the mobile communication device of the investment related information. IN such embodiments of the method the user alert may be user configured based on one or more of business entity type business entity performance or identity of business entity investors

An apparatus for providing investment related information provides for second embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. Additionally the apparatus includes a business entity identification application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to identify business entities and objects associated with the business entities. The business entities or the objects are proximate in location to a mobile communication device. Further the apparatus includes an investment related information retrieval application stored in the memory executable by the first processor and configured to retrieve investment related information associated with the identified business entities. Moreover the apparatus includes an investment related information presentation application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to present within a display of a video stream on the mobile communication device at least one investment related information indicator wherein the indicator provides access to the investment related information and is presented proximate in location to display of either one of the business entities or one of the objects associated with a business entity.

A computer program product defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium the medium includes computer executable instructions that cause a computer to implement steps. The steps include identifying one of a business entity or an object associated with the business entity. The business entity or object is proximate in location to a mobile communication device. The steps further include retrieving investment related information associated with the identified business entity. Additionally the steps include presenting within a display of a video stream on the mobile communication device an investment related information indicator wherein the indicator provides access to the investment related information and is presented proximate in location to display of either the business entity or the object associated with the business entity.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for presenting investment related information on mobile communication devices and specifically presenting investment related information in conjunction with the display of a video stream or image. Specific embodiments of the invention rely on presenting investment related information in an augmented reality environment or more generally referred to as mediated reality in which indicators of the investment related information are displayed in association with the business entity or an object associated with the business entity in the video stream or image.

One such example of an AR application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands. The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or data stores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more data stores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access data stores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or data store local to the mobile device and or server as well as a data store remote from the mobile device and or server

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or application functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server. In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a integrated circuit a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application an augmented reality AR presentation application described infra. in relation to a web browser application a Short Message Service SMS application an electronic mail i.e. email application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an object recognition experience in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture a video stream that includes an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing a video stream of the surrounding environment . The video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with an image capture device capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to an object recognition application that is either executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the object recognition application to identify specific objects . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object. For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby e.g. a tag or placard near the object . In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the object recognition data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social media posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots including a large gathering of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize facial recognition markers to identify a person and utilize a separate marker to confirm the identification to the desired confidence level that the person is the identified person.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechanism to determine the location of the user and or object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the AR presentation application is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . The indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable i.e. include an embedded link such that the user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator .

In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the indicator by any conventional means e.g. keystroke touch voice command or the like for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the indicator is not be interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object e.g. just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernible behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent or an outline of the object such that the object remains discernible behind or enclosed by the indicator . In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the object recognition and AR presentation experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the indicator . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and an indicator associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one objects in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentation application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed indicators . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

Referring to an apparatus configured for presenting investment related information in conjunction with display of the associated business entity or an object associated with the business entity in a live video stream on a mobile communication device in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. Additionally apparatus includes image capture device and display both in communication with processor .

It should be noted that the apparatus may include more than one computing device. For example apparatus may include a mobile communication device and a network device which operate in unison to present investment related information in conjunction with display of the associated business entity or an object associated with the business entity in a live video stream on a mobile communication device. Thus the application shown and described in apparatus may reside and be executed on a mobile communication device or a network device that is in wireless communication with the mobile communication device. A mobile communication device may be a mobile cellular telephone such as a smart phone or the like a Personal Data Assistant PDA a tablet computing device a laptop device or any other computing device having an image capture device and a display . It should be noted that while many embodiments of the mobile communication device are personal and or handheld devices in other embodiments of the invention a mobile communication device may be permanently or temporarily located within a moving vehicle such as an automobile or the like.

The memory of apparatus may include image capture application that is in communication with image capture device and configured to capture a video stream . It should be noted that the video stream may be captured from various different environments. For example the video stream may be captured while shopping in a retail location walking in a mall on a city street etc. In addition the video stream may be captured from a mobile communication device affixed permanently or temporarily to a moving vehicle such as an automobile navigating a commercially heavy area such as a downtown area or the like. In other embodiments the video stream may be captured while watching media such as television Internet or the like reading media such as via the Internet a billboard advertisement magazine newspaper or the like.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an API.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes business entity identification application that is configured to identify business entities both publically traded or privately held such as corporations or the like that are within the proximate vicinity of the mobile communication device. In specific embodiments of the invention the business entity identification application identifies business entities based at least in part on the images captured in the video stream . In such embodiments the business entity identification application may implement any known or future known visual type identification mechanisms. For example business entity identification application may implement object recognition techniques based on characteristics indicia e.g. Optical Character Recognition OCR or the like logos shapes and the like associated with the business entity brand mascots spokesperson associated with the business television commercial personalities associated with the business cartoon characters products manufactured by the business entity and or the like. In addition in those embodiments in which the images are of products manufactured distributed by the business entity the products or tags displayed in conjunction with the products may include a visually readable code such as Quick Response QR code barcode or the like. In such embodiments the business entity identification application may be implemented to decipher the code to identify the business entity associated with the product.

In other embodiments of the invention the business entity identification application may identify the one or more business entities based at least in part on the geographic location of the business entities. For example a mobile communication device may be equipped with location determining mechanisms such as Global Positioning System GPS devices and modules which determine the location of the device and the location of business entities based on known geographic positional locations addresses.

In other related embodiments business entity identification logic may be configured to sense and receive short range communicated data such as via Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID or the like from products manufactured distributed by a business entity or other objects associated with the business entity. The information communicated from attached embedded or proximate short range communication mechanisms may include information that identifies the business entity or is associated with identifying the business entity.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes investment related information retrieval application configured to retrieve investment related information associated with the identified investment business entities . Thus investment related information retrieval application may be in communication with investment related information retrieval database which stores or otherwise provides investment related information for the identified business entities . In one specific embodiment of the invention the investment related information retrieval database provides access to real time or near real stock quotes for publicly traded business entities such that the investment related information retrieval application is configured to retrieve a current stock quote. In other embodiments of the invention information retrieval database provides access to network locations for example hyperlinks or the like for providing the mobile communication device user access to network based investment related information such as websites or the like.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes investment related information presentation application that is configured to present one or more investment information indicators on a display of mobile communication device each investment information indicator presented in a live video stream proximate a location of the business entity or a product object associated with the business entity .

In one embodiment of the invention the investment related information indicator may be a graphical tag highlighted area or an outline around the border of the business entity or a product object associated with the business entity as displayed in the live video stream . In specific embodiments of the invention the indicator may display at least a portion of the investment related information such as stock market ticket designator for the business entity and or the current stock quote stock price trajectory or the like.

In other specific embodiments of the invention the user of the mobile communication device may activate the investment related information indicator through touch mouse pointer click keypad voice command or the like to display the investment related information or provide additional investment related information. In specific embodiments of the invention activating the investment related information indicator may provide for accessing a network website for purchasing or otherwise trading in the stock of the business entity and or providing a current view of the user s investment portfolio along side the purchasing or trading of stock.

In specific embodiments of the invention the user of the mobile communication may be actively looking for investment related information by positioning the image capture device in front of business entities or products associated with business entities products so as to capture the video stream subsequently identify the business entity or entities retrieve investment information associated with the business entities and present the investment related information indicators in the live video stream that the user is viewing. For example the user positions the mobile device to scan a store aisle or the store fronts signage in a shopping mall.

In other specific embodiments of the invention the user may be passively looking for investment related information such as when the apparatus has been configured to search for user specified investment related information or the like. In such a passive mode the mobile communication device may be in a continuously on mode and or an intermittent on mode based on a predetermined schedule or device activity. In the passive mode presentation of investment related information may require that the user be prompted to notify the user of the investment related information. The prompt may include communicating an alert to the user such as an audio alert communicated from the mobile communication device e.g. an audible alarm or the like and or a visual alert e.g. display of a flashing light on the mobile communication device or the like.

Processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other integrated circuit set processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs or modules such as business entity identification application investment related information retrieval application and investment related information presentation application stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor may include various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed embodiments processing subsystems of apparatus may include any subsystem used in conjunction with applications modules components and routines described herein.

As previously discussed the memory of apparatus may include image capture application that is in communication with image capture device and configured to capture a video stream and or images.

Additionally memory includes business entity identification application that is configured to identify one or more investment business entities or objects associated with an investment business entity that are proximate in location to the mobile communication device. In specific embodiments of the apparatus the business entity identification application is configured to identify the business entities based on information in the video stream . For example business entity identification application may implement object or image recognition techniques based on characteristics indicia e.g. Optical Character Recognition OCR or the like logos shapes and the like associated with an image of business entity a business entity logo a product associated e.g. manufactured with a business entity or the like. In addition in those embodiments in which the products associated with a business entity or tags displayed in conjunction with the products associated with the business entity include a visually readable code such as Quick Response QR code bar code or the like the business entity identification application may be implemented to decipher the code to identify the product.

In other embodiments of the invention the business entity identification application may identify the one or more business entities based at least in part on the geographic location of the business entities. For example a mobile communication device may be equipped with location determining mechanisms such as Global Positioning System GPS devices and modules which determines the location of the device and the location of business entities based known geographic positional locations addresses.

In specific related embodiments business entity identification application may be configured to sense and receive short range communicated data such as via Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID or the like from products associated with a business entity or other objects associated with a business entity. The information communicated from attached embedded or proximate short range communication mechanisms may include information that identifies the business entity or is associated with identifying the business entity.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes investment related information retrieval application configured to retrieve investment related information for the identified business entities . Thus investment related information retrieval application is in communication with investment related database which provides access to investment related information associated with the identified business entities .

In specific embodiments of the invention the investment related information retrieval application may be configured to limit the retrieval of investment related information based on one or more user defined filters . The user defined filters may be implemented to limit the business entities and or the investment related information presented on the mobile communication device to only those business entities and or information that the user desires to be informed on. From a business entity perspective the user defined filters may include but are not limited to type of business entity business entities invested in by specified individuals funds etc. e.g. friends family high profile investors those in one s social network or investor network etc. business entities having a specified return on investment rate of profit or the like and the like. From an investment information perspective the user defined filters may include but are not limited to stock quotes venture capital hedge fund investment information profile of other entities that have invested in the business entity investor presentations competitor business entities trend and trade history recent news concerning the business entity a rules based algorithm to automatically purchase stock if a specific user criteria is met and the like.

As previously discussed in relation to the memory of apparatus additionally includes investment related information presentation logic that is configured to present one or more investment related information indicators on a display of mobile communication device. Each investment related information indicator is presented in a live video stream proximate a location of the view of an associated business entity or the object associated with the business entity .

In one embodiment of the invention the investment related information indicators graphical tag highlight an area such as specific color or pattern highlighting or an outline around the border of the product as displayed in the live video stream . In specific embodiments the graphical representation of the indicator may differ depending on the information that the indicator is conveying. For example a green indicator may represent that the stock value of business entity is trending upward while a red indicator may represent that the stock value of the business entity is trending downward. The information conveyed by the indicators and the type of graphical representation provided to an indicator may be system configured and or user configured.

In specific embodiments of the invention the indicator may be user activatable. Such that the user of the mobile communication device may activate the investment related information indicator through touch mouse pointer click keypad voice command or the like to display investment related information. Additionally the indicator itself may provide brief investment related information such as the current stock price the market symbol for the business entity or the like. The investment related information may include but is not limited to business entity financial profile information identifying who else has invested in the business entity e.g. friends family high profile investors and the like government filings associated with the business entity investor presentations competitor business entities and their financial information stock trend data trade history data news headlines related to the business entity venture capital hedge fund investments in the business entity and the like.

In other embodiments of the invention activation of the investment related information indicator may provide for the mobile communication device to initiate communication with a network entity such as a financial institution website or the like configured for initiating a transaction to purchase sell stock to access brokerage accounts executive purchases or otherwise conduct an investment transaction related to the business entity. Further activation of the investment related information indicator may allow the user a direct video text and or voice conference call with his financial analyst to discuss investment options additions to portfolio execution of trades and or the like. Additionally if the user does not desire to currently conduct an investment transaction the presentation application may be configured to allow the user to add the business entity to an investment watch list for possible future investment transactions.

In addition the presentation application may be configured to share the information presented with friends family members stock brokers or the like. Sharing the information can occur by generating and communicating an automated electronic communication such as an email SMS text message or the like or posting a link to the information on a social network website or the like. Additionally the presentation application may be configured to provide the user access to a live video or text chat session with a broker who can assist the user with additional business entity information and or conduct an investment transaction on behalf of the user.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for presenting investment related information in a live video stream according to embodiments of the present invention.

At Event publicly traded or privately held business entities are identified. Identification may occur via captured visual information location information and or short range communication. In specific embodiments of the invention a video stream is captured by a mobile communication device such as a smart phone or the like. The video stream may include images of business entities products or other objects associated with business entities. For example a user may move about a city street or shopping mall while capturing a video stream of the environment including the business entities located on the street or within the mall. In additional embodiments the real time video stream may be captured from a mobile communication device affixed to a moving vehicle such as an automobile or the like such that as the vehicle is driven real time video stream may be captured including images of the business entities i.e. signage logos and the like that the vehicle passes.

In specific embodiments identification of the business entities implements object recognition techniques based on characteristics indicia e.g. Optical Character Recognition OCR or the like logos shapes and the like associated with an image of business entity a business entity logo a product associated e.g. manufactured with a business entity an object associate with the business entity or the like. In additional embodiments in which the products associated with a business entity include a visually readable code such as Quick Response QR code bar code or the like or tags displayed in conjunction with the products or objects associated with the business entity include the visually readable code identification of the business entities may include capture and decipher of such codes to identify the business entity.

In other related embodiments business entity identification logic may be configured to sense and receive short range communicated data such as via Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID or the like from products manufactured distributed by a business entity or other objects associated with the business entity. The information communicated from attached embedded or proximate short range communication mechanisms may include information that identifies the business entity or is associated with identifying the business entity.

At Event investment related information associated with the identified business entities is retrieved. The investment related information may include a current stock prices as well as links to access other networked investment related information. The other investment related information may include but is not limited to business entity financial profile information identifying who else has invested in the business entity e.g. friends family high profile investors and the like government filings associated with the business entity investor presentations competitor business entities and their financial information stock trend data trade history data news headlines related to the business entity venture capital hedge fund investments in the business entity social network recommendations financial analysis recommendations morning star rating companies similarly situated as current investments and the like.

At Event one or more investment related information indicators are presented on the display of a mobile communication device in conjunction with a live video stream. Each indicator is displayed proximate a location of an associated business entity or an object related to the business entity within the video stream or image. The indicator may take various forms such as display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot or the like. In specific embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that a user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command or the like the indicator to provide display of specifics related stock or investments in the business. The stock investment information may include but is not limited to the current price of the stock the current investment in the business by the user and or individuals associated with the user or notable investors annual reports information on the business corporation information filed with a government entity such as the Securities and Exchange Commission form 10 K or the like . The privately held investment information may include but is not limited to details about which venture capital hedge fund or other entities that have invested in the business company company information and the like.

Additionally the presented investment related information may provide access to a network entity such as a financial institution web site for conducting an investment transaction related to the business entity for example buying or selling stock in the business entity. Further the presented investment related information indicator may provide access to a live chat session with a stock broker or the like to further discuss specifics concerning the business entity or conduct an investment transaction on behalf of the user.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for presenting investment related information in conjunction with display of a live video stream that includes the related publicly traded or privately held business entity or an object such as a logo product or the like associated with the business entity. Business entities or the objects associated with the business entities that are proximate to a mobile communication device may be identified via object recognition techniques product codes wireless communication location determination or the like. Once the business entities or objects have been identified the related investment information is retrieved and indicators are displayed in the live video stream proximate to the display of the business entity or an object associated with the business entity. The user can activate the indicator to receive further investment related information or be connected to an online investment broker for the purpose of purchase stock or some other form of investment instrument associated with the business entity.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

