---

title: Graded dummy insertion
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques for graded dummy insertion and a resulting array are provided herein. For example an array is a metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) array, a metal oxide metal (MOM) array, or a resistor array. In some embodiments, a first region and a second region are identified based on a density gradient between a first pattern density associated with the first region and a second pattern density associated with the second region. For example, the first pattern density and the second pattern density are gate densities and/or poly densities. To this end, a dummy region is inserted between the first region and the second region, the dummy region includes a graded pattern density based on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density. In this manner, graded dummy insertion is provided, thus enhancing edge cell performance for an array, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08719755&OS=08719755&RS=08719755
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08719755
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120731
---
Generally a semiconductor device comprises an array one or more regions and one or more logic cells. The array generally comprises a metal oxide semiconductor MOS array a metal oxide metal MOM array or a resistor array. For example the semiconductor device comprises active cells and surrounding patterns which surround at least some of the active cells. However an active cell at an edge of a region of active cells and a region of surrounding patterns generally suffers from performance issues associated with an edge effect for arrays. For example chemical mechanical planarization CMP associated with fabrication of an array generally introduces performance issues causing undesirable device variation. Moreover buffers associated with the array of the semiconductor device occupy space on the device in an undesirable manner.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more techniques and or systems for graded dummy insertion and or a resulting array are provided herein. In an example the array comprises a metal oxide semiconductor MOS array a metal oxide metal MOM array or a resistor array. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the MOS array the MOM array and the resistor array are merely examples of arrays and other types of arrays are possible. Generally an array comprises one or more regions and respective regions comprise one or more logic cells. In some embodiments graded dummy insertion is provided by identifying a first region and a second region based at least in part on a density gradient between a first pattern density associated with the first region and a second pattern density associated with the second region and inserting a dummy region between the first region and the second region the dummy region comprising a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density. In an example one or more additional dummy regions is inserted between the dummy region and the second region and respective additional dummy regions comprise respective additional graded pattern densities such that the additional graded pattern densities are based at least in part on pattern densities of regions adjacent to the respective additional dummy regions. In this manner graded dummy insertion is provided. To this end a size of a buffer region associated with a distance from the first region to the second region is reduced at least because the graded dummy insertion provides for a reduced density gradient between the first region and the second region.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages and or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

According to an aspect as provided herein graded dummy insertion is provided by identifying a first region and a second region based at least in part on a density gradient between a first pattern density associated with the first region and a second pattern density associated with the second region and inserting a dummy region between the first region and the second region the dummy region comprising a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density. Therefore a dummy insertion utility is provided to enable insertion of dummy regions based at least in part on adjacent pattern densities. In this manner graded dummy insertion enables mitigation of device variation such that a density gradient between a region comprising active cells and a region comprising surrounding patterns is reduced. To this end a size of a buffer zone associated with a distance from a first region to a second region such as a dummy region is reduced thus enabling an efficient space layout.

It will be appreciated that the following Figures are not drawn to scale. For example the arrays illustrated in and such as but not limited to first region and or first array second region and or second array dummy region dummy region additional dummy region and or dummy region are not necessarily illustrated with respective heights to scale. In an example the first region and or the first array is illustrated with a height greater than a height of the second region and or the second array at least because a first pattern density is greater than a second pattern density .

In some embodiments the second array comprises surrounding patterns. Additionally the surrounding patterns of the second array comprise a second pattern density such as a second gate density of the second array . In an example the second array comprises a gate density of 25 . Accordingly a density gradient is determined by subtracting the gate density of the second array from the gate density of the first array. In an aspect the density gradient is determined by subtracting the pattern density of the second array from the pattern density of the first array. In this example the density gradient is 25 at least because 50 25 25 . In some embodiments a dummy region is inserted between the first array and the second array . According to an aspect the dummy region comprises a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density associated with a first adjacent region and a second adjacent pattern density associated with a second adjacent region the first adjacent region and the second adjacent region adjacent to the dummy region . For example the graded pattern density is 37.5 at least because the graded pattern density is based at least in part on a linear function associated with the first pattern density and the second pattern density . In this example the first adjacent pattern density is the first pattern density the second adjacent pattern density is the second pattern density the first adjacent region is the first array and the second adjacent region is the second array . However it will be appreciated that in other embodiments the first adjacent pattern density the second adjacent pattern density the first adjacent region and the second adjacent region are other regions. For example if additional dummy regions are inserted the adjacent pattern densities and or adjacent regions are regions and or pattern densities that may not be associated with the first array and the second array depending on a number of additional dummy regions. It will be appreciated that the graded pattern density is based on a non linear function in other examples. In some embodiments the graded pattern density is based on a curve function a log function or a function of a distance between the first array and the second array .

According to an aspect the graded pattern density of the dummy region is based at least in part on a linear function associated with the first pattern density and the second pattern density . In an example if the first pattern density is 50 and the second pattern density is 25 the graded pattern density is calculated accordingly. In some embodiments the graded pattern density is based at least in part on a number of dummy regions a width associated with a dummy region and or a design rule. In an example a delta between arrays and or regions is calculated according to second pattern density first pattern density 1 number of dummy regions between the first array and the second array . Therefore the graded pattern density of a dummy region adjacent to the first array the first pattern density delta dummy region number. For example the dummy region number for the dummy region adjacent to the first region is 1 the dummy region number for the additional dummy region adjacent to the second region is 2 etc.

At a dummy region is inserted between the first region and the second region the dummy region comprising a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density. It will be appreciated that in some examples the first adjacent pattern density is the first pattern density and the second adjacent pattern density is the second pattern density. However in some other embodiments the first adjacent pattern density is merely a pattern density associated with a first adjacent region and the second adjacent pattern density is merely a pattern density associated with a second adjacent region. In some embodiments the dummy region is inserted based at least in part on a density gradient threshold. For example a density gradient threshold is a threshold associated with the density gradient such that the dummy region is inserted if the density gradient is greater than the density gradient threshold. In some embodiments the density gradient threshold is ten. To this end a density gradient between a first region and a second region is calculated by subtracting the second adjacent pattern density from the first adjacent pattern density and if the density gradient is greater than ten the dummy region is inserted between the first region and the second region. If the density gradient is less than ten no dummy region is inserted between the first region and the second region.

In some embodiments one or more additional dummy regions are inserted between the dummy region and the second region. For example the respective additional dummy regions comprise respective additional graded pattern densities and the additional graded pattern densities are based at least in part on pattern densities of regions adjacent to the respective additional dummy regions. For example if an array comprises a first region of active cells comprising a first pattern density and a second region of surrounding patterns comprising a second pattern density three dummy regions are inserted between a first region comprising the first array of active cells and a second region comprising the surrounding patterns. According to some embodiments a density gradient is determined by at least one of subtracting the first pattern density from the second pattern density or subtracting the second pattern density from the first pattern density. In this example the first region borders a first dummy region followed by a second dummy region a third dummy region and the second region. Accordingly the additional graded pattern density of the first dummy region is based on the pattern density of the first region and the second dummy region at least because the first region and the second dummy region are adjacent to the first dummy region. Additionally the additional graded pattern density of the second dummy region is based on the additional graded pattern density of the first dummy region and the additional graded pattern density of the third dummy region at least because the first dummy region and the third dummy region are adjacent to the second dummy region. The additional graded pattern density of the third dummy region is based on the additional graded pattern density of the second dummy region and the pattern density of the second region at least because the second region and the second dummy region are adjacent to the third dummy region.

In an example graded pattern densities are based at least in part on a linear function associated with a first pattern density of the first region and a second pattern density of the second region. In some examples the first pattern density is a first gate density and the second pattern density is a second gate density. For example a pattern density is a gate density calculated by dividing a gate area within a sample area by the sample area. In other words a gate density is a ratio of gate area with respect to a sample area. For example if a sample area is 100 um and a total gate area within the sample area is 60 um 60 um 100 um a 60 gate density. For example if an array comprises a first region comprising a gate density of fifty percent and a second region comprising a gate density of twenty five percent a dummy region inserted between the first region and the second region comprises a thirty seven and one half percent gate density at least because a linear function associated with 50 and 25 maps to 37.5 based on an example of a one step graded dummy insertion. In some embodiments a delta in pattern density between regions is calculated by first pattern density second pattern density a number of desired graded dummy insertion regions 1 . For example if three dummy regions are inserted between a first region comprising a first pattern density of 50 and a second region comprising a second pattern density of 25 a first dummy region comprises a pattern density of 50 50 25 4 43.75 a second dummy region comprises a pattern density of 50 2 50 25 4 37.5 and a third dummy region comprises a pattern density of 50 3 50 25 4 31.25 followed by the second region comprising the second pattern density of 25 . In some embodiments a computer aided design CAD layer is created and or associated with at least one of the first region the second region the dummy region and or at least some of the additional dummy regions. At the method ends.

In some embodiments a computer aided design CAD layer is created for at least one of the first region and the second region and and or the dummy region and . To this end a design rule check DRC is run on a region and or an associated pattern density to determine compliance with a design rule. In an example the design rule specifies that the dummy region and comprises a width less than 15 um. In some embodiments the design rule specifies that a density gradient between the first region and and the dummy region and is less than 10 or an additional dummy region is inserted between the first region and and the dummy region and . In some embodiments a dummy insertion tool is configured to identify one or more regions and or one or more arrays associated with potential edge effects and or device variation based at least in part on a density gradient. In some embodiments the dummy insertion tool is configured to adjust a width of the dummy region and based at least in part on an edge effect simulation and or a device variation simulation. For example the dummy insertion tool reduces the width of dummy region such that the first region and the second region are closer together.

In some embodiments the dummy insertion tool is configured to identify a first region and a second region based at least in part on a density gradient between a first pattern density associated with the first region and a second pattern density associated with the second region. The dummy insertion tool is configured to insert a dummy region between the first region and the second region the dummy region comprising a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density. In some embodiments the dummy insertion tool is implemented at least in part via a processing unit.

In some embodiments the dummy insertion tool is configured to insert additional dummy regions and or additional steps based at least in part on a density gradient. is a top down and or layout view of an example array enhanced with graded dummy insertion according to some embodiments. For example illustrates an array comprising two steps such as two dummy regions between a first region and and a second region and . In some embodiments the array comprises a first region a second region a dummy region and an additional dummy region . At and respective pattern densities for the first region the dummy region the additional dummy region and the second region are indicated. Additionally and are indicative of pattern densities for the first region the dummy region the additional dummy region and the second region .

In other embodiments the array comprises a first array and a second array . Additionally it will be appreciated that regions or arrays are separated at an angle relative to other portions of the first array and other portions of the second array in some embodiments. For example a first region is at an angle to a second region by comparison to the first array and the second array separated by dummy region and additional dummy region . In some embodiments first region is substantially similar and corresponds to first region . Similarly second regions and dummy regions and and additional dummy regions and correspond in an according manner. In some embodiments the dummy regions and and the additional dummy regions and are 5 um wide. However it will be appreciated that dimensions associated with any of the dummy regions including the additional dummy regions are adjustable based on design rules.

In some embodiments the graded pattern density and additional graded pattern density are based on pattern densities of surrounding and or adjacent regions. For example in some embodiments the graded pattern density is based at least in part on the first pattern density and the additional graded pattern density . In another embodiment the additional graded pattern density is based at least in part on the second pattern density and the graded pattern density . In this way graded dummy insertion is provided and a buffer zone width associated with a distance between the first region and the second region is reduced.

In some embodiments a design rule check is executed on the inserted dummy region and or the graded pattern density associated with the dummy region. In an example the design rule checks for a density gradient between the dummy region and at least one of the first region and the second region and flags the dummy region if the density gradient is greater than ten. According to another example the design rule checks widths associated with the dummy region and or additional dummy regions such that a sum of the dummy region widths does not exceed a threshold. In an example a width of the dummy region is adjusted based at least in part on a design rule. For example a design rule associated with a total dummy width of 15 um can adjust a number of dummy regions inserted and or a width associated with an inserted dummy region such that the design rule is met. At the method ends. In this way cells at an edge of at least one of the first region and or the second region are mitigated from edge effects and or device variation. Additionally a buffer size associated with at least some of the dummy regions is reduced to enable efficient space management for a device.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium and or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions is configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of exemplary method of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features and or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to an aspect a method for graded dummy insertion associated with semiconductor fabrication is provided comprising identifying a first region and a second region based at least in part on a density gradient between a first pattern density associated with the first region and a second pattern density associated with the second region. The method comprises inserting a dummy region between the first region and the second region the dummy region comprising a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density.

According to an aspect an array enhanced with graded dummy insertion is provided comprising a first array associated with a first pattern density a second array associated with a second pattern density and a dummy region between the first array and the second array. In some embodiments the dummy region comprises a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density associated with a first adjacent region and a second adjacent pattern density associated with a second adjacent region. In some embodiments the first adjacent region and the second adjacent region are adjacent to the dummy region.

According to an aspect a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed at least in part via a processing unit on a computer performs acts by identifying a first region and a first pattern density associated with the first region. In some embodiments the computer readable storage medium identifies a second region and a second pattern density associated with the second region. In some embodiments the computer readable storage medium inserts a dummy region between the first region and the second region. In some embodiments the dummy region comprises a graded pattern density based at least in part on a first adjacent pattern density and a second adjacent pattern density.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements such as the first region second region dummy region s first adjacent region second adjacent region active region gate region identical dummy etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions and or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments. Additionally a variety of techniques exist for forming the layers features elements etc. mentioned herein such as implanting techniques doping techniques spin on techniques sputtering techniques such as magnetron or ion beam sputtering growth techniques such as thermal growth and or deposition techniques such as chemical vapor deposition CVD for example.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

