---

title: Medical patient data collaboration system
abstract: Systems and methods for mitigating breakdowns in communications among healthcare providers are described, among other features. A communications system can be provided for communicating patient information among health care providers, who may include clinicians, doctors, interns, residents, physician's assistants, nurses, or any other health care personnel. The communications system can enable tracking of the responsibility relationships between changing providers and patients. In addition, the communications system can allow rapid and reliable messaging between any provider and the provider responsible for the patient at any one time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058635&OS=09058635&RS=09058635
owner: 
number: 09058635
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120928
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 541 008 filed Sep. 29 2011 titled Medical Patient Data Collaboration System the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Multiple clinicians may see a patient during the course of a patient s hospitalization as clinicians change shifts and work assignments. In many inpatient units there are white boards that list the patient and the respective nurses doctors and technologists who are assigned to them. These boards usually list contact information for the personnel such as pagers and telephone numbers. If someone needs to reach the healthcare provider regarding the patient the board is consulted so that the appropriate provider can be paged.

The constant turnover of personnel makes it difficult to determine who holds any particular role in the care of the patient at any one time. Described herein are systems and methods for communication among healthcare providers which can permit tracking of the responsibility relationships among changing providers and patients and can therefore allow rapid and reliable messaging between any provider and the provider responsible for the patient at any one time. The system and method described herein can also facilitate a dialogue among the changing providers about the care of the patient.

In several embodiments a method of making patient care messages available to healthcare providers on different shifts includes electronically generating a provider assignment user interface for presentation to a user. The provider assignment user interface can include functionality for the user to assign a patient to a first team of healthcare providers. The method can also include in response to the patient being assigned to the first team of healthcare providers providing the first team of healthcare providers with access to a patient messaging user interface where the patient messaging user interface can enable the first team of healthcare providers to electronically post messages regarding care of the patient for access by each member of the first team of healthcare providers and for access by a second team of healthcare providers subsequently assigned to the patient without requiring the members of the first team of healthcare providers to know an identity of any of the second team of healthcare providers when electronically posting the messages where the messages include a task having a deadline providing a patient handoff user interface that provides functionality for care of the patient to be handed off from the first team of healthcare providers to the second team of healthcare providers providing the second team of healthcare providers with access to the posted messages regarding the patient posted by the first team of healthcare providers in response to a handoff of the patient care occurring via the patient handoff user interface wherein said providing the second team with access to the posted messages comprises sending a notification regarding the task to a member of the second team of healthcare providers that is a student provider before sending the notification to a supervisory provider of the second team of healthcare providers and in response to determining that the student provider failed to respond to the message escalating the notification of the task to the supervisory provider. The method may be implemented by a computer system including computer hardware.

In various embodiments a system for making patient care messages available to healthcare providers on different shifts can include a patient handoff component that can provide a patient handoff user interface that provides functionality for care of a patient to be handed off from a first team of healthcare providers initially assigned to care for the patient to a second team of healthcare providers subsequently assigned to care for the patient. The system can also include a messaging component that includes computer hardware. The messaging component can provide the first team of healthcare providers with access to a patient messaging user interface while the first team of healthcare providers is assigned to care for the patient. The patient messaging user interface can enable members of the first team of healthcare providers to post messages regarding care of the patient for access by each other and by the second team of healthcare providers without the first healthcare provider having to know an identity of the second healthcare provider. In response to care of the patient being transferred from the first team of healthcare providers to the second team of healthcare providers the messaging component can also automatically provide the second team of healthcare providers with access to the posted messages regarding the patient posted by the first team of healthcare providers.

In several embodiments non transitory physical computer storage can include instructions stored thereon that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to implement a system for making patient care messages available to healthcare providers on different shifts. The system can include a messaging component that can electronically generate a patient messaging user interface provide a first team of healthcare providers with access to the patient messaging user interface while the first team of healthcare providers is assigned to care for the patient where the patient messaging user interface can enable the first team of healthcare providers to post messages regarding care of the patient for access by each member of the first team of healthcare providers and by the second team of healthcare providers without the first team of healthcare providers having to know an identity of the second team of healthcare providers when posting the messages and automatically provide the second team of healthcare providers with access to the posted message regarding the patient posted by the first team of healthcare providers in response to care of the patient being transferred from the first team of healthcare providers to the second team of healthcare providers.

The systems and methods described herein can be implemented by a computer system comprising computer hardware. The computer system may include one or more physical computing devices which may be geographically dispersed or co located.

Certain aspects advantages and novel features of the inventions are described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus the inventions disclosed herein may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or selects one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Maintaining clinician schedules using white boards is a difficult and error prone task. The clerk who is in charge of updating the board has to consult work schedules for doctors nurses and other healthcare workers keeping track of changes in real time. The reality is that work schedules contain errors are out of date or are simply unavailable to the clerks. As a result the boards are frequently inaccurate. The physical boards are also inaccessible to the providers who practice elsewhere in the hospital or off site. As a result many providers do not know the other providers taking care of their patients. In a recent study of doctor nurse communication for example nurses correctly identified their patients doctors only 71 of the time. Doctors correctly identified their patients nurses in only 36 of the time. O Leary K. J. J. A. Thompson et al. 2010 . Patterns of nurse physician communication and agreement on the plan of care. 19 3 195 199 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. These misidentifications result in communication failures. Such communication failures are a frequent cause of adverse events the Joint Commission reports that such failures contributed to 65 of reported sentinel events. Sehgal N. L. et al. 2010 . Patient Whiteboards as a Communication Tool in the Hospital Setting A Survey of Practices and Recommendations. 5 4 234 239 234 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This confusion is not limited to doctors and nurses. For example a pharmacist upon detecting an error in the patient s medication may need to contact the doctor who is in charge of the patient. The physician who is currently taking care of the patient may not be the person who ordered medication in the first place because of the shift change and resulting handoff from one doctor to another. The pharmacist often then needs to contact the patient s unit so that the unit clerk can consult the board and tell the pharmacist which doctor is currently in charge and appropriate contact information . In the absence of the direct method to find the doctor in charge the pharmacist wastes time trying to communicate time sensitive and potentially life saving information. Breakdown in communication is inevitable however if the information that the pharmacist gets from the board is inaccurate. In such cases the pharmacist is forced to make several calls to different clerks who try to match up work schedules to obtain more accurate data. Even though the pharmacist detected the medication error subsequent communication breakdown may result in an adverse outcome for the patient.

This disclosure described systems and methods for mitigating such breakdowns in communications among other features. In several embodiments a communications system is provided for communicating patient information among health care providers who may include clinicians doctors interns residents physician s assistants nurses or any other health care personnel. The communications system can enable tracking of the responsibility relationships between changing providers and patients. In addition the communications system can allow rapid and reliable messaging between any provider and the provider responsible for the patient at any one time. Further the system can support asynchronous exchange of messages which can take the form of interactive dialogue or conversation among two or more providers. It should be noted however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

With reference to a computing environment is shown for providing users with access to an aggregator system often referred to herein as an aggregator . The aggregator includes hardware and or software for performing handoff messaging and or compliance functions. By way of example the depicted embodiment of the aggregator includes a handoff component a messaging component and a compliance component . Each of these components can be implemented in hardware and or software.

Users of the aggregator can include any provider or clinician any hospital or clinical facility staff member including clerical staff and the like. In one embodiment providers or other users connect to the aggregator through a LAN WAN or other network including optionally the Internet or wireless networks using any client device. Some examples of client devices include computers or mobile devices such as smart phones laptops touch pads kiosks desktops and the like. Users can also access the aggregator through an EMR application and optionally using browser software or other client software installed on a client device.

The aggregator can include software that executes on one or more computing devices such as one or more physical server computers. In embodiments where the aggregator is implemented on multiple servers these servers can be co located or can be geographically separate such as in separate data centers . In addition the aggregator can be implemented in a cloud computing platform such as may be available from Amazon Web Services the Windows Azure Platform or the like. For instance the aggregator can be implemented in one or more virtual machines that execute on one or more physical servers. Further the aggregator can include a server or appliance on the local area network which is protected from the wide area network e.g. the public Internet or other network by a firewall or other security mechanism.

In several embodiments the handoff component of the aggregator can allow providers to sign out or handoff patient care to one another at shift changes or at other times . This handoff process can symbolically represent the transfer of responsibility for the care of a patient. The messaging component can provide functionality for providers to send messages to one another and to subsequent providers on different shifts without having to know the identity of these providers beforehand. The compliance component can provide functionality for a clinical facility to comply with regulations related to patient care such as regulations regarding working hours of medical trainees like interns and residents. It should be understood that any handoff functionality described herein can be implemented by the handoff component any messaging functionality described herein can be implemented by the messaging component and any compliance functionality described herein can be implemented by the compliance component . Any subset of the features described herein with respect to the aggregator may be implemented in any given embodiment.

In several embodiments the computing environment can be implemented in a teaching hospital or other teaching clinical facility including educational facilities for doctors nurses or other clinicians . The handoff messaging and compliance functionality or any subset thereof can facilitate more efficient and effective training for interns residents and other medical trainees as will be described in greater detail herein. In addition other aspects of the computing environment shown in are described in more detail below. However the computing environment need not be implemented in a teaching facility but can be implemented in any facility.

Referring to to facilitate the handoff and messaging functionality the aggregator can monitor symbolic links between the providers and the patients and store these links in a database. As the totality of symbolic links may be constantly changing in real time or near real time in response to input by a plurality of providers upon a plurality of patients this is not a function that can be adequately performed by a human being as a mental process. When a provider wishes to send a message about a patient the aggregator can consult a database having a table of doctor links and a table of patient links . The aggregator can access these tables to retrieving the symbolic links between the patient and the current responsible providers. The aggregator can dynamically aggregate this information using an integration component to construct a list of the providers who are currently responsible for a given patient .

The aggregator also has the capability in several embodiments to route messages to the responsible provider . Therefore the aggregator can allow sending of messages without prospective knowledge of the recipient. The messages are routed automatically to the provider in charge at any one time. In one embodiment these messages may include notifications and reminders of tasks to be performed laboratory studies to be checked etc. which are scheduled without advance knowledge of the recipient. The aggregator determines the correct recipient at the scheduled time see e.g. below with respect to .

To briefly explain example operation of the aggregator an example handoff and message router scenario is provided in . Suppose at Time Point 1 Doctor A is in charge of care for Patient A . Subsequently doctors change shifts and Doctor A hands off Patient A to Doctor B who hands the patient off to Doctor C who hands the patient off to Doctor D. So at Time Point 2 Doctor D is in charge of Patient A. If Doctors A D use the aggregator this system can keep track of the symbolic links between each doctor and Patient A dynamically aggregating them and being aware which doctor is in charge of Patient A at any one time .

Suppose that Doctor A orders a medication and makes an error. A pharmacist who processes the medication order at Time Point 2 can use the current system to know that Doctor D needs to be informed of the error. The pharmacist does not have to go through the lengthy and inaccurate process of consulting the inpatient unit board to find out who the physician in charge of Patient A. Because in several embodiments the aggregator uses input directly from the doctors to register hand offs in real time the aggregator is inherently more accurate than the manual process used by the unit clerks which relies on doctors work schedules.

Taking one step further in suppose Doctor A at Time Point 1 orders a test which requires some time to complete for example an electrocardiogram EKG a test of electrical activity of the heart . Let Time Point 2 be the time when the EKG is complete. As with most tests the interval between Time Point 1 and Time Point 2 cannot be precisely known e.g. EKG can take various times according to the schedule staffing and load of the EKG lab . Therefore Doctor A cannot prospectively determine at Time Point 1 who would be the doctor in charge of Patient A at Time Point 2. However the aggregator can reliably calculate that it can be Doctor D because it dynamically determines it at Time Point 2 . Therefore using the aggregator Doctor A can set a reminder to check the results of the EKG without explicitly specifying its recipient. The reminder can be timed or triggered by arrival of EKG result or by the presence of an abnormal result. The aggregator can route the reminder automatically to the doctor in charge of the patient when the reminder is triggered e.g. at Time Point 2 the reminder is routed to Doctor D .

Referring to the aggregator can allow healthcare providers to among other things 1 sign in and sign out of the aggregator block start shift allowing the aggregator to monitor the state of the provider using a status monitor database or the like 2 to indicate their affiliation to a group of other providers a team block add doctor to team 3 to assign a patient to the team block to subsequently edit such assignment e.g. block 4 to perform integration on demand of the collected information for any patient block with the result of displaying which provider is responsible and available to take messages at any one time.

In several embodiments the aggregator can maintain the database to store the status of the provider. This database can be optionally queried to retrieve information indicating whether the provider is present or absent from the healthcare facility and or is available to take messages by pager or other means for example the provider is on call . This status database can be used to aggregate timing data to assess the provider s job performance and compliance with regulatory requirements such as provider work hours limitations according to the American College of Graduate Medical Education .

In several embodiments the aggregator can also maintain a table or database of doctor team associations which corresponds to the table of doctor links described above. Similarly the aggregator can maintain a patient team association database or table which corresponds to the table of patient links described above. In one embodiment the aggregator uses the tables to determine doctor patient relationships based on their respective team affiliations.

Referring to an embodiment of a process is shown for routing messages to the appropriate provider without having to know the identity of that provider beforehand. The process can be performed by the aggregator and more particularly by the messaging component .

The process begins at decision block where the messaging component evaluates whether a message is due. The message may have been created previously and is stored in a message data store . The messaging component can compare a due date or deadline in the stored message with a value of an internal clock to confirm whether the message is due. If it is not due the process waits. Otherwise the process proceeds to block where the messaging component determines a patient with which the message is associated from the message data store .

At block the messaging component determines a team associated with the patient by consulting a patient team association table or the like. Once the team is identified the messaging component can determine which doctors are associated with that team at block by accessing a doctor team association table or the like. The messaging component then determines whether a given one of those doctors is currently on duty at decision block . The process of picking a particular doctor to contact from a team of doctors is described in greater detail below. The messaging component can determine this doctor status information by consulting the status monitor database . If the relevant doctor from the team is currently on duty the messaging component delivers the message to the doctor at block . The message can be delivered via pager secure or other mobile communications via a doctor dashboard or similar display see below or the like. If the doctor is not available the messaging component can determine whether another doctor in the team is available repeating blocks through .

Although not shown the provider may be presented with a log in screen which requests user name password and optionally a biometric key or other credential. Alternatively secure access can be performed via integration of the application in the Electronic Medical Record EMR application using Active Directory or other directory services or other single sign on methodology.

Once the provider is logged in he may be presented with a user interface A shown in . In this user interface A a button or other control is shown which is selectable by the provider to enable starting his shift. Alternatively the aggregator may include a facility to start the provider s shift by detecting the presence of the provider by recognizing a biometric key an access card a hardware security token such as a fob by proximity detection technology such as RFID any other available authentication technology combinations of the same or the like. The aggregator may also include additional controls which would allow the provider to identify nuances of his status for example the provider may have ended his in hospital shift but remains on pager call from home.

Once the provider has indicated to the aggregator that he is on service the aggregator displays a list of his patients in a tabular form as shown in the user interface B of . The list includes the patients who are specifically assigned to the provider at that time. The list contains the patients basic information such as name medical record number and a brief description. In addition the table displays alerts about messages and notifications that have been sent about each patient as well as reminders of tasks to be performed. This patient table allows navigation through web links or other links to a patient information screen see FIG. described below which aggregates and allows editing of patient information messages tasks and notifications.

The user interface B includes various controls for accessing a home screen team information patients and the provider s profile. The provider can control which patients are assigned to him by editing his team affiliation by accessing one of these controls which results in display of an example team user interface in . The team user interface lists the teams of which the provider is currently a member. The provider can be a member of zero one or many teams. The team user interface also lists or alternatively has a facility to search and dynamically list the teams that can be added to the provider s team affiliations. The provider can select a team and add it to his roster or drop a team from the roster .

In several embodiments the teams have patients assigned to them so the relationship between the provider and patient can be mediated through teams. The providers can use the function of team affiliation for the purpose of patient handoff. For example a physician who is going on or off duty can collectively reassign the patients on his team to another provider by removing himself from a team control and by the other provider adding himself to the same team. Alternatively a provider can directly assign another provider to a team without having to have the provider assign himself to a team. This feature can be useful in teaching hospitals where a teaching provider desires to assign a provider to a particular team. Advantageously in some embodiments teams allow the patient affiliations to the physicians do not need to be managed individually making the process simpler more convenient and less error prone. Additionally since more than one physician can be on a team at any one time status information gathered by the aggregator at login can be used to identify the doctor on the team who is currently on duty and available to receive communications. In the depicted embodiment controls are also provided for editing and viewing details of teams and a control is provided for creating a new team.

The providers also manage the connections between patients and teams. Typically in an inpatient setting a patient can be associated with a team at the time of hospital admission. The patient is removed from the team at the time of discharge and is possibly reassigned to a different team to reflect the patient s affiliation with an outpatient provider. Further a patient can be associated with more than one team so for example a patient may be affiliated with a primary inpatient team e.g. family medicine admitting and a consult or cross cover team e.g. cardiology consult .

In an embodiment when the patient first presents to or visits with the provider or earlier the provider associates the patient with his team using a patient user interface as shown in . The user interface lists or has the facility or to search and dynamically list some or all available patient records stored by the aggregator . The provider may generate a new patient record if the patient is new to the aggregator . Alternatively the list of patient and patient records may be imported from the Electronic Medical Record database for example using an HL7 ADT data feed . The list of patients allows the provider import the patient to one of provider s teams. For example in the depicted embodiment a link is provided for importing a particular patient to a team. This link can be provided for any patient not currently affiliated with a team. Other patients that are already on a team are shown with their team affiliation e.g. Medicine 1A . A drop down box enables a user to select a particular team for a given patient not yet assigned to a team. In some cases the user interface may also be used to change a patient s team affiliation see also .

Subsequently the provider can edit the patient s team affiliation by going to the patient information user interface A of link to which he can now navigate through the master patient list on the user interface B . The patient information user interface A has the facility to access the patient s roster of teams to remove or add teams to this roster via link . The provider can use this function when the patient is discharged from the hospital in which case the provider removes his team from the patient s roster thereby breaking the connection between himself and the patient. Alternatively clerical staff can perform this functionality. The user interface A also displays general information about the patient including symptoms allergies biographical data and the like.

The patient information user interface A also has the facility to send messages regarding this patient to other providers using link . This link takes them to a message user interface an example of which is shown in . Alternatively messages are created within the user interface A . The message user interface has a text field for the text of the message. For other types of messages described in more detail below including comments tasks events or the like additional text fields may be provided. These fields can include a title field a due date field e.g. for tasks and a date field e.g. for events . Other fields or controls may also be provided. The message user interface also contains the list of the potential recipients of the message. The aggregator dynamically constructs the list of the potential recipients in one embodiment taking into account the patient s team affiliations the affiliations of providers with that team the status of those providers on duty off duty on call etc and optionally the team affiliation of the sender of the message e. g. the current user . Each recipient on the resulting list can be selected or deselected by the sender of the message using controls who thereby adds or removes the provider from the list of the recipients.

Optionally the aggregator may contain an algorithm to limit the recipient list based on the stated role of the provider for example the intern may be the provider to contact first resident next and attending physician last. When the user sends the message e.g. using button the patient information user interface for the listed and selected providers is updated to include the message and an alert is placed on the patient master list on the front page of the application. Optionally the message user interface contains the facility for the sender to specify the urgency of the message e.g. Low Medium or High using control . These alerts can be color coded when displayed on the user interface A of or B of B see below with respect to the urgency of the message e.g. green for Low yellow for Medium and red for High .

More generally a first role can be assigned to respond to a message or task first and a second role can be assigned to respond to the message subsequent to the first role and so on up to as many people are included in a team. The messaging user interface can provide functionality to prioritize messages or tasks in this manner. As an illustration a first role can be a training role such as an intern or resident while the second role can be a supervisory role such as a resident for supervising an intern and an attending physician. The messaging user interface can allow the order of roles to be notified to be selected without selecting actual names of providers. In response to a patient being handed off to a new healthcare team the aggregator can determine the roles of the providers in the new healthcare team and send messages at the proper time to such providers accordingly.

If a person first assigned to receive a message or task does not respond within a certain period of time which may be defined by the message initiator on the messaging user interface the second person assigned to receive the message subsequently can be notified. Further the messaging user interface can include a control s for the first person to indicate whether the message was acted on. If the message was not acted on e.g. which can be determined by evaluating that the first person did not use said control s the message can be escalated to the second person assigned to receive the message. In this manner supervisors can follow up on and monitor the actions of trainees. Outside of the teaching context this escalation functionality can be used by supervisors to monitor subordinates. The aggregator can also reduce errors in teaching hospitals by virtue of this escalation feature. More generally this escalation feature can reduce errors in any hospital or clinical setting.

The message user interface also contains a select box control that enables optionally paging the recipients presently or at some time in the future. If this control is chosen the aggregator connects to the paging provider and places a page electronically. The messages sent through the non secure paging system may include the notifications that a message is available to be viewed and the user may log in to the secure portal to view it. Alternatively the aggregator may have the capability to send messages through other means such as email or Short Messaging Service SMS through secure or non secure means e.g. block of . The aggregator may also publish an Application Programming Interface API through which an optionally secure client application may connect and receive messages or notifications example client applications are described below .

In the depicted embodiment the message user interface also contains a select box control that enables the user to request a notification in the event that nobody looked at the message within a selectable time frame. This notification can be another message which the aggregator automatically sends to the sender of the original message if certain conditions are met e.g. if the specified time interval has elapsed and or the message was not accessed by other providers . This notification can be a fail safe mechanism for communicating desired health information which allows making sure that a high priority message is received. The recipients have the option to identify to the aggregator that they viewed the message thereby providing a return receipt which may not directly sent back to the sender but may be stored in a database. The aggregator can also identify to the original sender whether the recipient viewed or accessed the message but did not act on it.

Messages may take various forms. Message subtypes may include but are not limited to comments questions tasks events problems medications and allergies. Many other subtypes are possible. By representing various forms of medical data as messages the aggregator can utilize its capacity for dynamically routed reminders notifications and actions to make medical data more interactive. For example when recording a potentially harmful medication in the aggregator as a message subtype a provider can set a dynamically routed reminder for someone in the future to check labs or otherwise monitor for expected complication.

Messages can have a standard core of functionality including capability to store the sender patient title body text timestamp and associated notifications or other actions . One possible feature of messages in several embodiments is the ability to have child messages. The parent child hierarchy of messages enables providers to use messages to create electronic conversations as seen in . For example a first message is shown to which a second message indented below is shown in response as a child message. The messages shown are short and provided in a blog micro blog or social networking format. In other embodiments messages can be presented as instant messages chat room messages combinations of the same or the like. However the messages need not be in such formats in some embodiments. As another example a provider may record a medication as a message then another provider may attach another message to the first in the form of a question. Subsequently a comment can be attached to the question so that the whole team can see the answer. A provider who asked the question can even set a notification to himself if the question was not answered in the appropriate time frame. In several embodiments this electronic conversation captures in an asynchronous manner the dynamic exchange of information and ideas among multiple providers involved in the care of a single patient. This approach goes beyond the current state of the art embodied in the typical electronic health record which statically conveys data. The electronic dialogue described herein can contribute to a high level of coordination and integration of care. More generally the aggregator can provide healthcare providers with tools to create a dynamic asynchronous conversation or dialogue about the care of a given patient enabling enhanced coordination and integration of care delivery.

Several examples of message subtypes follow. A comment can be a subtype of message which does not have a specific recipient recipients but can be displayed to all members of the team. An event can be a subtype of message that is similar to a comment but has a specific date associated with it. It can be used to record a desired event in the hospital course such as an operation. A task is a type of message that has a due date has a special status complete or incomplete can be made complete by user actions and has a specialized set of actions.

For example referring to the patient user interface B includes a task . When a task is set the provider who creates it author sets the task for the whole team or optionally for a subset of a team . The author can specify the date and time when the task becomes due see e.g. . The author can set a notification to be sent when the task becomes due to the provider who can be responsible for the patient at that time to be dynamically determined by the aggregator at that time . The author can also send notification to himself if the task is overdue for a certain period of time. For example an attending may assign a task to a team of residents. She may not know prospectively who the responsible provider can be when the task can become due but the aggregator can dynamically determine that and can send the notification to the appropriate recipient. The attending may also specify that she should receive a notification if the task is not completed within one hour of being overdue. At that point in time the aggregator can evaluate the specified conditions e.g. Is the task overdue Is the task complete Has it been more then one hour since the task became overdue and can send a notification to the attending if the conditions are met.

A notification for a message is an example of an action which in a more general form that may be reused throughout the aggregator . An action can be a process that is automatically performed by the aggregator and can involve sending a message but is not inherently limited to sending messages scheduling by the user for some time in the future and automatic triggering at a predetermined time and or by satisfaction of specified conditions. The usefulness of the actions can be greatly enhanced by the aggregator s capability to dynamically determine the providers who are in charge of the patient at the time when the action is triggered. This function determines the recipients of the messages sent as a result of the action. The concept of an action can enable the aggregator to schedule some kinds of messages to be provided at a future specified time or date. A provider might want to send a message conditionally for example based on the internal clock see or on another condition e.g. arrival of an abnormal EKG result . Each message type can specify a number of actions that a user can set together with the options and logic that is specific to the action.

In one embodiment the aggregator provides a scripting interface with an API that allows definition of actions outside the source code of the aggregator . This API may allow dynamic message creation sending response or adjustment to occur. For example a comment message may specify the action to page a person to be dynamically determined based on the input of a Page recipient select box e.g. in 6 hrs 12 hrs etc. if this input is other than Never or Now. The comment message may also send a message with a page to the author of the message if the message has not been viewed by another user in the time frame based on an input to Notify me if not viewed select box unless it s Never. A Question message may specify an action to notify the sender if somebody answers the question by creating a child message or alternatively if somebody does not respond in a particular time. A Task can have an action to remind the dynamically determined provider that a task is coming due. It can also specify that a message be sent to the originator of the task if the task is overdue by a certain time among other features.

The aggregator is capable of filtering messages by type date author recipient and other parameters among other criteria allowing the aggregator to dynamically generate a view of the current issues in the patient s care. This view is displayed on the patient information user interface A. In one embodiment of the patient information user interface problems medications and events such as labs operations room transfers etc. are separately displayed on the left of the user interface A and a running table of the most recent messages and conversations can be displayed in a hierarchical fashion on the right. This arrangement is merely one example implementation however. Additional tabs allow display of tightly filtered messages such as recent tasks incomplete tasks messages awaiting acknowledgement labs and the like.

Messages can be formatted along with supplementary information into grids which providers commonly use in patient handoff. An example grid is shown in which may also be accessed from link of the user interface B . Providers often print grids on paper and use them as guides when signing out verbally to the provider coming on duty. The grids in the current system can be used in a similar fashion either in the printed form or displayed on a mobile device such as a tablet smart phone computer or other device. The client devices can also be used concurrently to receive and send messages and notifications.

The configuration of the patient grids and patient information user interfaces A B can vary based on the type of team to which the patient and provider belong. Multiple pre defined templates are predefined and used to tailor display of data to the specific needs of the providers. For example the information display for pediatric patients can substantially differ from the display for a OB Gyn patient in Labor and Delivery.

The patient information user interfaces A B and the grids can be formatted and messages filtered appropriately based on the role of the user. The aggregator can support multiple roles such as provider nurse nurse practitioner technologist and manager among others. Nurse and technologist roles may not have access to all the information accessible to providers in some embodiments on the other hand providers may wish to filter out nurses or technologists messages for the sake of clarity. The role system implemented by the aggregator in some embodiments enables tight access control of patient information on the need to know basis to aid compliance with confidentiality regulations concerning protected medical information such as HIPAA . The role system can also enable the patient to access this system as a user. The aggregator can present an appropriately filtered subset of information appropriate for the patient. The patient would be able to ask the providers questions about particular medications or problems. Such an arrangement would improve the providers awareness of patients concerns and thereby promote patient safety and satisfaction with care.

The aggregator may also include a number of manager administrator functions which allows creation and management of user accounts and assignment administration of user roles. The aggregator is capable of using the stored data to display information which is relevant to healthcare administration and regulatory compliance. For example illustrates an example management user interface that allows a manager to search for users via search box . Upon searching for a user a user interface of can be presented to the manager. This user interface depicts various users such as providers in a facility. Another management user interface shown in can be accessed by selecting any of the users in . This user interface includes log information regarding the selected user which includes logon and logoff times to the aggregator system.

An administrative dashboard in may reflect the clock time information for providers aggregated from the log information shown in . This information can be used as evidence of healthcare facility compliance with American College of Graduate Medical Education ACGME work hour rules. Alternatively the aggregator may contain a dashboard which displays the census of patient on various services and teams. This information can by used by the administrator to balance work load among teams and physicians improving efficiency of service and job satisfaction for providers. In one embodiment the compliance module of the aggregator compiles this work hour information or other information and automatically sends it to the ACGME or another regulatory agency.

In another embodiment the team concept described herein can be extended to encompass additional functionality. A team may include more than just providers from a single clinical facility in one embodiment. For example a team can include any combination of providers or other personnel from multiple clinical facilities. As an illustration a team can include an intern resident and attending physician from one facility a pharmacist from another facility a home care nurse technicians from a lab facility an independent contracting physician s assistant and so forth.

In another embodiment teams can be configured based on provider specialties. Providers or administrators can assemble these specialty teams such as diabetes specialists radiologists cardiologists and so forth. A provider going on vacation or otherwise becoming unavailable may wish to find providers to take care of his patients. Specialized teams can help the doctor with this task. For instance a provider with a diabetes patient can search for a diabetes specialist team and assign the patient to the team or to a subset thereof such as a single doctor . The aggregator may also provide functionality for the provider to create a subteam from an existing team. Such functionality may be useful for instance to create a team of specialist doctors that are currently at a hospital as a subset of all diabetes doctors in a given team some of whom may be off duty . Further such functionality may also be useful because there may be many teams in a hospital or other healthcare setting and it may be difficult to locate the right team in a large healthcare institution without such functionality.

In one embodiment the teams described above are organized into services that correspond to functional groups of providers which may be defined along the lines of medical and surgical specialties. For example multiple teams can be created for Internal Medicine General Surgery or Gynecology services among others. Services provide a way to organize teams making relevant teams easier to find in the system. Additionally teams of the same service may share the same user interface which can be based on a template specific to the service. For example surgeons may want to see the date of prior operation and drain output data on their patient grid but internal medicine physicians may want to track the patient s smoking status and other cardiovascular risk factors. Using service specific templates in certain embodiments the teams on a particular service can receive similar user interfaces that are tailored to the goals of the particular service.

Further in certain embodiments some or all messages are tagged with the name of the service or other identifier thereof which originated them. This tagging can allow convenient filtering of messages that are relevant to the service. Tagging can provide additional benefits when multiple teams on different services take care of the same patient. This is a frequent occurrence. For example when a trauma patient primarily assigned to a general surgery team is followed by Neurology Orthopedics or Gastroenterology consulting teams. These teams may share some of the same patient data such as name age history of present illness allergies etc. but may choose to keep separate tasks comments and issues and or other types of messages . This filtered message flow can be easily accomplished when the user chooses to view only the messages generated by the user s service.

In certain embodiments each patient has a status that identifies whether the patient is an inpatient or an outpatient. When the patient is admitted to the hospital the status can be set to inpatient and when the patient is sent home the status can change to outpatient. Likewise teams may be based in the inpatient and outpatient setting. Consequently teams can have a base setting of inpatient or outpatient. The aggregator can tailor the display of patients with regard to their status and the team base. For instance the aggregator can match the patient status and team base to generate the primary patient list for the team. Thus for example an inpatient team can receive a list or grid of inpatients and an outpatient team can receive a list or grid of outpatients. Further any of the teams including both inpatient and outpatient teams may also include non clinician service providers who can benefit from access to patient information such as social workers.

When an inpatient gets discharged and his her status changes to outpatient the patient can remain associated with the inpatient team while falling off the primary patient list. However the patient can continue to be displayed in one or more secondary lists available to clinicians in the hospital. Continuing to provide access to these outpatients to clinicians in the hospital can be useful because clinicians in the hospital may need to follow up on lab tests or appointments for the patients they have previously discharged. Lack of such follow up can lead to unnecessary hospital readmissions a preventable and significant source of waste in healthcare.

In one embodiment of the current system a hospital clinician can look at a secondary list of discharged inpatients to identify patients that need outpatient follow up. The clinician can use the system s messaging functionality to set himself herself a task and be prompted to complete the task when the time for follow up comes. The task can prompt the physician because the logical connection between the patient and clinician may persist through the inpatient to outpatient transition. The aggregator can use customizable business logic to generate secondary lists of patients. In one embodiment of the secondary list the aggregator displays a watch list of discharged patients outpatients attached to an inpatient team who have a pending incomplete task such as following up on lab results . The aggregator can also continue to provide clinicians with access to messages and the other features described herein for outpatients. In an embodiment task alerts and messages are filtered based on team base such that an inpatient team is notified of tasks and messages for an inpatient instead of an outpatient team such as a clinic physician associated with the inpatient. However the outpatient team may still have access to the task alerts and messages and may choose to continue to receive such alerts and messages in some instances.

Likewise when an outpatient is attached to an outpatient team the patient can appear on the outpatient team s primary list. The outpatient team can access the team s primary list through the features of the aggregator even when the clinicans in the output team are outside of the hospital. For instance physicians at clinics can access the features of the aggregator to monitor their patients who become inpatients and continue to monitor those patients when they are discharged. Allowing clinicians outside of the hospital to continue to monitor their patients during and after a hospital stay may be useful for clinic physicians to keep track of their patients. In an embodiment a patient is admitted to a hospital the patient would fall off the primary list of the outpatient clinician. The aggregator can display such a patient in a secondary list of the outpatient clinician which list could be a list of inpatients attached to an outpatient team. Using such a list the clinic physician can follow the patient s hospital course and participate in the patient s care throughout the continuum of care. Thus in certain embodiments the aggregator can advantageously prevent situations where a clinic physician is unaware of one of his or her patients being admitted to the hospital. The aggregator can be implemented in the cloud or more generally in one or more servers or other computing devices accessible by clinicians both inside and outside of the hospital to facilitate this continuum of care functionality.

Certain events in the continuum of care such as admissions discharges and transfers involve certain standard sequences of clinician actions such as for surgery diagnoses tests etc. . As multiple patients go through such events tend to clinician generate the same sequences of tasks for multiple patients. This process can be laborious and repetitive and also may be prone to human error since an individual clinician may forget to create an important standard task. One implementation of the aggregator can provide checklists associated with aforementioned events. These checklists can contain items that can be converted to tasks at will thereby automating the process of task generation. The checklists can be useful because they can remind clinicians of a standard sequence of tasks thereby reducing the possibility of human. The automated creation of tasks using checklists can also save clinicians time. For example each checklist can include a list or template of tasks that the aggregator can cause to auto generate tasks when the checklist is selected for a particular patient by a clinician. The aggregator can provide a management user interface to generate checklists which may be specific to a service or services or specific to a team or teams. Users can obtain a selection of checklists from the patient user interfaces or other user interfaces described above e.g. such as and apply multiple tasks to a patient at one time.

In one implementation of the system there is a user interface which lists the patients in a tile format with a simplified view of tasks displayed. This interface provides an uncluttered view of pending tasks allowing providers to quickly plan their workflow and to monitor task completion. depicts an example of such a patient list user interface that demonstrates an alternative display of patients in a tiled view with a brief description and the list of active tasks for each patient.

The aggregator including messages information user interfaces and grids as well as team management functions can be accessed with standard web browsers on the healthcare facility s local area network. Users may access the aggregator from the computers directly connected to the LAN or from the mobile devices that securely connect to the facility wireless network Wi Fi . Alternatively the aggregator may publish an Application Programming Interface API which would allow appropriately credentialed and provisioned devices and application to access the aggregator s information. A possible embodiment of such client application is a native program on a mobile device which accesses the aggregator through a defined web service address presenting appropriate security credentials. The client application can use appropriate protocols such as SOAP or REST to exchange information with the aggregator allowing users immediate real time or rapid access to the flow of messages. Further the routing capability of the aggregator can be used to initiate IP based voice communication. For example a provider may send a specialized message dynamically routed in the standard fashion to a mobile device. The provider with the device immediately initiates a VoIP connection with the sender of the message. Moreover messages can have the capability to optionally attach other documents such as photographs radiological images textual and or multimedia documents to the body of the message. Other forms of communications such as links to other online media or voice video recordings could likewise be embedded.

So far a system of messaging within a local area network has been discussed. Such a system communicates with the outside Wide Area Network WAN through the institution s firewall in order to access the common facilities for paging and messaging. A possible embodiment of the aggregator may have secure connections across the WAN with facilities for common servicing and maintenance of the aggregator . Connections could also exist among such systems at different healthcare institutions allowing free secure communication among providers in multiple settings including outpatient settings doctor s office settings nursing homes and home care settings among others. Moreover some or all the functions of the aggregator such as data storage and messaging could be centralized in a scalable cloud infrastructure leveraging efficiencies of scale and minimizing cost for healthcare providers and institutions. Extending this concept further a super aggregator could be established in a cloud computing platform or in one or more data centers which would enable collaboration of patient information handoffs and messaging among multiple clinical facilities including hospitals doctors offices pharmacies labs in home healthcare and the like.

Further although this specification describes handoff messaging compliance and other features in the context of teams it should be understood that teams are not necessary in every implementation. Instead in some embodiments individual providers can access the handoff messaging and or compliance functions of the aggregator . Moreover any of the user interfaces described herein may include different user interface controls for the same functionality shown herein.

Data gathered by the aggregator can be leveraged to create reports on a variety of different metrics. For instance the aggregator can include a reporting component not shown that can use the data regarding provider sign ins and sign outs combined with patient discharge data to evaluate discharge rates determine individual providers discharge rates and so on.

In some embodiments a goal of the day or the like for a patient such as a progress goal for the patient can be posted in the messaging user interface. The aggregator can also provide prompts or reminders to review or write content such as certain messages or reports.

The aggregator can provide increased patient privacy by reducing patient information exposure on white boards. Even in hospitals where patient names are replaced by room numbers on white boards privacy is still at risk. The aggregator can completely eliminate the usage of white boards for tracking patient data provider scheduling and so forth.

In some embodiments the aggregator can include a translation component or access a translation service via a web service or remote procedure call. The translation component or service can provide functionality for translation messages into different languages for different providers or patients enabling providers of different cultures to communicate more effectively. The aggregator could also include other assistance tools such as tools for reading words of messages out loud for blind persons or the like.

The aggregator can provide different levels of access or functionality to different persons. Some persons may be granted full access to messages and patient data while others are presented with more limited views for example based on HIPAA or other privacy laws. Supervisors may have additional functions from the aggregator than trainees or subordinates for example. Managers may also have different functions from providers as described above.

The messages provided by the messaging user interface can be generated using templates in one embodiment. These templates can include common phrases words sentences images or video that can be used to more rapidly create messages. Further images of patients video or lab results images or video can also be included in some embodiments.

The aggregator may also be able to communicate over a network with an application such as a mobile application or web service based application. The application can provide any of a variety of features. For instance the application may be a secure application that enables families of patients to do any subset of the following check messages made regarding those patients determine which doctor s is seeing a patient at any given time so as to be able to direct questions to the correct doctor ask questions and communicate with doctors and patients via the messaging user interface email concerns or questions such as what time is the surgery tomorrow and the like. Family members contact info can be posted in the messaging user interface or another user interface enabling doctors to contact family members. Living wills powers of attorney and other legal documents can also be attached to patient records in the user interfaces provided by the aggregator . Features can be provided for patients to upload such documents to the aggregator .

In existing environments patient charts are often left at beds mistakenly. Thus patient privacy is breached when subsequent patients come to the facility. Further due to this common error patient charts can be mixed together causing potential life jeopardizing problems. In contrast the aggregator can reduce or eliminate these problems altogether by keeping electronic charts of patients via the patient information and messaging user interfaces among other features. Generally speaking the patient charts and other features of the aggregator can provide a patient centered initiative such that the aggregator in some embodiments is not just a system for sharing information but also a system for enabling providers to have a patient care focused conversation or dialogue that can improve coordination of care.

In several embodiments the aggregator functions as an add on component of the EHR Electronic Health Record system or EMR system supplementing current functionality with enhanced messaging and dynamic routing capabilities. Although this implementation is made seamless in some embodiments with the EHR from the workflow standpoint by the use of single sign on technologies and integration interfaces the aggregator can still be a stand alone system. In another embodiment the aggregator can perform the totality of the functions of the EHR thereby wrapping the medical data in the messaging functionality and user defined dynamic actions. In this embodiment the concepts of dynamic determination of the provider in charge of the patient dynamic conditional routing of messages and the resulting electronic dialogue can be used as guiding principle in constructing the EHR s of the future. Wrapping medical data including for example medications problems etc into messaging functionality with dynamic logic e.g. actions can therefore be an advantageous paradigmatic shift from the current static representation of data in the Electronic Health or Medical Records EHR EMR .

Many other variations than those described herein can be apparent from this disclosure. For example depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in several embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. In addition different tasks or processes can be performed by different machines and or computing systems that can function together. Although certain computer implemented tasks are described as being performed by a particular entity other embodiments are possible in which these tasks are performed by a different entity.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed by a machine such as a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be a controller microcontroller or state machine combinations of the same or the like. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. A computing environment can include any type of computer system including but not limited to a computer system based on a microprocessor a mainframe computer a digital signal processor a portable computing device a personal organizer a device controller and a computational engine within an appliance to name a few.

The steps of a method process or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of non transitory computer readable storage medium media or physical computer storage known in the art. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that several embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it can be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As can be recognized several embodiments of the inventions described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others.

