---

title: Transparent contacts for stacked compound photovoltaic cells
abstract: A microsystems-enabled multi-junction photovoltaic (MEM-PV) cell includes a first photovoltaic cell having a first junction, the first photovoltaic cell including a first semiconductor material employed to form the first junction, the first semiconductor material having a first bandgap. The MEM-PV cell also includes a second photovoltaic cell comprising a second junction. The second photovoltaic cell comprises a second semiconductor material employed to form the second junction, the second semiconductor material having a second bandgap that is less than the first bandgap, the second photovoltaic cell further comprising a first contact layer disposed between the first junction of the first photovoltaic cell and the second junction of the second photovoltaic cell, the first contact layer composed of a third semiconductor material having a third bandgap, the third bandgap being greater than or equal to the first bandgap.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09508881&OS=09508881&RS=09508881
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09508881
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121011
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Multi junction photovoltaic cells have achieved high efficiencies relative to other types of photovoltaic cells. A high cost of materials and manufacture a low price to performance ratio and other factors inhibit widespread adoption thereof. Multi junction photovoltaic cells comprise multiple junctions tuned to absorbing different wavelengths of light. Monolithically integrated multi junction photovoltaic MIMJ PV cells consist of multiple junctions that are mechanically and electrically connected and are generally more efficient than single junction cells but are far more costly to produce. Additionally such cells are restricted by lattice matching considerations for material growth and are still further restricted by requiring current matching such that a cell can be optimized with respect to a single particular input spectrum e.g. if the input spectrum changes the cell will not operate optimally .

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various technologies pertaining to microsystems enabled multi junction photovoltaic MEM PV cells are described herein. A MEM PV cell is an integrated multi junction photovoltaic cell. Cells of such type can be produced by way of semiconductor manufacturing techniques such that the cells are relatively small e.g. between 100 m and 5 mm in diameter and relatively thin e.g. between 1 m and 2 mm . A MEM PV cell comprises a plurality of cells that are mechanically bonded into a vertical stack. Each cell comprises a junction and the cells are arranged in the vertical stack such that absorbing semiconductor materials in the respective cells are arranged in order of decreasing bandgap from the face exposed to light. A contact layer of a cell in the MEM PV cell has a bandgap that is selected such that the contact layer acts as a window layer in the MEM PV cell that is solar radiation not absorbed by a cell higher in the vertical stack passes through the contact layer such that the solar radiation can be absorbed by a cell lower in the vertical stack. In other words a respective contact layer is transparent with respect to soar radiation not absorbed by semiconductor materials higher in the vertical stack of the MEM PV cell.

Moreover it is to be understood that contact layers may have substantially planar surfaces thereby promoting use of microsystems technology such as wafer bonding technology to intimately bond two cells. Specifically the contact layers are un etched. Intimate bonding of cells refers to bonding of cells such that the bond is substantially free of voids and or defects.

Each cell in the MEM PV cell can be independently contacted via metal stacks or a metallized coating added to a contact layer. Different metal stacks may be used depending on the respective contact layer material. Further the plurality of cells in the vertical stack may be arranged in order of decreasing diameter from the top of the vertical stack to the bottom of the vertical stack such that a portion of a contact applied to each cell is exposed on the exterior of the MEM PV cell. Each cell in the plurality of cells may thus be individually contacted such as by applying traces to each exposed contact portion. It is to be understood that the metal stacks need not intrude onto an optical aperture of the cells thereby maintaining relatively planar surfaces for bonding. This is due to the relatively small area of such cells.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to microsystems enabled multi junction photovoltaic MEM PV cells will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference to a cross sectional view of an exemplary MEM PV cell is illustrated. A MEM PV cell is an intimately integrated multi junction photovoltaic cell comprising a plurality of separately processed photovoltaic cells. Cells of such type can be produced by way of semiconductor manufacturing techniques such that the cells are relatively small e.g. between 100 m and 5 mm in diameter and relatively thin e.g. between 0.5 m and 2 mm . The MEM PV cell comprises a first cell and a second cell arranged in a vertical stack. Position of a cell in the vertical stack is described with reference to traversal of solar radiation therethrough thus as shown the first cell is above the second cell in the vertical stack as the first cell receives solar radiation prior to the second cell receiving the solar radiation.

The first cell and the second cell can each have a diameter for instance between 0.1 mm and 5 mm and of a thickness of between 0.5 m and 100 m. The first cell and the second cell comprise a first junction and a second junction respectively. First semiconductor material is employed to form the first junction while second semiconductor material is employed to form the second junction. In an exemplary embodiment the first junction and the second junction can be p n junctions although the MEM PV cell is not so limited. For example the first junction and the second junction can be p i n junctions. The bandgap of the first semiconductor material is higher than bandgaps of respective semiconductor materials employed to form junctions lower in the vertical stack. Thus the first semiconductor material absorbs solar radiation of wavelengths with higher energy than the bandgap of the first semiconductor material while solar radiation of wavelengths with lower energy than the bandgap of the first semiconductor will pass through the first semiconductor material and be absorbed by the subsequent semiconductor materials.

The first cell comprises a first contact layer composed of a third semiconductor material and the second cell comprises a second contact layer composed of a fourth semiconductor material. The cell further comprises an isolator layer that electrically isolates the first contact layer from the second contact layer . Accordingly the isolator layer can be composed of a suitable dielectric. The first contact layer in an exemplary embodiment can be a negative contact layer for the first cell while the second contact layer can be a positive contact layer for the second cell . As shown the first contact layer and the second contact layer extend throughout the diameter of the cell that is the first contact layer and the second contact layer are un etched. The surfaces of the first contact layer and the second contact layer are substantially planar thus facilitating bonding of the first cell and the second cell by way of the isolator layer . The first cell and the second cell can be bonded using a wafer activation process e.g. wafer bonding a metal to metal wafer bond through an epoxy or polymer or other suitable technique.

As will be understood the first cell comprises a third contact layer which has a polarity opposite that of the first contact layer . Similarly the second cell comprises a fourth contact layer that has a polarity opposite that of the second contact layer . The first cell can be independently contacted by way of the first contact layer and the third contact layer . Likewise the second cell can be independently contacted by way of the second contact layer and the fourth contact layer . A bandgap of a semiconductor material utilized for the third contact layer can be sufficiently high to act as a window layer with respect to the first junction .

In an exemplary embodiment bandgaps of the third semiconductor material and the fourth semiconductor material respectively can be relatively high compared to conventional materials utilized to form contacts in multi junction cells. Specifically the bandgap of the third semiconductor material and the bandgap of the fourth semiconductor material are respectively either equal to or greater than the bandgap of the first semiconductor material of the first cell . Thus the first contact layer and the second contact layer act as a window layer such that solar radiation having wavelengths that are not absorbed by the first semiconductor material passes through the first contact layer and the second contact layer as well.

The type of semiconductor material to employ as the third semiconductor material and the fourth semiconductor material as well as thickness of the first contact layer and the second contact layer can be based upon their respective bandgaps metal contacts applied to the first contact layer and the second contact layer and spreading resistance of the respective semiconductor materials. Thicknesses of the first contact layer and the second contact layer can be selected to allow for low spreading resistance as well as to be suitably thick such that metals from metal stacks do not diffuse through the respective contact layers. In an exemplary embodiment thickness of the first contact layer and or the second contact layer can be between 0.1 m and 3 m. Further in an exemplary embodiment spreading resistance can be between for instance 0.001 and 10 ohms.

Referring now to another cross sectional view of a portion of the exemplary MEM PV cell is illustrated. The MEM PV cell comprises the first cell which includes the first junction the first contact layer and the third contact layer . The MEM PV cell further comprises the second cell which includes the second junction the second contact layer and the fourth contact layer . As noted above the first contact layer and the second contact layer have substantially planar surfaces such that the first cell and the second cell can be intimately bonded by way of the isolator layer .

As shown an upper portion of the first cell has a diameter D1 the first contact layer has a diameter D2 the second contact layer has a diameter D3 and the fourth contact layer has a diameter D4 wherein D1 is less than D2 D2 is less than D3 and D3 is less than D4. Formation of the MEM PV cell in this manner allows for the first cell and the second cell to be independently contacted on the exterior of the MEM PV cell .

Referring now to an exemplary MEM PV cell is illustrated. The MEM PV cell comprises a first cell a first isolator layer a second cell a second isolator layer and a third cell . The first isolator layer and the second isolator layer are composed of a suitable dielectric such that the first isolator layer substantially electrically isolates the first cell and the second cell and the second isolator layer substantially electrically isolates the second cell and the third cell . As shown the first cell can be an Indium Gallium Phosphide InGaP cell the second cell can be a Gallium Arsenide GaAs cell and the third cell can be an Indium Gallium Arsenide InGaAs cell although such cell types are set forth for purposes of explanation and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims. Additionally the exemplary MEM PV cell can comprise additional types of cells such as for example an Indium Gallium Arsenide Phosphide InGaAsP cell which can be integrated in the MEM PV cell between the GaAs cell and the InGaAs cell. In another exemplary embodiment a silicon Si cell can be integrated between the GaAs cell and the InGaAs cell or potentially between the GaAs cell and the InGaAsP cell.

In the exemplary MEM PV cell shown in the first solar cell comprises in vertical order an n GaAs contact layer an n InAlP window layer an n InGaP emitter layer a p InGaP base layer a p AlGaInP back surface field BSF layer and a p InGaP contact layer . A p n junction is formed between the n InGaP emitter layer and the p InGaP base layer . A bottom surface of the P InGaP contact layer can be substantially planar. It can be ascertained that in the first solar cell other materials can be employed for the various window and contacting layers provided that such materials meet the cell design specifications. The material employed to form the contact layer can be selected to minimize light absorption therein e.g. a relatively high bandgap material such as to allow for as much light as possible to be transmitted through the cell structure. The material employed to form the contact layer can be selected such that the contact layer does not absorb light that is to be absorbed by junctions lower in the vertical stack.

The second cell is intimately integrated with the first solar cell by way of the first isolator layer . For instance the first isolator layer can be positioned on the second solar cell and the first solar cell can be stacked thereon and integrated with the second solar cell by way of for instance bonding techniques. With more specificity the second cell comprises an n InGaP window and contact layer an n GaAs emitter layer a p GaAs base layer a p AlGaAs BSF layer and a p GaAs contact layer . A bottom surface of the p GaAs contact layer can be substantially planar. Additionally a top surface of the InGaP window and contact layer can be substantially planar such that minimal air gaps are located between the p InGaP contact layer of the first cell the isolator layer and the n InGaP window and contact layer of the second cell . As noted above a bandgap of n InGaP is greater than or equal to the bandgap of the absorbing layers of the first cell also InGaP . It is again to be noted that within the second solar cell other materials can be used for the various window and contacting layers provided that such materials meet the specifications of the cell design and allow for light to be transmitted through the cell structure in such a way that light is only absorbed within the junction and not within the window and contacting layers.

The third cell comprises an n InAlGaAs window and contact layer an n InGaAs emitter layer a p InGaAs base layer a p InGaAsP BSF layer and a p InGaAs contact layer . A top surface of n InAlGaAs window and contact layer can be substantially planar such that minimal air gaps are located between the P GaAs contact layer of the second cell the second isolator layer and the n InAlGaAs window and contact layer of the third cell . Bandgaps of the n InAlGaAs window and contact layer and the p GaAs contact layer are greater than or equal to the bandgap of the absorbing layers of the second cell GaAs . Therefore solar radiation at wavelengths not absorbed by an absorbing layer can reach lower cells in the vertical stack. Further while not shown the MEM PV cell can be structured similar to the structure shown in such that the first cell the second cell and the third cell can be independently contacted at the exterior of the MEM PV cell . It is again to be noted that within the third solar cell other materials can be used for the various window and contacting layers provided that such materials meet the specifications of the cell design and allow for the light to be transmitted through the cell structure in such a way that light is only absorbed within the junction and not within the window and contacting layers.

Table 1 set forth below illustrates exemplary metal stacks that can be employed with the contact layers shown in to achieve low resistance ohmic contacts. It is to be understood that such metal stacks are not an exclusive set of metal stacks that can be employed.

With reference now to an exemplary methodology is illustrated and described. While the methodology is described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodology is not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

Referring now to a methodology that facilitates producing a MEM PV cell is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at a plurality of cells is produced wherein the plurality of cells include cells of different type e.g. different absorbing materials . At least one cell in the plurality of cells has a contact layer composed of a material with a high bandgap compared to bandgaps conventionally employed in multi junction cells.

At the plurality of cells is bonded into a vertical stack such as for example through wafer bonding. The plurality of cells is arranged in the vertical stack such that semiconductor materials that are configured to absorb solar radiation are positioned in the vertical stack in decreasing order such that materials with higher bandgaps are positioned above materials with lower bandgaps. At least one cell has a contact layer that is selected such that the bandgap of the material of the contact layer is higher than or equal to the lowest bandgap associated with a semiconductor material used to form an absorbing junction above the contact layer in the vertical stack. At each of the plurality of cells is removed from a respective wafer through any suitable technique such as epitaxial liftoff. At metallization is undertaken to cause p and n sides of each cell to be accessible such that each cell in the vertical stack is independently contactable. The methodology completes at .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

