---

title: Reconfigurable memristor-based computing logic
abstract: An apparatus for reconfigurable computing logic implemented by an innovative memristor based computing architecture. The invention employs a decoder to select memristor devices whose ON/OFF impedance state will determine the reconfigurable logic output. Thus, the resulting circuit design can be electronically configured and re-configured to implement any multi-input/output Boolean logic computing functionality. Moreover, the invention retains its configured logic state without the application of a current or voltage source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08427203&OS=08427203&RS=08427203
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08427203
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of a provisional application Ser. No. 61 463 957 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Feb. 25 2011.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of electronic circuit design. More specifically this invention relates to electronic circuits which have a reprogrammable function. More specifically still the present invention relates to reprogrammable electronic circuits which can function as reconfigurable logic circuits.

Reconfigurable computing logic describes the ability to transform the functionally of a Boolean function from let us say a logic AND gate to a logic OR gate functionality without physical rewiring and vice versa. Today this type of logic reconfiguration is not possible as the operational functionality of transistors resistors capacitors and inductors is fixed and electronically unchangeable. However there exists a new electronic device whose impedance state is electronically variable and non volatile. The name of such device is the memristor. The electronic operational and behavioral characteristics of memristor devices have been reported recently in the literature by the authors 2 . Pino and Bohl have described mathematically that memristors can operate within a range of impedance states bounded by a maximum R and minimum. R resistance values. The switching characteristics of the memristor devices between their ON and OFF states Rand R are governed by discrete threshold voltages Vand V that switch the device ON and OFF respectively 1 . In addition the memristor device whose name stands for memory resistor is of particular interest because it is a passive device that when power is turned off it remembers its previous impedance state 3 4 5 .

Digital computing architectures that can reconfigure computing logic to transform the functionality of a Boolean function are known in the prior art. However for these methods to be effective they would require one or more of the following a high degree scalability non volatile memory reconfiguration of the logic functions that is not reliant on software control and external memory.

In a context of circuitry and computing logic as utilized herein the term scalable alone or in combination means the capability of a circuit to handle an increased demand of work in a graceful manner.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 439 766 B2 to Schmit et al. discloses a method for a configurable logic circuit capable of performing different logic functions on the input data to produce output data. By having at least two configuration data sub sets configuring a logic circuit is achievable. This method has the disadvantage however in that it is not scalable it relies upon software to reconfigure the logic functions and it requires external memory because the memory element in its FPGA is volatile.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 545 013 B2 to Sugahara et at discloses a method to provide a non volatile reconfigurable logic circuit. Reconfiguration of the logic function is achieved by varying the driving force of the transistors through the control of the magnetization state of the spin transistors. Non volatility is achieved because the magnetization states do not change when the power is cut off. The logic circuit reconfigures logic functions in terms of hardware and therefore the use of software is not required for reconfiguration. This method has the disadvantage however in that it does not scale.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 796 423 B2 to Sugiyama et at discloses a method to perform complex logic functions in a reconfigurable logic circuit. Non volatility is achieved by using spin MOSFETs metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor because they contain non volatile magnetic memory. Use of an external memory is not required. This method has the disadvantage however in that it does not scale and it requires software to reconfigure logic functions.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 851 877 B2 to Tanaka et at discloses a method to reconfigure logic functions in a non volatile manner by changing the magnetization direction of the single electron spin transistor. No external memory is required. This method also has the disadvantage in that it does not scale.

Non Patent Reference to Rajendran et al. discloses a method of implementing all 2 input and 3 input Boolean functions by varying the values of the inputs for the memristor device. This method does not require external memory. This method has the disadvantage however in that it uses current mirror circuits which continuously consume current rendering this method not scalable and it requires software to choose the optimal memristance value.

Non Patent Reference to Xia et al. discloses a method of wiring logic gates using memristors in a FPGA like circuit. By using memristors non volatility can be achieved. This method has the disadvantage however in that it does not scale it requires software to reconfigure the logic functions and the reconfiguration of the logic function is not optimal in that the selection of a logic function is based on the path taken from the wiring of the logic gates.

What is lacking in the prior art therefore is computing logic circuitry that is capable of being electronically reconfigured to perform various Boolean functions in a scalable fashion and that will retain its reconfigured state in the absence of applied current or voltage.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for computing logic that can be electrically reconfigured to perform any one of several boolean operations.

It is another object of the present invention then to provide an apparatus for electrically reconfigurable computing logic that employs fundamental building block structure for a high order of scalability.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for electrically reconfigurable computing logic that will maintain its reconfigured state in the absence of supply power or power consumption.

Briefly stated the present invention provides an apparatus for reconfigurable computing logic implemented by an innovative memristor based computing architecture. The invention employs a decoder to select memristor devices whose ON OFF impedance state will determine the reconfigurable logic output. Thus the resulting circuit design can be configured and re configured electronically to implement any multi input output Boolean logic computing functionality. Moreover the invention retains its configured logic state without the application of a current or voltage source.

A fundamental embodiment of the present invention comprises a decoder having at least one input and at least two outputs at least one power reconfigure block at least two programmable resistance blocks and at least one logic output block. A signal applied to an input of the decoder is decoded and applied as an input to any of at least two programmable resistance blocks according to a decoding scheme. A signal output from any of the same at least two programmable resistance blocks in response to the aforesaid applied signal into any of the same at least two programmable resistance blocks is input into the at least one output block. The at least one logic output block corrects the voltage and logic state of the reconfigurable computing logic output and the at least one power reconfigure block powers the reconfigurable computing logic so as to selectively direct a voltage and current to reprogram any of the at least two programmable resistance blocks.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention provides an apparatus and method for implementing a reconfigurable computing logic circuit based upon the reprogrammable properties of memristors.

The present invention comprises of several key features. Referring to depicts a basic embodiment of the present invention. A digital binary decoder is used to take multiple inputs and select a single output out of multiple combinations. A binary decoder which has an n bit binary input code and a one activated output out of 2output code is called a binary decoder and it is used when it is necessary to activate exactly one of its 2outputs based on an n bit input value 6 . The remaining elements of the present invention s computing architecture design components generally comprise n and p channel field effect transistors resistors and inverting logic gates in various quantities and configurations.

Still referring to describes one basic embodiment of the present invention comprising a single binary input reconfigurable inverting non inverting logic gate. The function of node Vis to deliver a power to the circuit. Node Vdelivers the threshold voltages required to switch the memristors M and M ON OFF. Node K is the select I O to operate configure the reconfigurable logic gate respectively. From it is apparent that when for example the decoder input is 0 the decoder will select the output line A . This means that the output of the decoder will be A 1 and A 0. In this instance the gate of n channel transistor T will be selected turning the transistor to the ON state. Similarly n channel transistor T will remain in the OFF state as the output of to A is currently 0. Assuming the signal at node K 0 for operation of the logic gate the p channel transistors T and T will be on their ON state while the n channel transistors will be in the OFF state. Thus when K 0 Vwill be connected to the drain terminal of transistors T and T . Also the memristors M and M will be connected to ground through the p channel transistor T . This biasing scheme will allow the Vnode to be connected in series with resistor R and in parallel with transistors T and T in turn whose source terminals are connected to memristors M and M respectively.

Still referring to and assuming that we can neglect the channel resistance for all transistors T through T the voltage across memristors M and M respectively is given by the following two equations 

From the electronic properties of memristor devices 2 it can be correctly assumed that memristor impedance variations can range from R 100 up to R 2 000 . For an R resistance value of 250 the voltage across the memristor can vary from V M R 0.29 V up to V M R 0.89 V. Then since A 1 and K 0 both the n and p channel transistors T and T will be on the ON state respectively. This will allow the voltage at the input of the inverting circuit Inv to range between 0.29 and 0.89 V. The function of the inverter circuit as the name suggests is to invert the value input to it. For example if the input to the inverter is 0 the output will be 1 and vice versa. In addition an ideal inverter circuit can be described by a sigmoid threshold function in which the threshold for determining the output of the circuit corresponds to half the operating voltage. Thus for the inverter circuit to output 1 V the input voltage needs to be below 0.5 V. If the operating voltage is 1 V and if the output of the inverter is to be 0 V the input to the inverter circuit needs to be above 0.5 V. However the voltage range across the memristor is from 0.29 to 0.89 V. Therefore when the voltage across the memristor is 0.29 V the output of inverter Inv will be 1 V and when the input is 0.89 V. the output of inverter Inv will be 0 V. Given that the output of the first inverter Inv will output the complement of computing logic function a second inverter Inv is used to correct the logic output. In summary shows all the possible combinations in which the various ON OFF memristor values combinations will reconfigure the logic output of the single binary input reconfigurable inverting non inverting logic gate depicted in . If we look closely at the logic circuit in and the results in it is evident that there is one memristor for each decoder output and the output is directly proportional to the state of the memristor connected to it. Thus the overall output of the logic circuit depends on a single memristor device that is chosen through the decoder and the state of any other memristor can be ignored as shown in . In the n channel transistors T and T are used to decouple the unselected memristor as the voltage of each unselected decoder output is 0 V. shows the circuit logic configuration for the logic circuit design in necessary to exhibit the logic properties of the inverter circuit.

Finally configuration i.e. programming the resistance of memristors M and M to achieve logic reconfiguration of the overall logic circuit can be performed with memristors M and M in circuit . Specifically when the node K is set to 1 V in the logic circuit schematic design shown in it will cause the n channel transistor T to turn ON and the p channel transistors T T T and T to turn OFF. Thus a direct path from node Vto ground is now established and node Vis isolated. Now that the memristor is connected directly to ground node Vcan be used to apply the specific voltage value to switch the memristor device from ON to OFF state and vice versa. Also only one memristor can be reconfigured at a time and the memristor that can be reconfigured corresponds to the selected by the output of the decoder.

Selecting decoder output A turns on T and with K 1 volt turns on T and T thereby allowing current from Vr to flow through T M T and T to ground so as to program M but not M . Similarly selecting decoder output A turns on T and with K 1 volt turns on T and T thereby allowing current from Vr to flow through T M T and T to ground so as to program M but not M . Thus any particular logic function can be configured one memristor at a time.

Referring to the present invention is capable of being scaled up in complexity from the basic logic function performed in . In scaling the reconfigurable logic computing architecture of this invention defined cell blocks can be used to simplify the circuit schematic. Still referring to the cell block diagram PwRr is used to power and reconfigure the logic MBMn represents the nth memristor element and AMPn the nth output of the reconfigurable logic circuit.

Referring to depicts a simplified block cell single binary input reconfigurable circuit logic design using the defined cell blocks of as applied to the circuit of .

Referring to depicts further scaling of the present invention using the defined cell blocks of combined with a multi input decoder to enable a two input one output computing logic function. and depict how a memristor configuration can be set to enable the two input one output logic circuit to exhibit the characteristic properties of an AND and XOR computing logic functionalities respectively.

Refering to and depict how multi input multi output reconfigurable logic functions can be designed by increasing the decoder s input output capacity adding MBM memristor cell blocks PwRr and AMP cell block circuitry. In particular shows how a multi output logic function can be designed by adding an additional PwRr and AMP cell block circuitry for each additional desired output.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

