---

title: Dynamically modifying an electronic article based on commentary
abstract: In one general aspect, a computer-readable storage medium can be configured to store instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of a computer system to perform a process. The process can include receiving from a user account an indicator of a request for an electronic article hosted at an article host, and receiving an indicator of a location within the electronic article targeted for placement of at least a portion of a comment within the electronic article. The process can also include processing, in response to the indicator of the request, a plurality of comments associated with the electronic article and posted via a plurality of user accounts, and placing, based on the processing and before the electronic article is served, at least a portion of a comment from the plurality of comments at the location to customize the electronic article for the user account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256343&OS=09256343&RS=09256343
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09256343
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120514
---
This description relates to dynamically modifying an electronic article based on commentary. Electronic articles can be hosted by for example an article host e.g. a webserver and are relatively static in their presentation. Although some aspects of electronic articles such as font size pagination and so forth may be customizable the electronic articles may remain relatively static and un personalized. Some electronic articles are configured so that various users reading the electronic articles can comment on the electronic articles but these comments may be appended to the end or after the text of the electronic article so that they are not readily consumed e.g. viewed by readers of the electronic article in a desirable fashion. Even if the comments related to the electronic article are accessed many of the comments may not be relevant to the electronic article or may include undesirable subject matter to some readers. Also the comments may be posted in chronological order so that only the most recent comments may be readily viewed by a reader of the electronic article. Thus a need exists for systems methods and apparatus to address the shortfalls of present technology and to provide other new and innovative features.

In one general aspect a computer readable storage medium can be configured to store instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of a computer system to perform a process. The process can include receiving from a user account an indicator of a request for an electronic article hosted at an article host and receiving an indicator of a location within the electronic article targeted for placement of at least a portion of a comment within the electronic article. The process can also include processing in response to the indicator of the request a plurality of comments associated with the electronic article and posted via a plurality of user accounts and placing based on the processing and before the electronic article is served at least a portion of a comment from the plurality of comments at the location to customize the electronic article for the user account. Other aspects can be implemented in corresponding system methods and apparatus.

In some implementations wherein the indicator of the location is identified within a user preference. In some implementations the comment is a first comment the location is associated with a portion of the electronic article identified as having a first opinion. The process can include identifying a location associated with a portion of the electronic article as having a second opinion different from the first opinion and selecting at least a portion of a second comment from the plurality of comments for placement at the location associated with the portion of the electronic article identified as having a second opinion. In some implementations a comment is excluded from the plurality of comments based on at least one word included in the comment.

In some implementations the processing is performed based on natural language processing techniques. The process can include identifying the location within the electronic article based on the processing of the electronic article and producing the indicator of the location in response to the identifying. In some implementations the at least the portion of the comment is placed based on a size of the at least the portion of the comment. In some implementations the indicator of the request is received at a time and at least the portion of the comment is placed based on the comment being posted with a threshold time of the time. In some implementations the indicator of the request is received at a time and at least the portion of the comment is placed based on the comment being posted with a threshold time period from the time. In some implementations the process can include triggering replacement of the at least the portion of the comment at the location after the electronic article has been served.

In another general aspect a method can include receiving at an article modification module operating a computing device a plurality of requests for an electronic article and receiving an indicator of a location within the electronic article for placement of at least a portion of a comment within the electronic article. The method can include processing a first comment from a plurality of comments associated with the electronic article and processing a second comment from the plurality of comments associated with the electronic article. The method can also include placing at a first time and in response to a request from the plurality of requests the first comment from the plurality of comments at the location based on the processing of the first comment and can include selecting at a second time the second comment from the plurality of comments for placement at the location based on the processing of the second comment. Other aspects can be implemented in corresponding system apparatus and computer program products.

In some implementations the processing associated with the first comment and the processing associated with the second comment are performed before the receiving of the request from the plurality of requests. In some implementations the second comment is posted after the first time and the processing the second comment is performed after the first time. In some implementations the request is a first request from the plurality of requests the first request from the plurality of requests is received before the first time and from a first user account and a second request from the plurality of requests is received before the second time and from a second user account.

In some implementations the placing at the first time is performed before the electronic article is served in response to the request from the plurality of requests. In some implementations the processing associated with the first comment includes matching subject matter of the first comment with subject matter of the electronic article adjacent to the location. In some implementations the method can include sending the electronic article after the placing of the first comment and triggering replacement of the first comment by the second comment after the sending.

In yet another general aspect an apparatus can include an article modification module configured to identify a location within an electronic article for placement of at least a portion of a plurality of comments associated with the electronic article where the location is associated with a viewpoint. The apparatus can include an article handler configured to receive a request to access the electronic article after the location within the electronic article has been identified. The apparatus can also include a commentary processor configured to process in response to the receiving the request a viewpoint associated with a comment from the plurality of comments. The apparatus can also include a commentary selection module configured to select the comment from the plurality of comments based on the viewpoint of the comment aligning with the viewpoint associated with the location. Other aspects can be implemented in corresponding system methods and computer program products.

In some implementations the location is a first location the viewpoint is a first viewpoint and the comment is a first comment the article modification module is configured to identify a second location associated with a second viewpoint opposing the first viewpoint. The commentary selection module can be configured to select a second comment from the plurality of comments based on a viewpoint of the second comment aligning with the second viewpoint associated with the second location. In some implementations the comment is a first comment and a second comment from the plurality of comments is excluded from selection based on content included in the second comment.

In some implementations the commentary selection module is configured to compare the viewpoint of the comment with the viewpoint associated with the location before the selecting and configured to insert the comment from the plurality of comments in the electronic article at the location after the selecting. The apparatus can include a commentary placement module configured to trigger sending of the electronic article. In some implementations the plurality of comments is a first plurality of comments and the commentary selection module is configured to select the first plurality of comments from a second plurality of comments based on a time window. In some implementations the portion of the plurality of comments is associated with an interaction portion.

These and other aspects may provide one or more of the following advantages. One or more portions of commentary can be placed within an electronic article so that the one or more portions of the commentary can be viewed within the electronic article by a user of the electronic article. Various portions of comments can be included in an electronic article so that subsequent readers of the electronic article can have the benefit of the comments of other readers of the electronic article. In some implementations various portions of the comments can be included in an electronic article so that the electronic article can be customized for a particular reader of the electronic article. Different portions of commentary can be dynamically placed into an electronic article at different locations for different readers of the electronic article. In some implementations different portions of commentary can be placed in an electronic article for even the same user requesting the electronic article at different times.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In some implementations because the computing device Q is the device through which the electronic article is being requested the computing device Q can be referred to as a requesting device. In some implementations a user not shown of the computing device Q can be referred to as a reader or viewer of the electronic article . In some implementations the computing device Q can be referred to as a commentary producing device because the computing device Q is the device through which the portion of the commentary is produced. In some implementations a user not shown of the computing device Q can be referred to as an author of the portion of the commentary .

For example the electronic article can be sent from the article host to the computing device Q for viewing at the computing device Q in response to a request triggered by a user via a user account of the computing device Q. The user can produce a comment about the electronic article that is associated with e.g. appended to appended after text of the electronic article as the portion of the commentary via the computing device Q. In some embodiments the comment can be associated with the electronic article via a social network associated through a link and or so forth. After the portion of the commentary has been associated with the electronic article the electronic article can be requested for viewing at the computing device Q. In response to the request for viewing at the computing device Q the electronic article and or the commentary can be sent to the article modification module . The electronic article can be modified with the portion of the commentary and the modified electronic article can be sent e.g. served to the computing device Q for viewing by a user via a user account of the computing device Q. Thus the modified electronic article with the portion of the commentary placed e.g. inserted embedded therein can be viewed by the user at the computing device Q. In some implementations if the electronic article is requested for viewing by an additional computing device not shown the article modification module can be configured to place the portion of the commentary or a different portion not shown of the commentary in the electronic article for viewing by a user of the additional computing device.

One or more portions of the commentary can be placed within the electronic article so that the one or more portions of the commentary can be viewed within the electronic article by a consumer e.g. a user of the electronic article . For example the electronic article can be an electronic news article about a sporting event. Multiple readers of the electronic article can post one or more comments about the sporting event which become part of the commentary posted after the electronic article . The article modification module can be configured to include e.g. insert embed various portions of the comments into the electronic article so that subsequent readers of the electronic news article can have the benefit of the comments e.g. contrary or concurring comments of other readers of the electronic article . In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to include e.g. insert embed various portions of the comments into the electronic article so that the electronic article can be customized for a particular reader of the electronic article . In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to dynamically place different portions of the commentary into the electronic article at different locations for different readers of the electronic news article. In some implementations different portions of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article for even the same user requesting the electronic article at different times. Thus the electronic article can be updated with different portions of the commentary for even the same user requesting the electronic article at different times. In some implementations dynamic processing can include processing in real time processing after a request for the electronic article has been sent processing during display of the electronic article and or so forth.

In some implementations the portion of the commentary can be or can include any type of commentary related to the electronic article . In some implementations the portion of the commentary can include for example one or more comments posted by one or more users at one or more times and appended to the end of the electronic article . In some implementations the portion of the commentary can be or can include a comment text e.g. words a character e.g. an alphanumeric character an image e.g. an emoticon a picture a symbol audio video a link e.g. a hyperlink and or so forth. For example the portion of the commentary can include a comment in support of a portion of the electronic article a comment opposing a portion of the electronic article a comment clarifying a portion of the electronic article and or so forth. In some implementations the portion of the commentary can also include an identifier of an entity e.g. a user who produced the portion of the commentary . In some implementations commentary or a portion thereof can be referred to as public commentary because the commentary or a portion thereof can be publicly posted in association with the electronic article .

In some implementations the commentary may be commentary associated with an electronic article different from electronic article . In some implementations the commentary can be associated with a newsfeed a social media application a social media network and or so forth. For example the commentary can be commentary publically posted at a website related to the electronic article or linked to the electronic article .

In some implementations the electronic article can be any type of electronic article. For example the electronic article can be a webpage a social media posting e.g. a posting to a user account associated with a social media application an electronic news article an electronic advertisement and or so forth.

In some implementations the portion of the commentary can be selected by the article modification module from the remaining portions of the commentary for placement e.g. insertion in the electronic article . For example if the commentary includes multiple comments associated with electronic article the article modification module can be configured to select a comment from the multiple comments for placement in the electronic article .

In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to process e.g. analyze interpret content of the portion of the commentary and can be configured to select the portion of the commentary for placement in e.g. insertion into at least a portion of the electronic article based on the processing. For example one or more natural language processing techniques keyword search technologies and or so forth can be used by the article modification module to process the content of the commentary and determine whether or not to place a portion of the commentary into the electronic article .

In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to dynamically determine whether or not to place the portion of the commentary into at least a portion of the electronic article . For example the portion of the commentary can be dynamically placed into the portion of the electronic article before e.g. just before or in response to the electronic article is sent e.g. served to the computing device Q for for example viewing.

In some implementations the portion of the commentary can be placed at a specified location within the electronic article . In some implementations the location can be referred to as an insertion location or as a placement location. In some implementations the location for placement of the portion of the commentary can be identified before the portion of the commentary is selected from the commentary . In other words the location for placement of one or more portions of the commentary can be a predefined location.

Although not shown in in some implementations multiple portions from the commentary can be placed in the electronic article . For example the portion of the commentary can be placed at a first location in the electronic article and another portion not shown of the commentary can be placed at a second location in the electronic article .

In some implementations a location within the electronic article for placement e.g. insertion of one or more portions of the commentary can be dynamically determined. In some implementations the location within the electronic article can be identified based on processing of e.g. an interpretation of a meaning of processing of content one or more portions of the electronic article and or one or more portions of the commentary . More details related to processing of commentary selection of locations for placement of at least a portion of commentary and or so forth are described below.

As shown in the electronic article and the commentary associated with the electronic article can be sent to one or more of the computing devices Q Q by the article host . In some implementations the article host can be configured to handle processing of requests to access e.g. to view to display the electronic article and the associated commentary . In some implementations electronic article can be included in a webpage. In such implementations the article host can function as a web server of the webpage.

Referring back to in some implementations the computing devices Q Q can each be for example a wireless device e.g. wi fi enabled device that includes wired components and can be for example a computing entity e.g. a personal computing device a server device e.g. a web server a tablet computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA and or so forth. The computing devices Q Q can be configured to operate based on one or more platforms e.g. one or more similar or different platforms that can include one or more types of hardware software firmware operating systems runtime libraries and or so forth.

In some implementations at least a portion of the functionality of the article modification module can be included in the computing device Q. Accordingly the portion of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article at the computing device Q. In some implementations the portion of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article before the electronic article which is modified with e.g. customized with the portion of commentary is presented e.g. displayed to a user of the computing device Q.

In some implementations at least a portion of the functionality of the article modification module can be included in the article host . Accordingly the portion of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article at the article host before the electronic article which is modified with the portion of commentary is sent to e.g. served to the computing device Q.

In some implementations the article modification module can be or can be associated with e.g. included in a social media application not shown . The social media application can be any type of application e.g. a smartphone application a stand alone application that can be used by a user to share content and or other information with a network of users e.g. friends relatives colleagues business associates associated with the user. In some implementations the social media application can be a web based application that can be accessed by users. In some implementations the social media application can be referred to as a social media system and can be part of a social media platform. In some implementations the social media application can be associated with a social network service. In some implementations the social media application can be a collaborative environment through which one or more users such as a sharer and or a consumer e.g. user of content can engage in collaborative work. In some implementations the social media application can include one or more search engines social network services forums instant messaging chat applications virtual environments peer to peer communications applications and or so forth. In some implementations the social media application can include or can be based on one or more open application programming interfaces APIs .

In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to operate at a host device such as the article host . In such implementations the article modification module can be accessed through a network by one or more devices such as computing devices Q Q which can function as client s to the article modification module which can be operating at a host . Accordingly the functionality of the article modification module can be called and or executed on an on demand basis. In some implementations the article modification module can function as a background application. In some implementations the article modification module can function as an application or service that can be accessed via an application programming interface API .

As shown in the article processor includes an article handler . The article handler can be configured to receive an indicator that the electronic article has been requested. Specifically the article handler can be configured to receive an indicator that the electronic article has been requested by the computing device . In some implementations the indicator that the electronic article has been requested can be produced in response to at least a portion of the electronic article and or at least a portion of the commentary being received by the article modification module .

The article modification module can be configured to process a commentary placement indicator associated with the electronic article . In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can be referred to as a commentary placement parameter or as a commentary placement parameter value. In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can specify e.g. describe characterize one or more conditions e.g. constraints boundaries limitations for placement of at least a portion of the commentary in the electronic article . In other words the commentary placement indicator can specify one or more characteristics or attributes of at least a portion of the commentary targeted to be placed in the electronic article . In some implementations commentary or comments targeted for placement within the electronic article can be referred to as target commentary or as target comments .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can identify a location within the electronic article for placement of at least a portion of the commentary e.g. one or more of the comments Y through YN or portions thereof . The location within the electronic article for placement of at least a portion of the commentary can be with respect to any portion of the electronic article such as for example in a textual portion e.g. a paragraph a heading a title of the electronic article between textual portions of the electronic article before after or within an image included in the electronic article and or so forth. Although shown as being embedded in the electronic article in in some implementations the commentary placement indicator can be otherwise associated with the electronic article e.g. included as metadata with the electronic article . For example the commentary placement indicator can be a textual indicator an icon a flag an HTML indicator an instruction and or so forth that can be embedded within the electronic article to identify a location within the electronic article for placement of at least a portion of the commentary . As a specific example the commentary placement indicator can be a textual indicator or an icon that can be embedded within the electronic article between two paragraphs of the electronic article specifying a location for placement of at least a portion of the commentary . Although not shown in multiple commentary placement indicators similar to commentary placement indicator can be associated with the electronic article .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can indicate a size of at least a portion of the commentary to be placed e.g. targeted to be placed within the electronic article . For example commentary placement indicator can indicate that at least a portion of the commentary less than a specified number of characters or greater than a specified number of characters may be placed at a specified location within the electronic article .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can indicate a temporal condition for at least a portion of the commentary to be placed e.g. targeted to be placed within the electronic article . For example the commentary placement indicator can indicate that at least a portion of the commentary produced during a specified time frame e.g. a specified time window a threshold period of time after a specified date and or time and so forth may be placed within the electronic article .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can indicate specific information to be included in at least a portion of the commentary selected for placement within the electronic article . For example commentary placement indicator can indicate that a comment including a specific word e.g. keyword or phrase can be selected or may not be selected for placement within the electronic article . Accordingly a portion of the commentary can include information in accordance with a condition or characteristic specified within the commentary placement indicator .

In some implementations the comments Y through YN can be considered a pool of comments or target pool of comments from which a comment can be selected for placement in the electronic article . Thus at least a portion of the commentary can function as a pool of commentary from which a portion can be selected for placement in the electronic article .

In some implementations at least a portion of the comments Y through YN can be excluded from a pool of comments from which a comment or a portion thereof can be selected for placement within the electronic article . In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can indicate that a particular comment should be excluded from a pool of comments if the particular comment has or does not have a particular characteristic. For example comment Y can be excluded from or alternatively included in a pool of comments from which a comment can be selected for placement in the electronic article because the comment Y includes a particular word was defined at a specified time or during a time period is longer than a specified length and or so forth.

In some implementations at least a portion of the commentary can be evaluated based on quality. For example the commentary can be processed by the commentary processor to identify and exclude portions of the commentary e.g. from a pool of comments that have spelling and or grammatical errors are identified as being related to spam and or so forth. In some implementations one or more quality thresholds e.g. quality criteria error thresholds can be specified within the commentary placement indicator . In some implementations approval e.g. likes and or disapproval of a portion of the commentary by other users other than the author of the portion of the commentary can be used to evaluate the quality or lack of quality of the portion of the commentary .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can specify a certain number of comments to be placed within the electronic article . For example the commentary placement indicator can indicate that less than a certain number of comments or more than a certain number of comments are to be or can be placed within a particular location within the electronic article .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can indicate a characteristic of a user account e.g. an authoring user account associated with at least a portion of the commentary to be placed within the electronic article . The commentary placement indicator for example can indicate that a comment may or may not be placed within the electronic article based on a user account e.g. a specific authorship associated with the comment. For example comment Y can be posted by a first user e.g. an author via a first user account within a social network of a second user e.g. a reader of the computing device through which the electronic article is requested . The comment Y may or may not be placed in the electronic article based on the relationship e.g. a friend relationship a business relationship a family relationship of the first user e.g. an author and the second user e.g. a reader within the social network of the second user. The relationship required for the comment Y to be selected for placement in the electronic article can be specified within or by the commentary placement indicator .

In some implementations the commentary placement indicator can indicate content of at least a portion of the commentary to be placed e.g. targeted to be placed within the electronic article . For example the commentary placement indicator can indicate that a comment having content supporting opposing having a particular type of opinion or viewpoint and or so forth is to be placed within the electronic article . As a specific example the commentary placement indicator can indicate that at least a portion of the commentary to be placed e.g. targeted to be placed within the electronic article should include content supporting an opinion of a paragraph of the electronic article . Accordingly if one of comments Y through YN includes content supporting the opinion of the paragraph the comment can be placed in the electronic article .

As shown in the commentary processor includes a commentary selection module . The commentary selection module can be configured to select at least a portion of the commentary e.g. one or more of the comments Y through YN or a portion thereof for placement within the electronic article . In some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to select at least a portion of the commentary for placement within the electronic article based on one or more conditions e.g. constraints boundaries limitations characteristics specified by the commentary placement indicator .

In some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to process any portion of the commentary to select a portion of the commentary for placement in the electronic article . For example in some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to process one or more portions of the commentary based on natural language processing techniques keyword matching and or so forth. As a specific example the commentary placement indicator can indicate that a comment having a particular opinion type of content and or supporting a particular proposition within the electronic article is to be placed in the electronic article . The commentary selection module can be configured to process comment Y based on natural language processing techniques to determine whether or not comment Y has the particular opinion type of content and or supports the particular proposition within the electronic article . If the comment Y has the particular opinion type of content and or supports the particular proposition within the electronic article the comment Y can be selected by the commentary selection module for placement within the electronic article .

In some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to process any portion of the commentary to select a portion of the commentary for placement in the electronic article to clarify ambiguous statements and or facts. For example in some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to process one or more portions of the commentary based on natural language processing techniques keyword matching and or so forth to identify an ambiguous statement and or fact. The commentary selection module can be configured to process comment Y based on natural language processing techniques to determine whether or not comment Y may clarify the ambiguous statement and or fact.

Although not explicitly shown in combinations of commentary placement indicators such as commentary placement indicator can be used by the commentary selection module to select at least a portion of the commentary for placement within the electronic article . For example a first commentary placement indicator can specify a time window for at least a portion of the commentary to be placed in the electronic article and a second commentary placement indicator can specify a type of content to be placed in the electronic article. Accordingly the commentary selection module can be configured to select at least a portion of the commentary e.g. one or more of comments Y through YN for placement in the electronic article based on the first commentary placement indicator and based on the second commentary placement indicator. As another example a first commentary placement indicator can specify a maximum number of comments for placement in the electronic article and a second commentary placement indicator can specify a location for placement of at least a portion of the commentary in the electronic article. Accordingly at least a portion of the commentary e.g. one or more of comments Y through YN can be selected by the commentary selection module for placement in the electronic article based on the first commentary placement indicator and based on the second commentary placement indicator.

In some implementations if at least a portion of the commentary does not satisfy or match one or more commentary placement indicators such as commentary placement indicator associated with the electronic article none of the commentary may be placed within the electronic article . In other words if at least a portion of the commentary does not match with e.g. does not have a characteristic or attribute that matches with one or more commentary placement indicators such as commentary placement indicator associated with the electronic article none of the commentary may be placed within the electronic article . In some implementations at least a portion of commentary can be placed within the electronic article if the portion of the commentary satisfies e.g. matches less than all but more than a threshold number of characteristics identified by a set of commentary placement indicators.

In some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to identify several portions of the commentary that satisfy e.g. match meet one or more commentary placement indicators such as commentary placement indicator associated with the electronic article . In some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to select a first match of the commentary for placement in the electronic article . In other words a portion of the commentary that is identified as satisfying one or more commentary placement indicators e.g. a threshold number of commentary placement indicators all of the commentary placement indicators associated with the electronic article can be selected by the commentary selection module for placement in the electronic article . As a specific example several commentary placement indicators associated with the electronic article can target a portion of the commentary that is produced by a specified set of user accounts e.g. a set of user accounts within a social network of a requesting user defined within a threshold time period and excludes specified words. A portion of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article because the portion of the commentary satisfies each of these criteria even though other portions of the commentary may also satisfy each of these criteria. In some implementations the portion of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article because the portion of the commentary is processed before the other portions of the commentary are processed e.g. would be processed or are scheduled for processing . In some implementations further processing of the commentary may be terminated in response to at least one portion of the commentary satisfying criteria associated with the commentary placement indicator.

In some implementations the commentary selection module can be configured to rank order several portions of the commentary that satisfy one or more commentary placement indicators such as commentary placement indicator associated with the electronic article . In some implementations the rank ordering can be based on relevance or a degree of matching to the commentary placement indicators. For example a first portion of the commentary that has a relatively high ranking e.g. high ranking value can be placed at a location within the electronic article instead of a second portion of the commentary that has a relatively low ranking e.g. low ranking value . In some implementations rank ordering of portions of the commentary can be based on one or more weight factors e.g. weight values associated with one or more commentary placement indicators. For example a match of a first portion of the commentary with a criteria described within a first commentary placement indicator can have a greater weight within a ranking of the portion of the commentary than a match of a second portion of the commentary with the criteria described within a second commentary placement indicator.

As shown in the commentary processor includes a commentary placement module . The commentary placement module is configured to include e.g. place insert at least a portion of the commentary in the electronic article after the portion of the commentary has been selected by the commentary selection module e.g. selected based on the commentary placement indicator . In some implementations commentary placement module can be configured to place or trigger placement of at least a portion of the commentary in the electronic article before electronic article is served to e.g. sent to the computing device which is functioning as a requesting device . After the commentary placement module places or triggers placement of the portion of the commentary in electronic article the commentary placement module can be configured to trigger sending of the electronic article to the computing device .

For example a request for the electronic article can be sent from the computing device to the article host . An indicator of the request can be received at the article modification module . The article modification module can be configured to place comment Y from the commentary in the electronic article in accordance with the commentary placement indicator or another commentary placement indicator not shown . The article modification module can be configured to place or trigger placement of the comment Y from the commentary in the electronic article before electronic article is sent e.g. is served from the article host to the computing device .

In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to dynamically include at least a portion of the commentary in the electronic article after the electronic article has been served to the computing device in response to a request for the electronic article . For example a request for the electronic article can be sent from the computing device to the electronic host . In response to the request electronic article can be sent from the article host to the computing device . After the electronic article has been received at the computing device the article modification module can be configured to include comment Y from the commentary in the electronic article in accordance with the commentary placement indicator or another commentary placement indicator not shown . Accordingly the article modification module can be configured to include or trigger placement of the comment Y from the commentary in the electronic article after electronic article is sent e.g. is served from the article host to the computing device .

In some implementations multiple comments from the commentary can be streamed into e.g. dynamically updated within the electronic article even as the electronic article is being viewed at the computing device . In other words a first portion of the commentary in accordance with the commentary placement indicator can be placed or triggered to be placed in in the electronic article by the article modification module before or after electronic article is sent e.g. is served to the computing device . A second portion of the commentary in accordance with the commentary placement indicator can be placed in or triggered to be placed in the electronic article by the article modification module in addition to or in place of the first portion of the commentary as the electronic article is being viewed at the computing device .

As described above in some implementations at least a portion of the functionality of the article modification module can be included in the computing device and or the article host . Accordingly in some implementations the electronic article can be modified with at least a portion of the commentary at the computing device before the electronic article is presented e.g. displayed to a user of the computing device . As another example the electronic article can be modified with at least a portion of the commentary at the article host before the electronic article is sent to e.g. served to the computing device .

As shown in the article processor includes an article content processor . The article content processor is configured to process content of the electronic article to define one or more commentary placement indicators the same as or similar to commentary placement indicator . For example the article content processor can be configured to process a portion of an electronic article e.g. electronic article and can be configured to define a commentary placement indicator indicating that a comment may be placed in the electronic article at a specified location within the electronic article.

As a more specific example the article content processor can be configured to process content of a paragraph in an electronic article based on natural language processing techniques keyword analysis and or so forth to identify subject matter of the paragraph of the electronic article. The article content processor can be configured to define one or more commentary placement indicators indicating the subject matter of the paragraph and a location within the paragraph where at least a portion of commentary associated with the electronic article may be placed. In response to the electronic article being requested by a computing device for viewing the article modification module e.g. the commentary selection module can be configured to select e.g. selected based on processing of the commentary select based on matching keywords from the commentary with keywords indicated within the commentary placement indicator s and include at least a portion of the commentary associated with the electronic article in accordance with the commentary placement indicator s . The portion of the commentary can be placed in the electronic article by the commentary placement module before or after the electronic article is served to the computing device for viewing.

As shown in commentary placement indicators can be stored in a memory . The commentary placement indicators can be similar to or the same as the commentary placement indicator included in the electronic article . For example one or more of the commentary placement indicators can indicate a location for placement of a comment within the electronic article subject matter of a comment to be placed in the electronic article restrictions related to authorship of a comment to be placed in the electronic article and or so forth. In some implementations rather than being included in the electronic article the commentary placement indicator can be stored as one of the commentary placement indicators . In such implementations one or more of the commentary placement indicators can be associated with the electronic article and used to identify one or more portions of the commentary to be placed in the electronic article when served to the computing device .

As shown in user preferences can be stored in the memory . In some implementations placement of at least a portion of the commentary in the electronic article can be based on one or more user preferences . The user preferences can be related to a reader or requestor of the electronic article an author of the electronic article and or an author of at least a portion of the commentary related to the electronic article . For example one or more of the user preferences can have priority over one or more of commentary placement indicators e.g. commentary placement indicator commentary placement indicator . For example even though the commentary placement indicator can indicate that a comment less than a specified size is to be placed at a specified location within the electronic article the user preferences can indicate that a comment greater than the specified size and at a different location is to be placed within the electronic article . In such implementations the article modification module can be configured to select and include a comment in the electronic article in accordance with the user preferences rather than based on the commentary placement indicator .

In some implementations placement of at least a portion of a commentary in one or more electronic articles may not be performed e.g. may be prevented based on one or more the user preferences . In other words at least a portion of the functionality of the article modification module may not be used e.g. can be terminated based on one or more of the user preferences e.g. a user preference of a reader or requestor of the electronic article an author of the electronic article and or an author of at least a portion of the commentary related to the electronic article . As a specific example a particular comment may not be placed in an electronic article based on a preference of an author of the particular comment. In some implementations the preference can be stored as metadata associated with the comment. As another specific example a particular electronic article may not be processed for placement of at least a portion of the commentary or for placement of at least a portion of commentary in a particular location based on a preference of an author of the electronic article . In some implementations the preference can be stored as metadata or as a commentary placement indicator associated with the comment.

In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to operate at one or more computing devices e.g. computing device or another computing device that can each be for example a wired device and or a wireless device e.g. wi fi enabled device and can be for example a computing entity e.g. a personal computing device a server device e.g. a web server a mobile phone a touchscreen device a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop a tablet device e reader and or so forth. The computing device s can be configured to operate based on one or more platforms e.g. one or more similar or different platforms that can include one or more types of hardware software firmware operating systems runtime libraries and or so forth.

The article modification module can be configured to operate based on one or more platforms e.g. one or more similar or different platforms that can include one or more types of hardware software firmware operating systems runtime libraries and or so forth. In some implementations the article modification module can be configured to operate within a cluster of devices e.g. a server farm . In such an implementation the functionality and processing of the article modification module can be distributed to several devices of the cluster of devices.

The article modification module can be or can include any type of hardware and or software configured to process attributes. In some implementations one or more portions of the components shown in the article modification module in can be or can include a hardware based module e.g. a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a memory a firmware module and or a software based module e.g. a module of computer code a set of computer readable instructions that can be executed at a computer . For example in some implementations one or more portions of the article modification module can be or can include a software module configured for execution by at least one processor not shown . In some implementations the functionality of the components can be included in different modules and or different components than those shown in . For example although not shown the functionality of the commentary processor of the article modification module can be included in a different module than the commentary processor of the article modification module or divided into several different modules.

Although not shown in some implementations the article modification module or portions thereof can be configured to operate within for example a data center e.g. a cloud computing environment a computer system one or more server host devices and or so forth. In some implementations the article modification module or portions thereof can be configured to operate within a network. Thus the article modification module or portions thereof can be configured to function within various types of network environments that can include one or more devices and or one or more server devices. For example the network can be or can include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or so forth. The network can be or can include a wireless network and or wireless network implemented using for example gateway devices bridges switches and or so forth. The network can include one or more segments and or can have portions based on various protocols such as Internet Protocol IP and or a proprietary protocol. The network can include at least a portion of the Internet.

In some implementations the memory can be any type of memory such as a random access memory a disk drive memory flash memory and or so forth. In some implementations the memory can be implemented as more than one memory component e.g. more than one RAM component or disk drive memory associated with the article modification module . In some implementations the memory can be a database memory. In some implementations the memory can be or can include a non local memory. For example the memory can be or can include a memory shared by multiple devices not shown . In some implementations the memory can be associated with a server device not shown within a network and configured to serve the article modification module .

As shown in the commentary placement indicators include several criteria. In this implementation an article modification module is configured to select and include comment C at location X within paragraph P based on the commentary placement indicator . In some implementations the comment C can be placed in line within paragraph P. The comment C is selected by the article modification module because comment C as indicated by the commentary placement indicator has a length less than Y characters was produced within the last 2 days and has content aligned with or contrary to a first viewpoint of the electronic article . In some implementations subject matter of the paragraph P around e.g. adjacent to location X can be aligned with or contrary to the first viewpoint.

Also in this implementation an article modification module is configured to select and include comment A at location Y between paragraphs P and P based on the commentary placement indicator . The comment A is selected by the article modification module because comment A as indicated by the commentary placement indicator has a length greater than 0 was authored by a user within a social network of a requesting user and has content aligned with or contrary to a second viewpoint of the electronic article . In some implementations subject matter of the paragraph P or P around e.g. adjacent to location Y can be aligned with or contrary to the second viewpoint.

In some implementations the first viewpoint of the electronic article can be a contrary viewpoint to the second viewpoint of the electronic article . Accordingly the electronic article can include differing or polarized comments e.g. comments with different opinions or viewpoints at different locations within the electronic article .

As shown in an indicator of a request for an electronic article is received from a user account block . In some implementations the indicator of the request for the electronic article can be received by the article handler shown in . In some implementations the request for the electronic article can be produced by a requesting computing device via a user account of a requesting user .

An indicator of a location within the electronic article targeted for placement of at least a portion of a comment within the electronic article is received block . In some implementations the indicator of the location within the electronic article can be received by the commentary selection module shown in . In some implementations the indicator of the location can be specified within a commentary placement indicator e.g. commentary placement indicator . In some implementations the indicator of location within the electronic article can be identified by the article content processor shown in .

A plurality of comments appended to the electronic article and posted via a plurality of user accounts can be processed in response to the indicator of the request block . In some implementations the plurality of comments can be processed by the commentary selection module shown in . In some implementations at least a portion of the plurality of comments can be processed using for example natural language processing techniques keyword analysis and or so forth.

At least a portion of a comment from the plurality of comments is placed at the location to customize the electronic article for the user account based on the processing and before the electronic article is served block . In some implementations the article can be served to a requesting computing device. In some implementations the comment can be selected from the plurality of comments by the commentary selection module shown in . In some implementations the plurality of comments can be a pool of comments identified based on one or more criteria e.g. spelling criteria quality criteria commentary placement indicators . In some implementations a comment can be selected and placed within the electronic article after the electronic article is served to a requesting computing device.

As shown in a plurality of requests for an electronic article are received at an article modification module operating a computing device block . In some implementations the plurality of requests for the electronic article can be received by the article handler of the article modification module shown in . In some implementations the plurality of requests for the electronic article can be produced by a plurality of requesting computing devices via user accounts of requesting users .

An indicator of a location within the electronic article for placement of at least a portion of a comment within the electronic article is received block . In some implementations the indicator of the location within the electronic article can be received by the commentary selection module shown in . In some implementations the indicator of location can be specified within a commentary placement indicator e.g. commentary placement indicator . In some implementations the indicator of location within the electronic article can be identified by the article content processor shown in .

A first comment from a plurality of comments associated with the electronic article is processed block . Also a second comment from the plurality of comments associated with the electronic article is processed block . In some implementations the first comment and or the second comment can be processed by the commentary selection module shown in . In some implementations the first comment and or the second comment can be processed using for example natural language processing techniques keyword analysis and or so forth.

A first comment from the plurality of comments is placed at the location based on the processing of the first comment at a first time and in response to a request from the plurality of requests block . A second comment from the plurality of comments is selected for placement at the location based on the processing of the second comment at a second time block . In some implementations the first comment and the second comment can be placed at the location by the commentary placement module shown in .

In some implementations the request can be sent from a computing device and or a user account. The second comment can be selected in response to a second request from the plurality of requests and the second request can be sent from the same computing device and or the same user account. In such implementations the first comment can be dynamically replaced by e.g. updated with the second comment. In some implementations the first request and the second request can be sent from different computing devices and or different user accounts.

In some implementations the processing associated with the first comment and the processing associated with the second comment are performed before the receiving of the request from the plurality of requests. In some implementations the first comment and the second comment can be processed and or categorized for placement in response to requests for the electronic article as the requests are received.

Referring back to the article modification module includes a commentary interaction manager . The commentary interaction manager can be configured to handle interactions with the commentary after at least a portion of the commentary has been placed within the electronic article for consumption by a reader .

In some implementations at least a portion of the commentary that has been placed within the electronic article can include or can be associated with an interaction portion not shown also can be referred to as an interactive portion through which a reader of the electronic article can interact with the portion of the commentary . In some implementations the interaction portion can be managed by the commentary interaction manager . In some implementations the interaction portion can be or can include for example at least a portion of a user interface. In some implementations the interaction portion can be a type of user interface element.

In some implementations the commentary interaction manager can be configured to receive one or more indicators e.g. input values data produced via an interaction portion associated with at least a portion of the commentary placed in the electronic article . For example an interaction of a user e.g. reader with at least one of the interaction portions can be configured to trigger an input value that can be received by the commentary interaction manager . In some implementations the commentary interaction manager can be configured to process the input value or can be configured to trigger one or more functions to be performed by other modules e.g. commentary processor included in the article modification module .

One or more portions of the commentary when placed within the electronic article can be configured with e.g. can be associated with an interaction portion so that a reader of the portion s of the commentary can perform various functions such as modify portion s of the commentary manipulate portion s of the commentary and or so forth. The interaction portion or portions can be associated with a specific portion of the commentary or generally to several portions commentary . In some implementations the interaction portion can be used to permanently or temporarily modify one or more portions of the commentary for a later reader of the commentary placed within the electronic article . In some implementations one or more interaction portions can have one or more functions such as those described below e.g. can include a combination of one or more of the functions described below .

As a specific example one or more portions of the commentary when placed within the electronic article can be configured with e.g. can be associated with an interaction portion so that a reader of the portion s of the commentary can add information e.g. data comments to the portion s of the commentary that is placed within the electronic article to the electronic article and or a portion of the commentary not placed within the electronic article . In some implementations the information added to the portion s of the commentary can be additional commentary. In some implementations additional commentary can be added to the commentary that is linked to e.g. electronically linked to for example comment Y via an interaction portion.

As another specific example if comment Y is placed within the electronic article for consumption by a reader the comment Y can be associated with an interaction portion that functions as an element through which a reader of the comment Y can post an indicator of an opinion e.g. approval e.g. a like disapproval e.g. a dislike apathy etc. to the comment Y. The indicator of the opinion can be stored and displayed for later readers of the comment Y.

As yet another specific example if comment Y is placed within the electronic article for consumption by a reader the comment Y can be associated with an interaction portion that functions as an element through which a reader can trigger replacement of comment Y with another portion of the commentary . The comment Y can be placed within the electronic article based on one or more criteria. The reader can trigger the comment Y to be replaced with the comment YN in response to actuation of for example a user interface element e.g. a virtual button associated with the interaction portion. In some implementations the comment YN can be the next best or similar comment for placement in the electronic article based on the one or more criteria used to select comment Y for placement in the electronic article . In other words the comment YN can be a comment that would have been placed within the electronic article had comment Y not been a better match for placement within the electronic article than the comment YN. The comment YN can be rank ordered as the next best comment for placement in the electronic article relative to comment Y.

In some implementations the comment Y can be replaced using the interaction portion with at least a portion of commentary based on criteria different than criteria used to select comment Y for placement within the electronic article . In some implementations if comment Y is placed within the electronic article for consumption by a reader the comment Y can be associated with an interaction portion that functions as an element through which a reader can trigger replacement of comment Y with a randomly selected portion of the commentary .

As another example if comment Y is placed within the electronic article for consumption by a reader comment Y can be associated with an interaction portion that functions as an element through which a reader of the comment Y can remove e.g. delete all or a portion of the comment Y from the electronic article and or the commentary . In some implementations the interaction portion can be configured to limit e.g. based on one or more criteria included in one or more placement indicators the ability of the reader to modify one or more portions of the comment Y.

As yet another example if comment Y is placed within the electronic article for consumption by a reader comment Y can be associated with an interaction portion that functions as an element through which a reader of the comment Y can move e.g. open close minimize escape scroll page through a portion of the comment Y. In some implementations the interaction portion can be configured to implement movement capabilities based on the length of the comment Y the orientation of the comment Y the orientation of the comment Y to within the electronic article and or so forth which can be specified within one or more placement indicators.

In some implementations one or more functions associated with an interaction portion associated with at least a portion of the commentary can remain hidden or can be visible to a reader. In some implementations one or more functions associated with the interaction portion can be visible or hidden based on authorization for a particular reader of the portion of the commentary . In some implementations criteria for the authorization can be specified within one or more placement indicators.

As mentioned above in some implementations an interaction portion not shown can be associated with e.g. included in commentary placed within the electronic article based on one or more placement indicators such as placement indicator . For example an interaction portion of a particular type can be associated with commentary placed within the electronic article based on the placement indicator . As a specific example an interaction portion through which the reader can post a comment can be associated with at least a portion of the commentary placed within the electronic article based on the placement indicator . As another specific example an interaction portion through which the reader can post an indicator or approval disapproval and so forth can be associated with at least a portion of the commentary placed within the electronic article based on the placement indicator .

As shown in the electronic article is associated with as illustrated by the dashed line commentary which includes comments K through O. In this implementation the commentary can be displayed after the electronic article . In some implementations one or more of the comments included in the commentary can be authored via different user accounts and or computing devices.

As shown in comment L e.g. a copy of comment L is included in paragraph T and is associated with interaction portion . Comment N e.g. a copy of comment N is included at a location between paragraphs T and T. In this implementation comment N is associated with interaction portion .

In some implementations the commentary interaction manager can be configured to receive one or more indicators e.g. input values data produced via the interaction portions . For example an interaction of a user with at least one of the interaction portion can be configured to trigger an input value that can be received by the commentary interaction manager . In some implementations the commentary interaction manager can be configured to process the input value or can be configured to trigger one or more functions to be performed by other modules not shown included in the article modification module .

In this implementation interaction portion can be a portion through which at least a portion of comment L can be replaced by another comment. For example the comment L can be included in the paragraph T by the article modification module based on one or more commentary placement indicators not shown . In response to an interaction of a reader of the electronic article with the interaction portion or a portion thereof the comment L can be replaced with another comment from the commentary . Specifically the article modification module can be triggered to process the commentary based on the commentary placement indicator s to select another comment from the commentary for inclusion in the electronic article and to replace comment L in the electronic article . In some implementations comment L can be the best match with criteria included in the commentary placement indicator s . Accordingly the comment selected to replace the comment L can be the next best match e.g. next best match to comment L with the criteria included in the commentary placement indicator s .

In some implementations the article modification module when performing processing to place or to replace the comment L in the electronic article can be configured to rank order several of the comments for placement in the electronic article based on one or more commentary placement indicators. In such implementations the comment L can be the best match in the rank ordered list of comments for placement in the electronic article . Accordingly in response to replacement of the comment L being triggered via the interaction portion the comment L can be replaced with another of e.g. the next of the comments included in the rank ordered list. In some implementations interaction portion can be used to place another comment similar to or different e.g. opposite than comment L in the electronic article rather than replace comment L .

In this implementation the interaction portion can be configured as a user interface portion through which information can be added in conjunction with comment N. For example interaction portion can be used by a reader of the comment N to add commentary to the comment N attach an indicator of a like dislike of the comment N and or so forth. In some implementations the interaction portion can be configured as a user interface portion through which information can be removed from comment N.

In this implementation commentary the interaction portions are embedded within the electronic article . In some implementations the interaction portions can collectively form a user interface associated with or integrated into the electronic article .

Implementations of the various techniques described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Implementations may be implemented as a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier a machine readable storage device a computer readable medium a tangible computer readable medium for processing by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers . In some implementations a tangible computer readable storage medium can be configured to store instructions that when executed cause a processor to perform a process. A computer program such as the computer program s described above can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be processed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps also may be performed by and an apparatus may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the processing of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer may include at least one processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also may include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks . Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT a light emitting diode LED or liquid crystal display LCD display device for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. Components may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet .

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the implementations. It should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The implementations described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different implementations described.

