---

title: Single-resonator double-negative metamaterial
abstract: Resonances can be tuned in dielectric resonators in order to construct single-resonator, negative-index metamaterials. For example, high-contrast inclusions in the form of metallic dipoles can be used to shift the first electric resonance down (in frequency) to the first magnetic resonance, or alternatively, air splits can be used to shift the first magnetic resonance up (in frequency) near the first electric resonance. Degenerate dielectric designs become especially useful in infrared- or visible-frequency applications where the resonator sizes associated with the lack of high-permittivity materials can become of sufficient size to enable propagation of higher-order lattice modes in the resulting medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374887&OS=09374887&RS=09374887
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09374887
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 536 937 filed Sep. 20 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 622 870 filed Apr. 11 2012 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to dielectric metamaterials and in particular to single resonator double negative metamaterials.

Metamaterials based on resonant cell structures are often used to obtain a negative index of refraction where both the effective permittivity and permeability are negative and operation is adjusted to occur just above spectrally overlapping magnetic and electric resonances of the cell structures. See S. Tretyakov Artech House 2003 . Other applications of metamaterials including cloaking require independent tuning of the permittivity and permeability and thus require the ability to place the resonances at the desired spectral positions. In addition to the selective placement of resonances remaining in the effective material limit with diffraction suppressed is another goal in these types of metamaterial applications. See D. R. Smith and J. B. Pendry 23 3 2006 J. M. Lerat et al. 100 084908 2006 R. Liu et al. 76 026606 2007 Th. Koschny et al. 71 245105 2005 and P. A. Belov and C. R. Simovski 72 026615 2005 . Often times unit cells containing metallic split ring resonators yielding the magnetically resonant component and loaded dipoles yielding the electrically resonant component are used in constructing negative index metamaterials since they can be small and still attain both negative permittivity and permeability. See J. B. Pendry et al. 47 11 1999 S. Tretyakov et al. 51 2562 2003 S. Tretyakov 31 3 163 2001 J. Kim and A. Gopinath 76 115126 2007 B. Popa and S. Cummer 100 207401 2008 M. Sinclair et al. 2011 and L. I. Basilio et al. 10 1567 2011 . In these cases tuning of the electric and magnetic resonances is achieved through the design of the respective resonators.

In recent years all dielectric resonant structures utilizing high permittivity materials have drawn much attention since their use eliminates the material absorption inherent to metallic structures which can become prohibitive at higher frequencies . While dielectric cylinders and rectangles have frequently been used to realize a medium of negative permeability all dielectric resonators are not a natural fit for negative index applications since the first magnetic resonance occurs at a lower frequency than the first electric resonance. See J. Kim and A. Gopinath 76 115126 2007 B. Popa and S. Cummer 100 207401 2008 and M. Sinclair et al. 2011 .

Well known approaches that have been used to attempt to align the resonances of all dielectric resonators include the core shell designs of Kuester and Basilio and the AB type designs of Ahmadi and Jylha. See E. Kuester et al. 33 175 2011 L. Basilio et al. . Spokane Wa. USA 2011 A. Ahmadi and H. Mosallaei 77 045104 2008 and L. Jylha et al. 99 043102 2006. While both of these methods introduce an additional degree of freedom that provides for the tuning of the resonances in Kuester and Basilio by introducing a surrounding dielectric shell layer to a dielectric core and in Ahmadi and Jylha by introducing an additional resonator particle into the unit cell unfortunately these two approaches can easily bring into question the applicability of effective media this becomes particularly apparent at higher operating frequencies. In the case of the AB type design the size of the unit cell is physically extended perhaps by a factor of two to accommodate the additional resonator while alternatively in the core shell design the electrical size of the resonator is forced to increase because overlap of only higher order modes is possible. As the operating frequency is increased an additional problem that arises in both these approaches and any other all dielectric designs is that the range of available permittivities becomes much more limited. For example in the long wave infrared 8 m 15 m the largest relative permittivities available in low loss dielectric materials are in the range of 25 32 while relative permittivities in the hundreds or higher are common in the radio frequency part of the spectrum. See E. Palik Academic Orlando Fla. 1986 . To achieve resonance and still remain in the effective medium limit then becomes a difficult proposition. Nevertheless as metamaterials designs are pushed to higher frequencies the need for dielectric resonators is imperative since absorption associated with the metallic resonators becomes significant.

Therefore a need remains for metamaterials based on dielectric resonators where degeneracy of the lowest order magnetic and electric resonant modes can be realized and which consequently do not increase the lattice spacing.

The present invention is directed to negative index metamaterials based on single particle degenerate dielectric resonators. Various resonator embodiments can be realized by introducing high contrast perturbations to the cavity geometry so as to bring the lowest order electric and magnetic cavity resonances into frequency alignment as opposed to higher order modes on which previous core shell dielectric designs are based . Since negative index behavior can be demonstrated with only a single type resonator as opposed to dual particle or AB type designs these types of degenerate dielectric resonators potentially offer a size advantage so that the structure is less apt to fall outside the region where homogenization is applicable.

Therefore the present invention is directed to a single resonator unit cell design which when assembled in a periodic array can be used to provide a double negative metamaterial. Each resonator of each unit cell comprises at least one high contrast inclusion in a dielectric structure for the purpose of shifting the lowest electric and or magnetic resonances. For example a high permittivity inclusion such as a metallic dipole can shift the higher frequency lowest order electric resonance of the resonator toward a lower frequency and into alignment with the lowest order magnetic resonance. The metallic dipole can be oriented parallel to the electric field associated with the first excited electric mode and oriented at a null of the electric field of the first magnetic mode. Alternatively the inclusion can comprise a low permittivity inclusion such as a cut plane thereby shifting the lower frequency lowest order magnetic resonance of the resonator to the higher frequency lowest order electric resonance. The cut plane can be oriented perpendicular to the electric field associated with the first magnetic mode and oriented to have no normal electric field from the first electric mode. Two or more cut planes placed rotationally about the incident electric field axis and placed at symmetry angles of the resonator to provide an azimuthally independent response. In addition the resonator can also contain at least one high permittivity inclusion to shift the lowest order electric resonance of the resonator to a lower frequency and at least one low permittivity inclusion thereby simultaneously shifting the lowest order magnetic resonance of the resonator to a higher frequency. The dielectric structure can be a simple spherical or rectangular cavity. Other shapes can also be used but may be more difficult to design through numerical simulation. In the case of microwave frequencies many low loss high permittivity dielectric materials can be used including ZrSnTiO. If infrared or visible frequencies are of interest PbTe or Te can be used for example. These high permittivity materials enable high contrast inclusions but other low loss dielectric materials can also be used.

As examples of the present invention different types of inclusions in spherical dielectric resonators for the purpose of changing the spectral positions of the lowest magnetic and electric resonant modes are described below. The frequencies and field distributions of the lowest spherical modes can be found through a boundary condition analysis and then cavity perturbation theory can be used to examine the types of inclusions that are useful in moving the two types of modes into alignment. Perturbation theory can also be used to arrive at approximate predictions for the modal shifts in terms of frequency or wavelength realized with particular inclusions. An embodiment with multiple inclusions is described that can be used to push the inherently lower frequency magnetic resonance clear past the higher frequency electric resonance thereby illustrating negative index behavior. Multiple cut inclusions create an effective anisotropic material to cause alignment of the modes. The inherent anisotropy of the resonator dielectric material can also be used to align the modes for example tellurium is naturally anisotropic and this anisotropy can be used to mimic the multiple cut inclusions and create self degenerate structures . The spectral locations of the modes can be tuned to achieve other desired combinations of effective permittivity and permeability.

Other examples describe rectangular dielectric resonators that can be perturbed with inclusions to change the spectral positions of the lowest magnetic and electric resonant modes. The lowest modes can be selected in order to keep the resonator as electrically small as possible. In particular rectangular resonators can be easier to fabricate by lithographic techniques in the infrared frequency range as in the visible band . The frequencies and field distributions for rectangular dielectric resonators can be found through a waveguide approximation and numerical simulations. Perturbation theory can be used to arrive at approximate predictions for the modal shifts in terms of frequency or wavelength realized with particular inclusions. Resonator designs demonstrating modal degeneracy can be used for the construction of negative index metamaterials at infrared wavelengths. However the approach can also be used to tune the spectral locations of the modes to achieve other desired combinations of effective permittivity and permeability.

The present invention is directed to negative index metamaterial designs based on degenerate single particle dielectric resonators especially those operating at microwave through optical frequencies. According to the present invention high and low permittivity inclusions are placed within a resonator volume to perturb the resonant frequencies into alignment. It is useful to select polarization dependent perturbations of high contrast relative to the resonator material so that one of the modes is selected by virtue of the associated electric field orientation to move the respective resonant frequency in the appropriate direction ultimately bringing the two modes together .

As shown in high permittivity inclusions can be realized with metallic dipoles which are oriented along electric field lines associated with the first excited electric mode and ideally at a null of the electric field of the first magnetic mode in order to shift the electric resonance downward in frequency upward in wavelength toward the first magnetic mode. The metallic dipole preferably comprises a low loss metal and has an elongated shape such as a rod or prolate spheroid that selectively shifts the electric resonance but leaves the magnetic resonance unperturbed. More dipoles at other orientations can be added to provide a more isotropic response.

Alternatively as shown in low permittivity inclusions can be conveniently realized by a cut oriented perpendicular to electric field lines associated with the lowest magnetic mode and ideally having no normal electric field from the first electric mode . The cut can be a vacuum gap an air split or a gap filled with other gas dielectric foam or other low loss low permittivity materials. Alternatively the inclusion can be thin and have a pancake shape such as an oblate spheroid. Preferably the inclusion has a relative permittivity near one with no loss. With these types of perturbations the first magnetic mode is shifted upward in frequency downward in wavelength toward the first electric mode. However the amount of the frequency shift will eventually saturate as the size of the cut is increased. This effect can be overcome by using multiple inclusions within the dielectric resonator.

The effects resulting from metal dipoles and air cuts on the dielectric resonator performance are summarized in . It is important to point out that depending on the frequency range of interest each of these designs offer different advantages in terms of ease of manufacturing losses and electrical size. For example at microwave frequencies a dielectric resonator with a metallic dipole insert may be fairly easy to realize without a significant deterioration in the loss performance. The reasonable maintenance of the loss performance together with the fact that the electric size of the resonator becomes smaller as the electric mode is downshifted to lower frequencies ultimately overlapping the magnetic resonance for negative index performance are clear advantages of this type of design. On the other hand as the frequency is increased i.e. the wavelength is decreased air inclusions may become a more attractive option.

The two perturbing effects can be combined to overcome the above mentioned shift saturation and allow smaller individual inclusions to be used enable operation further from the peak of the resonances and realize loss reductions and make the resulting design invariant with respect to incident plane wave angle. Further to allow flexibility in precise alignment as well as to operate further away from the large losses associated with the resonant peak region the perturbed resonators can arranged to yield a larger packing fraction. With the extra response associated with the lattice arrangement it is possible for example to achieve negative index in the tail regions of the two resonances where losses are lower. With a combination of perturbations including both cuts and dipoles the magnetic resonance can be shifted to lower wavelengths i.e. higher frequencies at the same time that the electric resonance is shifted to higher wavelengths i.e. lower frequencies so that ultimately overlap is realized at an in between wavelength. Finally shift limitations can be overcome by introducing multiple cuts in the dielectric resonator. An advantage of this approach is that the response becomes independent of the azimuthal angle of incidence. For example in a sphere the cuts can be arranged along longitude lines defined by the poles oriented in the direction of the incident electric field. Since the resulting first electric mode will not possess an azimuthal component in the latitude direction then the first electric mode will have no normal electric field with respect to the cuts. The extra cut planes at 45 angles also shift the magnetic quadrupole away from the operating frequency region thereby lowering losses.

Various dielectric resonator designs are described below as examples of the present invention where frequency degeneracy of the lowest order magnetic and electric resonances is realized by introducing perturbations to the resonator in the form of metallic inclusions air gaps or combinations thereof. Since the magnetic resonance of these dielectric resonators always occurs at lower frequency than the electric resonance a negative index of refraction or double negative medium is not inherent to the single particle non perturbed design. Thus unlike the prior dielectric designs described in the Background section which can suffer from size disadvantages associated with either extending the unit cell to include two particle resonators or a reliance on higher order resonances the perturbed dielectric resonator designs of the present invention employ a degenerate single particle design operating at its lowest order magnetic and electric resonance thereby constraining the electrical size of the unit cell to obtain negative index properties. Although the particular resonator designs presented herein incorporate inclusions so as to induce frequency alignment of the lowest order modes other applications of these perturbation based resonators include those which require independent tuning of the constitutive parameters in combination with selective placement of the resonances at particular frequency positions.

Results based on isolated particle simulations together with extraction of the Claussius Mossatti effective medium parameters are described below for exemplary embodiments and a full wave periodic simulation of a bulk layer is provided for one of the designs. See L. I. Basilio et al. 10 1567 2011 and L. I. Basilio et al. 11 113 2012 which are incorporated herein by reference. The detailed theoretical analysis that has been used to arrive at the degenerate designs presented herein is provided in L. K. Warne et al. Perturbation Theory in the Design of Spherical Dielectric Degenerate Metamaterial Resonators . to be published L. K. Warne et al. Perturbation Theory in the Design of Degenerate Rectangular Dielectric Resonators to be published and U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 536 937 and 61 622 870 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. These latter references describe a cavity perturbation theory that can be used to ascertain the types of perturbations in terms of polarization and placement within the resonator that result in the necessary modal shifts to achieve degeneracy and provide simple formulas that can be used for designing degenerate resonator metamaterials.

In the example shown in a metallic dipole oriented along the electric field lines of the first order lowest frequency resonant electric mode is placed at the center of a dielectric sphere so that a frequency downshift of the electric resonance yields modal overlap with the first order magnetic mode. Whereas previous efforts have introduced metallic inclusions to establish gradient properties in a lens design here the metallic insert is being used to realize modal degeneracy in a single resonator for negative index performance. See X. Q. Lin 92 131904 2008 . The perturbed resonator geometry shown in is referred to herein as the SphWD design.

The Claussius Mossatti effective medium parameters can be computed by extracting the dipole moments from the scattered far zone patterns and the results for a frequency range about the resonances are shown in . See Basilio 2011 . Here it is evident that with the scattered peak alignment given in and a volume packing fraction of 30 negative index behavior corresponding to the real parts of the effective permeability and permittivity both being negative for this SphWD design occurs in the frequency band between 16.9 and 17.1 GHz. It is important to note that for the purpose of realizing lower loss performance the relative positioning between the magnetic and electric responses shown in has been selected so as to realize overlap in the tail regions negative side of the constitutive parameters as opposed to overlap in the negative peaks . From the imaginary part of nis shown to approach zero for frequencies greater than about 17 GHz where at 17.05 GHz the real part of the effective refractive index is approximately equal to 1. Specifically at 17.05 GHz the design is characterized by n 1.12 j0.05 which corresponds to an attenuation of 2.7 dB where is a free space wavelength and an effective lattice spacing of b n 0.22 b is slightly smaller at 0.20 .

In the previous example one inclusion type was employed to selectively frequency shift one resonance electric while leaving the other magnetic unperturbed. If minimizing the size of the perturbations is of interest in accordance with fabrication issues or loss considerations for example an alternative method to be considered introduces multiple perturbations so as to simultaneously frequency shift the resonances towards each other and ultimately realize overlap at some intermediate frequency to the fundamental ones 16.7 and 23.3 GHz for the unperturbed ZST resonator described in the previous section . shows an example in which a cut or air split perpendicular to the direction of propagation and parallel to the plane containing the incident plane wave polarizations is used to interact with the lowest order magnetic resonance while two strip dipoles and oriented along the incident electric field are placed on each flat face of the two hemispheres and for interaction with the lowest order electric resonance. Here two strip dipoles are employed for symmetry purposes only a single strip dipole could also be used. The perturbation based approach of is referred to as the split sphere strip dipole SplSphSD design.

The frequency positions of the resonances for the design of with parameters 38.0 0.019 sphere radius a 1.44 mm split size s 0.1 mm strip length L 0.9 mm and strip width w 0.2 mm can be identified from the far zone scattered amplitude responses given in . For simplicity the strip dipole is initially considered to be lossless and infinitesimally thin. The scattering results corresponding to the unperturbed sphere are provided for comparison. Thus with this dual perturbation approach the peak scattered amplitudes that were originally positioned at 16.7 and 23.3 GHz are seen to merge together and with the design parameters specified above align at approximately 20.5 GHz. Although a plot of the effective medium parameters found by the procedure described in Basilio 2011 is not shown here this particular SplSphSD design in a 30 volume arrangement yields a refractive index of n 1.03 j0.04 at 20.6 GHz this corresponds to an attenuation of 2.0 dB and an effective lattice spacing of b n 0.25. For this design the region of negative refraction occurs between about 20.2 and 20.6 GHz. 

As shown in a perturbation design based on an air split alone not including the strip dipoles can be used to shift the magnetic resonance up towards the higher frequency electric resonance which remains fixed as described in L. K. Warne et al. Perturbation Theory in the Design of Spherical Dielectric Degenerate Metamaterial Resonators . to be published. However the amount of the frequency shift will eventually saturate as the size of the air split is increased. The effect of the shift saturation is that the tuning range becomes limited and modal alignment may not be possible with the air split alone. Thus an attractive feature of a dual perturbation design is that this saturation effect is eluded and also that electric size of the resonator is kept smaller by realizing modal alignment at an intermediate frequency rather than at the higher frequency of the fundamental electric resonance as with the single air split design .

Since an all dielectric design may be desirable an alternative to the SplSphSD design that also overcomes saturation effects is shown in . With four equally sized air splits placed rotationally about the sphere axis in 45 increments it is worth noting that this example 4SplSph offers the added advantage of having an azimuthally independent response. As one might expect the presence of the multiple splits increases the sensitivity of the modal shifting and actually allows for the magnetic resonance to be tuned beyond the electric resonance.

The far zone scattered responses for a four air split sphere resonator characterized by 38.0 0.019 sphere radius a 1.44 mm and splits of s 0.1 mm are shown in . For this particular design alignment of the peak amplitudes corresponding to the magnetic and electric field excitations is found to occur at approximately 25 GHz thereby yielding the Clausius Mossatti parameters shown in for a packing fraction arrangement of 30 . Negative index behavior is observed in the band between 24.3 and 25.7 GHz where at 25.3 GHz the refractive index is given by n 1.05 j0.01 this corresponds to an attenuation of 0.5 dB and an effective lattice spacing of b n 0.3. It is significant to note that of the three examples presented herein the 4SplSph design is characterized by the largest negative refraction bandwidth and consequently the smallest loss values since it is possible to operate farther away from the peaks with a larger bandwidth design .

For the purposes of verifying the predicted performance of the perturbed resonator designs a bulk layer of five spheres along the direction of propagation with infinite periodicity in the lateral directions was simulated with the massively paralleled frequency domain integral equation code EIGER. See W. Johnson et al. EIGER An Open Source Frequency Domain Electromagnetics Code IEEE APSSymp. Honolulu Hi. USA 2007. A full wave simulation of a bulk layer based on the SphWD design with a packing fraction of 30 is described below.

As discussed above the modes of dielectric resonators are typically interlaced in frequency with the lowest magnetic resonance occurring before lower frequency the lowest electric resonance. In the discussion below rectangular resonators i.e. a rectangular prism are treated as isolated corresponding to lower packing fractions in the periodic lattice and the effects of the periodic lattice are discussed where appropriate. To illustrate the invention rectangular PbTe dielectric resonators at infrared frequencies where the relative permittivity is given by 32.04 i0.0566 where and 8.854188 pF m is the free space permittivity are considered as examples. See E. Palik Academic Orlando Fla. 1986 . For simplicity in the theoretical analysis only the real part of the PbTe permittivity is considered. Note that to keep the unit cell as small as possible it is preferable to use a dielectric resonator with a high permittivity . All simulations were generated using the integral equation method of moments code EIGER.

A global coordinate system was conveniently used for the incident plane wave and the array of particles and two local coordinate systems attached to a single particle. The global system had x in the direction of the incident magnetic field y in the direction of the incident electric field z in the direction of the incident wavevector direction of the incident wave and the origin was taken at the center of one particle. This global coordinate system was used in all the simulations that follow. Since the modes in the resonators naturally separate into transverse electric TE and transverse magnetic TM in the theoretical analysis it is convenient to use two local coordinate systems where the z axis is aligned with the direction of the incident magnetic field TE or alternatively with the incident electric field TM . These local coordinates are used in the sections where the modal fields and the inclusions are discussed. These sections use a b and c for the half dimensions of the rectangular resonator along the local x y and z directions respectively and do not permute the dimensions which would have to be done for a rectangular geometry to make the link to the global coordinate system . This approach is taken since the discussion is primarily interested in a cubic resonator.

It is important to note that while the spectral locations of the resonances determined from a single particle simulation are directly correlated with the transmission coefficient associated with a periodic assembly of the resonators an example of this is described below a simulation of an isolated resonator can be used to also identify the nature of the resonance electric versus magnetic and dipole versus quadrupole . This additional information together with the resonant wavelength can be used to design a degenerate perturbed resonator with overlapping lowest order magnetic and electric resonances and which ultimately demonstrates negative index behavior.

In general the far zone radiation patterns of the isolated resonator can be used to extract the magnetic and electric polarizabilities and ultimately determine the constitutive parameters describing an effective media comprised of an infinite array of these resonators. Thus for the simulations a single resonator excited with the plane wave orientation shown in was considered. To facilitate the interpretation of the response a superposition of plane waves was set up to create a cancellation of either the electric or magnetic field at the center of the resonator. Following the same procedure as described in Basilio 2011 and implemented in Basilio 2012 the resonant wavelengths were determined by the peaks in the far zone scattered fields generated by the isolated resonator. The results for a PbTe cubic resonator of side length 1.53 m are shown in sampled on the 90 plane for 0 and 90 where peaks in the far field amplitude for the isolated particle are seen to occur at 10.6 m 7.8 m and 7.0 m.

As in Basilio 2011 and Basilio 2012 the far field scattered patterns were used to extract the dipole moments of the isolated resonator. The scattered patterns corresponding to a superimposed plane wave excitation in Basilio 2011 sampled at each of the wavelengths identified from are plotted in . These pattern results were used to extract the effective media parameters see L. Jylha et al. 99 043102 2006 and E. Palik Academic Orlando Fla. 1986 shown in for a cubic array of PbTe cubes of side length 1.53 m with period 3.30 m. The magnetic dipole as well as the electric dipole resonances are clearly indicated in the effective permittivity and permeability response the quadrupole effect at 7 m is due to the single point polar sampling used to approximately determine the dipole moments. See Basilio 2011 . In addition the spectral locations for the effective media resonances are nicely correlated with the single particle simulations.

As described below the cavity field structures of the cubic dielectric resonator can be manipulated via perturbations so that overlapping lowest order electric and magnetic modes is achieved. With this type of single resonator degenerate design a metamaterial realizing negative index behavior and satisfying effective media constraints can be determined.

One approach to alignment of resonances is to place inclusions within the resonator volume in an effort to perturb the resonant frequencies into alignment. It is useful to select polarization dependent perturbations of high contrast relative to the resonator material so that one of the modes is selected by virtue of the associated field orientation and the respective resonant frequency is shifted in the appropriate direction. High permittivity inclusions can be realized with metallic dipoles which are oriented along electric field lines associated with the first excited electric mode and ideally at a null of the electric field of the first magnetic mode as shown in . Note that since PbTe is the highest permittivity material available in the infrared it is necessary to use a metallic inclusion to obtain high contrast . This type of perturbation has the effect of shifting the electric resonance downward in frequency toward the first magnetic mode. Whereas these inclusions are used herein to obtain single particle degeneracy as in Warne to be published and Basilio 2012 for spherical resonator designs inclusions of this type have been used previously to establish gradient properties for a lens design. See X. Q. Lin et al. 92 131904 2008 .

Alternatively low permittivity inclusions can be realized by splits or cuts filled with gas or other low permittivity materials oriented perpendicular to electric field lines associated with the lowest magnetic mode and ideally having no normal electric field from the first electric mode . With the type of perturbation shown in the first magnetic mode is shifted upward in frequency toward the first electric mode. Dielectric inclusions of this type have been used previously for bandwidth enhancements and tuning purposes. See Y. M. M. Antar and D. Guha Composite and Hybrid Dielectric Resonator Antennas Recent Advances and Challenges 23National Radio Science Conference Menoufiya University Egypt Mar. 14 16 2006 Y. M. Poplavko et al. 49 6 2001 and A. Derneryd et al. Dual Polarized Dielectric Resonator Antennas for Base Station Applications 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation Rome Italy 2011 .

The effects resulting from metal inclusions and air splits or cutouts on the dielectric resonator performance are illustrated pictorially in . Specific rectangular design examples are described below. Depending on the frequency range of interest each of these designs offer different advantages in terms of ease of manufacturing losses and electrical size. For example at microwave frequencies a resonator with a dipole insert may be fairly easy to realize without a significant deterioration in the loss performance. The reasonable maintenance of the loss performance together with the fact that the electric size of the resonator becomes smaller as the electric mode is downshifted to lower frequencies ultimately overlapping the magnetic resonance are clear advantages of this type of design. On the other hand as the frequency is increased lower loss perturbations such as air inclusions may become a more attractive option.

For a cubic resonator a b c operating in the first magnetic mode with a cutout at the center x 0 the normalized frequency shift according to the perturbation model becomes

It is important to note that for the rectangular resonator as described above for the spherical resonator the wavelength shift in the position of the magnetic resonance decreases as the thickness of the cutout is increased and eventually saturates to the magnetic resonance spectral position associated with the half resonator structure.

A saturation effect is observed with a normal electric field in the cutouts as shown in where the numerically simulated shift in the magnetic resonance is seen to lessen with increasing split size according to

Perturbations can be combined for the purposes of 1 enabling operation further from the resonances and consequently enabling loss reductions 2 overcoming the shift saturation discussed above and allowing smaller individual inclusions to be used and in the final case 3 making the resulting design somewhat invariant with respect to incident plane wave angle.

In order to allow flexibility in precise alignment of the modal resonances as well as to operate further away from the large losses associated with the resonant peak region the responses in a lattice of perturbed resonators including either dipole inclusions or air splits for example can be boosted by using a larger volume packing fraction. An example of a periodic array of cubic dielectric resonators is shown in . With the extra degree of freedom associated with the lattice arrangement versus the single resonator response it is possible for example to achieve negative index in the tail regions of the two resonances where the losses are lower. Increases in the packing fraction have also been shown to decrease the loss associated with a metal core dielectric shell spherical design. See Basilio 2011 .

If minimizing the size of the perturbations is of interest in accordance with fabrication issues or loss considerations for example perturbations can be combined so as to simultaneously frequency shift the magnetic and electric resonances toward each other and ultimately realize overlap at some intermediate frequency to the fundamental ones. In the rectangular resonator approaches discussed above one inclusion type was employed to selectively frequency shift one resonance while leaving the other unperturbed. shows a rectangular resonator that includes an air split used to interact with the lowest order magnetic resonance plus two strip dipoles and placed on each face of the split for interaction with the lowest order electric resonance. Here modal degeneracy is obtained by orienting the air split perpendicular to the direction of propagation and parallel to the plane containing the incident plane wave polarizations H and E orienting the strip dipoles along the direction of the incident electric field E and choosing the appropriate split thickness and dimensions of the dipole to realize the desired frequency shifts.

Advantages of the dual perturbation design such as that shown in are that the electrical size of the resonator is kept smaller versus the single air split design since alignment of the resonances occurs at an intermediate frequency rather than at the higher frequency of the fundamental electric resonance characterizing the unperturbed rectangular resonator and that the saturation effect discussed above is circumvented with multiple perturbations. It is important to recognize however that for higher frequency operation where losses associated with the metallic dipoles may not be tolerable the multiple perturbation designs discussed below may be preferable.

As an alternative to the cubic resonator designs that have been discussed thus far the aspect ratio of the resonators can also be manipulated going from cubic to rectangular to help bring about modal degeneracy. More specifically a slight elongation in the incident magnetic field direction results in a wavelength upshift of the electric resonance but yields less of an upshift in wavelength of the magnetic resonance since the magnetic field already penetrates the exterior region in this direction . This approach can thus be used to progress toward resonance alignment since the magnetic resonance already existed at a longer wavelength than the electric resonance . Combining this perturbation effect with that accompanying an air split inclusion which can be used to further downshift the magnetic resonance in wavelength provides a path towards an alternative degenerate resonator design. shows the simulation results for a slightly elongated PbTe resonator the side lengths of the resonator in the y and z directions are 1.53 m while the length along the x direction of the incident H field is 1.91 m and containing a single air split of 50 nm. Thus with the elongation of the cube together with a relatively minor cut perturbation modal degeneracy is observed for this design degeneracy occurs at 8.3 m . The electric resonance position has been shifted upward in wavelength from its original position of 7.8 m to 8.7 m due to the stretching of the cube in the x direction but moves down slightly in wavelength with the introduction of the air split. For comparison in using a cubic resonator geometry 1.53 m for all sides an air split of over 150 nm is necessary to achieve modal alignment however by this point saturation in the shifting of the magnetic resonance becomes a significant factor . It is also important to point out that although further increasing the aspect ratio of the cube this example used an aspect ratio of 1.25 does lead to greater shifts in the electric resonance the goal with these designs is to keep the size of the resonators down with the combination of the elongation and the split perturbation so as to remain in the effective media limit.

The modal shifting limitations discussed above can be overcome by introducing multiple air splits in the dielectric resonator. In a similar manner to the multiple air split spherical designs discussed above rectangular resonators split in the cross section perpendicular to the incident electric field can be used to realize a greater tuning range beyond the saturation limit inherent to the single air split approach . A multiple air split rectangular design with cuts in the cross section denoted by the local x y plane with the incident electric field oriented along the local z direction that is cuts in the local x z and y z planes is shown in . It is important to recognize that an additional advantage of this approach besides overcoming saturation limitations is that the resonator response becomes more independent of the azimuthal angle of incidence for a spherical resonator with many cuts the response becomes independent of azimuthal angle of incidence .

In the specialized case of a rectangular resonator with a square cross section perpendicular to the incident electric field direction the symmetries can be further used to cut the dielectric along the diagonals since there is no normal electric field with respect to these additional cuts for the first electric mode. Such split rectangular resonators are shown in .

Four split rectangular resonator designs also have the advantage that the second magnetic mode will be further displaced from the degenerate frequency of the two lowest order modes note that in the unperturbed resonator and single split designs this mode is located at approximately 7.0 m. Suppressing this higher order mode near the operating frequency means that additional losses are not incurred. In alignment between the magnetic and electric modes is seen to occur at approximately 7.5 m for the four split rectangular design including 50 nm splits. To verify the dipole nature of the modes the scattered patterns at the two lowest order resonances of the four split cube are presented in .

The present invention has been described as a single resonator unit cell that can be used in a periodic assembly to form a double negative metamaterial. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

