---

title: Automated provisioning and management of cloud services
abstract: A system for managing the provisioning of cloud based services includes a collection module, a configuration module, a licensing module and a set up module. The collection module automatically obtains and stores information from end user machines that relevant to the provisioning of the could-based services. The configuration module uses the obtained information to automatically configure the use of the cloud based services. The licensing module automatically configures the account and licensing information allowing an end-user machine to access the cloud based services. The setup module automatically configures the end user machines to access and use the cloud-based services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477530&OS=09477530&RS=09477530
owner: CONNECTWISE, INC.
number: 09477530
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
The present application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 513 115 filed Jul. 29 2011 entitled Automated Provisioning And Management Of Cloud Services the contents of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to cloud services and service delivery and more specifically to automating the provisioning billing and reporting of multiple cloud services from multiple vendors for multiple end users at multiple companies for a managed service provider. The provisioning function is implemented both on end user machines and at the cloud service provider.

The use of cloud based services is rapidly growing in popularity. These services have advantages that make them extremely attractive to end users and also make them easier to maintain from a management perspective. However the vendors of these cloud based services all have different interfaces for setting up and managing them which poses a challenge to the administrators responsible for keeping them working As more end users look to outsource the management of their computing infrastructure these challenges fall onto the shoulders of the outsourced service providers where they are multiplied even further by the sheer number of end user systems involved.

Some existing systems help to automate the provisioning of the hardware for running the cloud services. Other existing systems can automate the provisioning of the software cloud services themselves but only in a captive environment where the provisioning tools are built into the software at both the server and the client. Still other existing systems help to automate the provisioning of cloud service software from third party sources but only if that software is either designed or modified to fit into a new federation or schema .

Some popular existing systems that are in fairly wide use work with unmodified third party software but does not provide any automation for setting up the end user systems to use the cloud services and also requires manual effort for the management of each end user system. Some existing systems go further to automate at least some part of the management of multiple end user systems but do not automate the gathering of any provisioning information from those end user systems and often fall back to the requirement of modifying the cloud service software to conform to a new management API or schema .

In addition to automating the provisioning and management of cloud services on large numbers of end user systems outsourced service providers also need tools to help manage the complexity of the billing involved. They can often get volume discounts on the cloud services but do not want to pass along the entire discount to their customer but instead use the difference to help their own profit margins. Some existing systems provide consolidated billing of online services through an intermediary but lack the ability to manage multiple companies and have no automation of the data gathering from end user systems needed to set up the billing infrastructure.

The present invention describes a system that solves the growing problem of managing the complexity of providing cloud based services to end users in a managed environment. In such an environment an outsourced service provider must be able to provision set up accounts and access for multiple cloud services from multiple vendors all with different interfaces. The outsourcer must also provision these services for multiple of their own customers each with many end users having different requirements for the cloud services. The outsourcer must manage the billing process for these multiple customers as well as monitoring the availability and performance of the cloud services. This requires the outsourcer to provide reports on these metrics to the customers. The present invention provides a way to automate the provisioning monitoring reporting and billing for these cloud services.

It is clear that some of the required functions exist for management of multiple cloud services by multiple service providers for multiple end users at multiple companies but some do not and none are combined into the tool set that an outsourced service provider needs.

The present invention provides these functions and gives some relief to the staggering magnitude of the task of managing these cloud services by automating most of the work in a clean easy to manage interface that works well for the outsourced service providers the vendors of the cloud services and the ultimate end users of those services.

The end user uses a personal computer that contains local storage and a number of applications that are cloud enabled applications. The applications described here are intended to be representative and not comprehensive.

The collaboration tools application uses the work flow collaboration cloud service to allow the end user to create organize edit share update and track documents spreadsheets databases forms presentations and drawings working either alone or jointly with other users around the world. This could be a cloud service such as Google Docs. A cloud based work flow collaboration service allows easy and natural interaction with other online users and also allows new features to be implemented and deployed in the cloud implementation with little effort or disruption to the end user .

The end user uses a web browser to access and control information on a wide variety of web sites. However many kinds of sites may be inappropriate for the end user due to the nature of the content or the presence of malicious intent in the site so the web browser is augmented with a component that uses a web filtering cloud service to restrict or forbid access to certain web sites. This could be a cloud service such as FortiGuard web filtering. A cloud based web site filtering service provides central management of the difficult task of keeping up with the evolving technology required for identifying and filtering inappropriate web sites.

Similarly the end user uses an email client to communicate using email but many email messages may be inappropriate superfluous annoying or dangerous. To manage this the email client is augmented with a component that uses an email filtering cloud service to eliminate or quarantine such email messages. This could be a cloud service such as the one from Barracuda Networks. A cloud based email filtering service provides central management of the difficult task of keeping up with the evolving technology required for filtering unwanted email messages.

The personal computer is vulnerable to a wide variety of threats such as viruses trojans worms and malware. An anti virus application helps to protect the personal computer from these threats and uses a virus protection cloud service to keep updated. This could be a cloud anti virus service such as Panda Cloud Office Protection offered by Panda Security. A cloud based virus protection service provides central management of the difficult task of updating the anti virus application to contain and disable the rapidly growing assortment of malicious threats.

The accounting application uses the accounting solution cloud service to provide the end user with an accurate and up to date accounting management solution. This could be a cloud service such as the NetSuite business accounting solution. A cloud based accounting solution allows accounting management by multiple end users across the entire business and also allows central management of complex accounting forms and tables that change frequently due to regulatory updates.

The document processing application uses the document processing and storage cloud service to allow the end user to create organize edit store and track documents spreadsheets databases presentations project plans and drawings. This could be a cloud service such as Microsoft Office . A cloud based document cloud service provides low maintenance access for the end user to licensing updates and data storage facilities.

The sales management application uses the sales management solution cloud service to help the end user manage all aspects of the sales process including contacts leads quotes calendars quotas contracts and forecasting. This could be a sales management cloud service such as the one provided by SalesForce.com. A cloud based sales management solution provides simple and natural tracking updating and management of the sales process across the entire sales force for the company.

The data storage of the personal computer needs to be backed up safely and reliably to prevent the catastrophic loss of data in the event of a disabling hardware or software failure user error or malicious data destruction event. The cloud based data backup service provides this capability using a lightweight agent on the personal computer . This could be a data backup service such as the one provided by Acronis. A cloud based data backup service relieves the end user from the burden of worrying about the details of managing the backup storage media and the scheduling of backup operations and makes it much more likely that effective backup operations actually take place.

Cloud based solutions greatly facilitate the central management and sharing of company wide data between end users. A second end user with a laptop computer having data storage can use the same data backup cloud service and the same sales management solution cloud service with a different instance of the sales management application . Doing this gives the end user the same powerful capabilities as those used by end user with a relatively small incremental investment in effort and expense.

Cloud based solutions also enhance the effectiveness of a mobile work force. An end user who is traveling can use a convenient mobile device with apps set up to access and use the same data backup cloud service and sales management solution cloud service thereby gaining the same advantage in extended power with relatively small incremental investment. In addition the installation and updates of the apps themselves is managed through a cloud based app store .

The administrator is the entity that is responsible for setting up and managing the cloud service for the end user . The end user is the entity that is the ultimate beneficiary of the cloud service. The vendor is the entity that provides the cloud service and is typically a business that derives its revenue from providing the cloud service to a number of end users.

The first step in provisioning the cloud service is for the administrative user to set up the customer data . This customer information applies to a group of end users that are related and are managed by the administrator as a single unit. For example the customer information could apply to all end users at a single company. The administrative user sets up the customer data using a control panel provided by the vendor . The interface to the control panel can be through a browser or a proprietary interface. The control panel interacts with a vendor database to set up and store the customer data . Some of the customer data originates from the administrative user and some of it is generated by the control panel or the billing system . During the provisioning process the database is set up with the customer information that identifies the customer and provides any operational information such as contact information. The billing information is also set up and can include information such as account numbers and credit limits. The customer credentials are also generated and set up these are secret information such as a username and password that are used to authenticate the administrative user in online transactions. During the setup of the billing information the control panel interacts with the billing system used by the vendor which in turn may need to interact with a transaction processor that may provided by an outside vendor. For example the billing system may need to validate credit card information provided by the administrative user by using a bank service.

The second step in provisioning the cloud service is for the administrative user to set up the machine information . The administrative user accesses the end user machine that will use the cloud service and obtains relevant configuration information about the end user machine . Using the control panel the administrative user provides this information and as a result the control panel updates the database with the machine information . The machine information contains machine data associated with the end user machine such as a serial number that identifies the machine. It also contains service instance data that describes how the end user machine will use the cloud service such as what features will be available and how much storage is allocated. It also contains machine credentials these are secret information such as a username and password that are used to authenticate the end user machine when it needs to use the cloud service. Finally the machine information can contain a customized machine installer that will be used for provisioning the end user machine . Note that in other embodiments of the system the machine installer may not be specific to a single end user machine and may be stored with the customer data or may even be stored externally to the database .

The third step in provisioning the cloud service is for the administrative user to access the machine installer either through the control panel or by other means and apply it to the end user machine . The machine installer could be embodied as executable code a script to be interpreted or even a list of instructions for the administrative user to follow to manually set up the end user machine . During this process the end user machine updates its data store to include the local machine provisioning information that is necessary for the local cloud app to use the service cloud .

Once the provisioning process is complete the end user can use the cloud app on the end user machine . When the cloud app needs to access the service cloud it uses the machine provisioning information in the local data store to authenticate the end user machine with the service controller . The service controller uses the machine credentials in the database to verify the authentication of the end user machine and also accesses the service instance data to configure the services provided to the cloud app . The service controller then provides services as needed using the processors and data store in the service cloud .

In the second step of the process described for in the administrator must repeat the operation of setting up the machine information for the machine of each end user . For example the administrator must access the machine of end user to obtain relevant configuration information and use the control panel to update the database with the machine information . Similarly the administrator then accesses the machine of end user to obtain relevant configuration information and uses the control panel to update the database with the machine information . Similarly the administrator then accesses the machine of end user n to obtain relevant configuration information and uses the control panel to update the database with the machine n information . This step must be repeated for all the end users that are to use the cloud service.

In the third step of the process described for in the administrator must access the appropriate machine installer for each end user and apply it to the appropriate machine. For example the administrator accesses the machine installer for the machine of end user and applies it to that machine. Similarly the administrator accesses the machine installer for the machine of end user and applies it to that machine. Similarly the administrator accesses the machine installer for the machine of end user n and applies it to that machine. This step must be repeated for all the end users that are to use the cloud service.

Once this provisioning process is completed for all end users the end users can use the cloud service by accessing the service controller with the same process described for repeated in .

In the first step of the process described for in the administrator must repeat the operation of setting up the customer data at all of the multiple vendors providing the cloud services. For example to set up vendor the administrator accesses the control panel and provides customer information to it that the control panel utilizes to set up the database with the customer data . Similarly to set up vendor the administrator accesses the control panel and provides customer information to it that the control panel utilizes to set up the database with the customer data . Similarly to set up vendor n the administrator accesses the control panel and provides customer information to it that the control panel utilizes to set up the database with the customer data . This step must be repeated for all the vendors providing cloud services that will be used by the end user .

In the second step of the process described for in the administrator can access the end user machine one time to obtain the configuration information needed but the administrator must then use that information to set up the machine information at all of the multiple vendors providing the cloud services. For example to set up vendor the administrator accesses the control panel and provides the machine information to it that the control panel utilizes to set up the database with the machine information . Similarly to set up vendor the administrator accesses the control panel and provides the machine information to it that the control panel utilizes to set up the database with the machine information . Similarly to set up vendor n the administrator accesses the control panel and provides the machine information to it that the control panel utilizes to set up the database with the machine information . This step must be repeated for all the vendors providing cloud services that will be used by the end user .

In the third step of the process described for in the administrator accesses the machine installer from each vendor and applies it to the end user machine . For example the administrator accesses the machine installer from vendor and applies it to the end user machine which updates the local data store with the machine provisioning . Similarly the administrator accesses the machine installer from vendor and applies it to the end user machine which updates the local data store with the machine provisioning . Similarly the administrator accesses the machine installer from vendor n and applies it to the end user machine which updates the local data store with the machine provisioning n . This step must be repeated for all the vendors providing cloud services that will be used by the end user .

Once this provisioning process is completed for all vendors the end user can use the cloud apps which access the cloud services provided by the vendors by communicating with the service controllers at the vendors .

This fully general case requires the administrator at the MSP to use the control panel to set up multiple customer data in the database and then repeat this step at each vendor . The administrator must access configuration information from the machine of each end user at each customer and use it with the control panel at each vendor to set up machine information for each customer . Then the administrator must apply the machine installer from each vendor to the system of each end user at each customer . Once this is complete the end users at each customer can use the cloud services provided by the vendors by connecting with the service controller at each vendor . The end users of each customer connect independently with the service controllers at the vendors .

However the bookkeeping for this process that must be managed by the administrator is enormous. Each customer may need a different subset of cloud services and within a single customer each end user may have different requirements for different cloud services. The amount of detail is so large that it is highly susceptible to human error so the need for automation of the labor intensive processes is compelling and urgent. The present invention describes a system for largely automating the process of provisioning cloud services in this complex MSP environment.

The RMM system uses a database to manage all the data associated with the end user devices . This database also contains customer information about the customer . Some representative examples of the customer information include contact information billing information service plan information ticketing and invoicing. Some of this information is entered by the administrator through the management interface but much of it is also entered and kept current automatically by the management controller based on information it receives from the end users or directly from the end user devices .

When the administrator wants to provision a cloud service vendor for the customer the process is largely automated. Rather than interacting directly with the control panel the administrator initiates the operation on the RMM system through the management interface . The management interface then interacts directly with the control panel of the cloud service vendor using either an Application Programming Interface API designed for this interaction or by mimicking the action of an end user through the normal User Interface UI . The management interface has access to all of the customer information in the database in order to complete this operation and is therefore able to provision the database with the customer data at the cloud service vendor . In addition the management interface receives all of the customer specific provisioning information back from the control panel such as the customer credentials and stores these in the customer information of the RMM system where it is available for future use.

As a result of using the RMM system the end user device has provided status information to the management controller which is stored in the machine information of the database . This machine information contains a very complete and accurate picture of the end user device with no manual effort required on the part of either the administrator or the end user .

When the administrator wants to provision the cloud service from the vendor for the machine the process is largely automated. Rather than interact directly with the control panel the administrator initiates the process on the RMM system using the management interface . The management interface then interacts directly with the control panel of the cloud service vendor using either an API or mimicking an end user through operations on the UI . The management interface uses customer data from the database to authenticate against the customer data in the database at the cloud service vendor . Then it provisions the end user device at the cloud service vendor using machine information in the database on the RMM system . As a result the database at the vendor is updated with the required machine information about the end user device . In addition any provisioning information associated with the device that is generated by the control panel is returned back to the management interface and is stored along with the machine information in the database on the RMM system where it is available for future use.

When the administrator wants to provision the end user machine to use the cloud service from the vendor the process is largely automated. Rather than interact with the vendor the administrator initiates the process on the RMM system using the management interface . The management interface then uses the customer data and machine information in the database to prepare everything that is required for the provisioning process. Next the management controller uses this setup and applies it on the end user machine . As a result the machine provisioning information gets set up in the data store of the machine and the cloud app is installed and configured. This is all done without manual intervention on the part of either the administrator or the end user .

After the provisioning process is complete the end user can use the cloud app which interacts with the service controller at the vendor using the machine provisioning information . The service controller uses the customer data and machine information in the database to authenticate the end user machine and to set up the parameters for the cloud app usage of the service cloud . The cloud app then uses the processor resources and data resources of the service cloud to implement its capabilities.

One aspect of the RMM system that is particularly powerful in this provisioning process is that it is set up to manage the customers and the end user machines in defined groups based upon their capabilities and entitlements in the management service. The administrator can use these groups to provide different subsets of services from the vendors to different subsets of the customers and even to different subsets of end user machines . This highly automated approach to provisioning provides the MSP with an extremely low effort organized and scalable approach to providing these cloud based services to the customers.

In addition the RMM system can also easily manage changes to the provisioning of the cloud based service. For example if customer no longer wants to pay for the use of the cloud service from vendor the administrator can with a single operation use the RMM system to remove the provisioning from all the end user machines at vendor and also remove the provisioning from the end user machines themselves.

To solve this issue the RMM system uses an interface to the vendor s reporting service either through an API or by mimicking user interaction through a UI. The reporting service uses the vendor database to provide the desired information and the RMM system accesses the data from all the vendors through the vendor reporting services. Then the RMM system creates customer reports that can be customized by the MSP and organized in ways that suit the needs of the customers of the MSP.

In addition one of the metrics that is of interest to the MSP and customers of the MSP is the availability of the cloud services in other words how often they are usable and how often they are not usable. The vendors may provide some data on this but the MSP and its customers typically want independent verification of these numbers since contractual obligations can depend on them. The RMM system can access the service controller at the vendors at periodic intervals and run a short test to determine whether or not the cloud service is responding. The RMM system then keeps a history of the results and uses it to compute the availability of the services of the vendors . These availability statistics can be included in the customer reports .

The MSP can use the RMM system to generate a billing invoice to send to the customer which the customer pays . Alternatively the RMM system can use the billing system of the vendor through an interface that is either an API or mimics access through a UI to generate a billing invoice that goes to the customer who pays . Alternatively the MSP can use the billing system of a third party accounting vendor through an interface that is either an API or mimics access through a UI to generate a billing invoice that goes to the customer who pays . Any of these billing methods or any combination of them will work as long as the RMM system has an accurate picture of the billing for the services that the customer is using from the vendor . However the billing may change without involving the MSP . One way this can happen is that an end user may have direct access to the control panel to change the service structure in the database in a way that affects the billing. Another way this can happen is that the cloud app on the end user machine may be able to change the service structure in the database through the service controller in a way that affects the billing. Another way this can happen is that the cloud app may use the service controller in a way that changes the billing for the service as a normal result of the way the service is used. For example a cloud based backup solution may charge for the amount of data that is backed up which can change based on the amount of data stored on the end user machine . The MSP may not be able to prevent these billing changes or may not even want to prevent them since increases in billing by the vendor may result in increased revenue .

To handle this situation the RMM system accesses the control panel at the vendor through an interface that is either an API or mimics access through a UI and discovers any changes in the service provisioning that have been made by an end user . Then the RMM system uses this updated information in the billing invoice to accurately reflect the payment that the MSP must pay to the vendor .

In addition to those listed above there are many facets of the present invention apparent to one skilled in the art which have not been described in the detailed embodiment above. These include but are not limited to the use of mobile devices by end users a hierarchical RMM system architecture a RMM system that provides its own cloud based services a RMM system that is provided as a cloud based service itself a direct service from an MSP to end users that does not involve an intermediate customer and a RMM system that is implemented as a distributed system that does not involve the use of a central RMM server.

It should be understood that the systems described above may provide multiple ones of any or each of those components and these components may be provided on either a standalone machine or in some embodiments on multiple machines in a distributed system. The systems and methods described above may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. In addition the systems and methods described above may be provided as one or more computer readable programs embodied on or in one or more articles of manufacture. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass code or logic accessible from and embedded in one or more computer readable devices firmware programmable logic memory devices e.g. EEPROMs ROMs PROMs RAMs SRAMs etc. hardware e.g. integrated circuit chip Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. electronic devices a computer readable non volatile storage unit e.g. CD ROM floppy disk hard disk drive etc. . The article of manufacture may be accessible from a file server providing access to the computer readable programs via a network transmission line wireless transmission media signals propagating through space radio waves infrared signals etc. The article of manufacture may be a flash memory card or a magnetic tape. The article of manufacture includes hardware logic as well as software or programmable code embedded in a computer readable medium that is executed by a processor. In general the computer readable programs may be implemented in any programming language such as LISP PERL C C C PROLOG or in any byte code language such as JAVA. The software programs may be stored on or in one or more articles of manufacture as object code.

Having described certain embodiments of methods and systems for virtualizing audio hardware for one or more virtual machines it will now become apparent to one of skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating the concepts of the disclosure may be used.

