---

title: Method for controlling access to visual media in a social network
abstract: A method for controlling access to a visual medium in a social network comprising user units connected to a social network site server associated to a database and a to a distorted visual medium server storing visual media posted by users of the social network. A visual medium is selected by a posting user on a user unit and made available to at least one entitled user of said social network. The posting user defines a list of entitled users to be entitled to access the visual medium, said list of entitled users comprising at least one identifier identifying at least one entitled user, said identifier being associated to a parameter defining an access level to the selected visual medium. The selected visual medium is uploaded to the distorted visual medium server in association with the list of entitled users. The distorted visual medium server stores the visual medium in a memory and applies a distortion effect so as to obtain at least one distorted visual medium degraded according to a predefined degradation level. An entitled user identified on the list receives, from the distorted visual medium server, the visual medium distorted according to a degradation level corresponding to the parameter defining the access level associated to the identifier of the entitled user. The distortion effect applied on the original visual medium preferably consists of a scrambling operation performed on the original visual medium to obtain a scrambled visual medium. The access level defines the rights of a user for descrambling the scrambled visual medium into a reconstructed visual medium. Depending on the user access level, the reconstructed visual medium can be a partially descrambled visual medium or a fully descrambled visual medium according to the user access level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08925107&OS=08925107&RS=08925107
owner: Privately Sarl
number: 08925107
owner_city: Lausanne
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20120427
---
The invention relates to a method for controlling access to visual media made available to members of a social network.

In modern social networks some providers do not effectively protect assets from being distributed unintentionally and accessed by certain sensitive members of the network.

Example of Natasha she currently lives in Crawford she has a social network account as a former resident of Arcata she has Arcata friends registered as friends of her social network account as a current teacher to youngsters who are under age she also has some of her pupils as friends of her social network account. The risk to her is that younger friends may see some risque pictures or videos visual medium in what follows that are related to her former life and that she would like to continue sharing with her Arcata friends or pictures of her that other friends have on their social network accounts.

The operation for a visual medium to end up being managed by the social network provider is called in what follows posting visual medium . Notice there are two basic outcome of this operation 1 uploading a visual medium to a database controlled by the social network provider and 2 let it be seen on some pages linked to the user profile for instance user s albums walls or news feeds. We will call the former issue a privacy issue for posted visual medium . We will show this issue concerns both aspects of database storage and of control of the pages disclosing it.

Social network providers manage the privacy issue by providing ways for the user to set up an exact list of her friends who can see the visual media posted on her account. For example Natasha wants to add to her social network album a photo of the party for her departure on the Arcata beach. She may specify that only Joe and Jack of Arcata can see it. This operation becomes cumbersome if she wants all of the 50 friends of this particular party to be entitled to access the photo. It is also very unpractical if she wants to post an image from her mobile device on the go. Moreover if she forgets someone this person will never know she did post such nice photo.

Social network providers avoid distribution costs i.e. processing telecom bandwidth etc. by storing users visual media in unencrypted form. This is detrimental to the privacy of the users. For example if Natasha posts a visual medium on her social network account while correctly setting the list of entitled social network friends she knows the visual medium is still in the clear on the social network server. The visual media can be easily stolen if the social network does not protect against leak with sufficient measures. In addition the social network provider may offer to users additional features through the usage of third party applications that use dedicated application programming interface API to interface with the social network site. Such third party applications often ask the users to grant them access to her visual media. Whereas this may be unwanted by the user the user may yet want to use an application and the application may just need to know what albums and what visual medium types our count are in the album. However for a user aware of privacy issues it can be quite uncomfortable to give unlimited access to her visual media to such third parties. The user may fear having her visual media revealed to some unwanted people through the application itself.

Even so the clear visual media can easily be found in an unsuitable and unwanted location if for instance the social network provider let friends of friends access the same clear visual media than the first friends. Usually this is also solved by dedicated privacy settings globally defining that friends of friends cannot access given posted visual medium. Not only this would add to the impracticality of the posting process but it may just be different from what the user expected. In Natasha s case she would like that the nice visual medium virally propagates inside the Arcata community. What she wants is a way to let all Arcata former friends and friends of friends know she has this nice visual medium of the beach party while not letting her pupils access the visual medium even if it happens they are friends of Arcata friends. This could be solved by even more complex entitlement management tools for instance by letting the user define which sub communities of friends of friends are entitled to access the posted visual medium. This would be definitively too complex. If previous problem is solved by storing encrypted visual media an encrypted version of visual media could be propagated but in that case the visual medium version is of no use. It does not help other users understand there is an image that could be interesting In that case only textual metadata provided with the visual media could be used.

Eventually users are not always aware of privacy issues. If the social network provider is aware of such issues and think users may post clear visual media while they would later regret to have posted the social network should provide means to facilitate the usage of the tools he provided to solve the previous issues and motivate the user to deal with this aspect.

The aims of the invention are to bring a solution to above mentioned problems by a method for controlling access to a visual medium in a social network for example in a system of instant messaging or chat room.

The aims are achieved by a method for controlling access to a visual medium in a social network comprising user units connected to a social network site server associated to a database and a to a distorted visual medium server storing visual media posted by users of the social network a visual medium being selected by a posting user on a user unit and made available to at least one entitled user of said social network characterized in that it comprises steps of 

A distorted visual medium is to be understood as an image or a video sequence comprising a certain number of visual elements which only outlines can be distinguished by a user without the details of the visual elements which are visible only in the visual medium before being distorted. In other words a subject of a distorted image remains visible in the great lines contrarily to an encrypted image which appears in form of an unrecognizable image with scattered elements.

The invention can be described as follows each embodiment being applicable separately or in combination 

According to an embodiment the invention may be applied in a social network or instant messaging system where connected entitled users access to visual media according to access levels defined by a posting user. The distorted visual medium server produces from the original visual medium selected by the posting user at least one distorted visual medium in order to present a degradation level depending on the access level. The posting user attributes a different degradation level for each user of the social network selectively by user or by group or by default.

In a first embodiment of the method the distorted visual medium server stores the posted original visual medium and thus prepares on the basis of the original visual medium a plurality of distorted visual media corresponding to each access level which may be attributed to at least one entitled user of the list of entitled users. Each distorted visual medium is degraded according to a level corresponding to the parameter defining an access level. For example degradation level zero corresponds to the original visual element while a high level of degradation corresponds to a much distorted visual medium. The posting user attributes by establishing the list an access level corresponding to a level of degradation of the visual medium so that the entitled user identified in the list receives a visual medium distorted according to the degradation level defined by the posting user.

According to a preferred embodiment the original visual medium is sent encrypted by the posting user to the distorted visual medium server and the distorted visual medium are sent encrypted to the entitled users.

In a second embodiment of the method the distorted visual medium server stores the original visual medium and thus prepares on the basis of the original visual medium one visual medium distorted with a maximal degradation level and a plurality of recomposition objects allowing reconstructing several degraded visual media from the maximal degraded visual medium according to different degradation levels. Upon request of an entitled user the distorted visual medium server sends a visual medium degraded according the degradation level defined by the posting user.

The first embodiment may apply to non reversible distortion effects while the second embodiment applies only to reversible distortion effects where a reverse distortion effect or recomposition object is applied on the maximal degraded visual medium.

It has to be noted that a same degradation level may be attributed to different users at the choice of the posting user.

The distortion effect applied on the original visual medium may consist of a scrambling operation performed on the original visual medium to obtain a scrambled visual medium. The access level defines the rights of a user to access a visual medium at a given degradation level. Depending on the user access level the reconstructed visual medium can be a partially descrambled visual medium or a fully descrambled visual medium i.e. identical to the original visual medium according to the user access level. The reconstructed visual medium can be scalable into a plurality of different quality levels so that this visual medium can still be more or less scrambled. Therefore the reconstruction of this visual medium can be advantageously made in an adaptive and progressive manner. To this end the present invention allows defining the quality of the reconstructed visual medium by means of the user access level in particular owing to information or parameters contained in access condition of that user. Thus the descrambling operation is performed selectively according to access criteria. In other words it is performed on demand according to the profile of the user wanting to handle this visual medium in view to see it to copy it to send it or in view of any other purpose. Such a method is useful for advertising teasing application to stimulate promote the curiosity for a final consumption.

According to an embodiment the distortion effect may consist of applying a down sampling operation to the original visual medium to obtain low resolution visual medium according to the user access levels. Depending on the user access level the resolution of the visual medium is set more or less lower than the resolution of the original visual medium according to the degradation level applied on the original visual medium. The reconstruction of the visual medium may be performed from the distorted visual medium by using a recomposition object containing the necessary information comprising algorithm and parameters to obtain the visual medium according to the access levels.

In the client application for upload CAU uploads a data including the original visual medium OVM and entitlement list EL to the distorted visual medium server DVMS which forwards b the distorted visual medium DVM to the social network site server SNS . The client application for download CAD gets c the distorted visual medium DVM from the social network site server and requests d and obtains e a clear visual medium CVM or a visual medium degraded according to the access level defined in the entitlement list EL .

There are different ways to implement the clients and the distorted visual medium server DVMS must support these different implementations of the client application for upload CAU and client application for download CAD . From the user point of view the client application for upload CAU and the client application for download CAD can just be two expressions of the same application. In an embodiment the client application for upload CAU and or client application for download CAD are Web applications. In another embodiment the client application for upload CAU and or client application for download CAD are native applications. In another embodiment the client application for upload CAU and or client application for download CAD are dedicated hardware pieces. In an embodiment one or both of the client applications client application for upload CAU and client application for download CAD are embedded in an application provided by the social network site server if the application is a Web application the graphical user interface of the client application for upload CAU and or client application for download CAD are rendered as frames embedded in pages delivered by the social network site server . In this case the selection of the social network site is implicit the user first selects the social network site and then access the client application for upload CAU or client application for download CAD for this site.

According to the implementation of the client two main possibilities to implement the distorted visual medium DVM upload request must be supported by the distorted visual medium server DVMS . In a first case the client application for upload CAU has means to create the distorted visual medium DVM by itself. For instance if the client application for upload CAU is an application implemented as a native application on some operating system OS it will be preferred to embed means to create the distorted visual medium DVM in the client application for upload CAU . Else if the client is a Web application running in a standard browser a plug in may be provided but the user will not always agree to install it.

Thus in the case where the client application for upload CAU has no means to create the distorted visual medium DVM the distorted visual medium DVM upload request sent by the client application for upload CAU is implemented as follow. The original visual medium OVM is securely uploaded to the distorted visual medium server DVMS together with the entitlement list EL using a secured connection. The distorted visual medium server DVMS applies the applied distortion effect ADE to create the distorted visual medium DVM and recomposition objects RO or only several distorted visual media according to corresponding degradation levels.

Since the purpose of the invention is to support the upload and download of distorted visual medium DVM to any social network site regardless of the specific integration of the social network site with the distorted visual medium server DVMS . If the social network site server provides means to the distorted visual medium server DVMS to upload visual media then the distorted visual medium server DVMS simply uploads the distorted visual medium DVM to the social network site server using said means. It receives an identifier of the uploaded distorted visual medium DVM at the social network site. It may happen that the social network site server provides specific means to the client application at the posting user side whereas these means are not available to the distorted visual medium server DVMS or the social network site server rejects connections from such a server. In this case the distorted visual medium server DVMS sends back the created distorted visual medium DVM to the client application for upload CAU . The client application for upload CAU automatically uploads it to the social network site server using the usual means it provides for uploads of visual media. It gets back the identifier of the uploaded distorted visual medium DVM at the social network site and sends this identifier back to the distorted visual medium server DVMS .

In all cases once the distorted visual medium server DVMS received the identifier of the uploaded distorted visual medium DVM at the social network site it creates the entitlement object EO encapsulating the entitlement list EL and the posting user identifier. It stores the corresponding recomposition object RO if necessary and entitlement object EO together with said distorted visual medium DVM identifier.

In the client application for upload CAU uploads a the original visual medium OVM and entitlement list EL to the distorted visual medium server DVMS which builds the distorted visual medium DVM and the recomposition object RO and entitlement object EO then forwards b distorted visual medium DVM to the social network site server SNS . The client application for download CAD gets c the distorted visual medium DVM from the social network site server SNS .

In the case where the client application for upload CAU has means to create the distorted visual medium DVM the distorted visual medium DVM upload request sent by the client application for upload CAU is implemented as follow. The client application for upload CAU applies the selected applied distortion effect ADE itself to produce the distorted visual medium DVM and recomposition object RO .

If the client application for upload CAU uploads the distorted visual medium DVM to the social network site server using the usual means the social network site provides for uploads of visual media it gets back the identifier of the uploaded distorted visual medium DVM at the social network site and sends this identifier to the distorted visual medium server DVMS with the recomposition objects RO and entitlement list EL . Else the client application for upload CAU may just send the distorted visual medium DVM the recomposition objects RO and the entitlement list EL to the distorted visual medium server DVMS and it is the distorted visual medium server DVMS which uploads the distorted visual medium DVM to the social network site server and receives the distorted visual medium DVM identifier. The recomposition objects RO and entitlement list EL are sent through a secure connection. At the end the distorted visual medium server DVMS creates the entitlement object EO encapsulating the entitlement list EL and the posting user identifier. It stores the corresponding recomposition object RO and entitlement object EO together with said distorted visual medium DVM identifier.

In all cases the invention may be sum up as follow it consists in a server which has means to store recomposition objects RO and entitlement object EO securely to associate them with distorted visual medium DVM uploaded in a social network site server and to provide clear visual medium CVM when a download request is received from an entitled user.

In an embodiment the applied distortion effect ADE selection is augmented with the selection of a distortion level in another embodiment the effect is fixed and only the distortion level defines the effect and can be tuned by the client application. In yet another embodiment the distortion effect can be applied to a part of the original visual medium OVM only. In that case the distorted part can be defined by the posting user or it is automatically computed for instance by using a visual media analysis algorithm e.g. to recognize faces or text and applying the distortion effect only on part detected by said algorithm.

If there exists an operation of recomposition that can build the clear visual medium CVM from the distorted visual medium DVM and the recomposition object RO the applied distortion effect ADE will be said to be reversible. In the case where the applied distortion effect ADE is reversible it is preferred that the distorted visual medium server DVMS stores an encrypted version of the recomposition objects RO . By doing so a malevolent attacker of the distorted visual medium server DVMS storage system will not be able to recompose clear visual medium CVM . The recomposition objects RO decryption key is stored in the entitlement object EO and the distorted visual medium server DVMS must only provide ways to protect the entitlement object EO but has not to protect the storage of the distorted visual medium DVM and recomposition objects RO .

In that case and if the social network site server does not guarantee that its method of visual medium storage does preserve the stored medium the distorted visual medium server DVMS must additionally store the distorted visual medium DVM with the recomposition objects RO and entitlement object EO . Indeed it can happen that the recomposition operation will not work with the distorted visual medium DVM stored by and retrieved from the social network site server. By storing the distorted visual medium DVM the distorted visual medium server DVMS will always be able to recompose the clear visual medium CVM .

The distorted visual medium server DVMS implements download with methods adapted to the previous cases. The download is the response to the client application for download CAD entitlement requests in the case where the requesting user is entitled to access the clear visual medium CVM . Following such a request a clear visual medium CVM must be available to the client application for download CAD . Symmetrically to previous client application for upload CAU implementation cases the client application for download CAD may have means to perform the recomposition operation native application or Web browser equipped with convenient plug in or may not.

If the client application for download CAD has means to perform the recomposition operation the distorted visual medium server DVMS sends a suitable recomposition object RO . If the recomposition object RO is not encrypted it sends it through a secure connection. If a recomposition object RO is encrypted the distorted visual medium server DVMS may use a non secure connection to send the recomposition object RO and then sends through a secure connection the decryption key found in the bound entitlement object EO . The distorted visual medium server DVMS also sends the distorted visual medium DVM if the recomposition operation has to use it i.e. if the applied distortion effect ADE is reversible .

In that case another embodiment is possible. The client application for download CAD may implement means to browse directly the albums found in the social network site without using the display means provided by the social network site server. If the client application for download CAD detects a distorted visual medium DVM and that the user is entitled to see the related clear visual medium CVM then the client application for download CAD automatically builds the clear visual medium CVM in that case the entitled users never see the distorted version.

If the client application for download CAD has no means to perform the recomposition operation the distorted visual medium server DVMS performs the operation and then sends the clear visual medium CVM or a visual medium degraded according to user access level through a secure connection.

In an embodiment the entitlement objects EO is encrypted with a user private key possibly using asymmetric encryption. The previous methods must be adapted to this embodiment as follows. First it is necessary the client application for upload CAU has means to manage encryption of entitlement object EO and the client application for download CAD has means to manage decryption of entitlement object EO . In turn it necessitates the client application for upload CAU has means to build the entitlement object EO that includes the appropriate recomposition object RO encryption key the decryption of the entitlement object EO gives access to the key encrypting the recomposition object RO and the decryption of the recomposition object RO allows building the distorted visual medium server DVMS . Thus this encryption approach makes sense only in the case where the client application for upload CAU has means to build the distorted visual medium DVM and the client application for download CAD has means to recompose the clear visual medium CVM .

At the end of the upload operation the client application for upload CAU builds the entitlement object EO by itself encrypts it with the user key and sends the resulting encrypted entitlement object EO to the distorted visual medium server DVMS . Since the distorted visual medium server DVMS may not read the encrypted entitlement object EO it cannot grant or deny access to the clear visual medium CVM to entitlement requesting users. Then the management of entitlement requests is adapted as follows. The client application for download CAD of the requesting user sends a public key of the requesting user with the entitlement request. Upon the reception of such a request the distorted visual medium server DVMS notifies the posting user and inserts the requesting user public key and the encrypted entitlement object EO in the notification. Upon handling of such a notification by the posting user the client application for download CAD decrypts the entitlement object EO with the user private key and if the user accepts to grant access to the clear visual medium CVM the client application for download CAD sends an authorization object AO to the distorted visual medium server DVMS for the requesting user this authorization object AO is encrypted with the key of the requesting user and contains the key encrypting the recomposition object RO that was found into the entitlement object EO . The distorted visual medium server DVMS notifies the requesting user and inserts the recomposition object RO and authorization object AO in the notification. Eventually the client application for download CAD of the requesting user upon handling of the notification decrypts the authorization object AO gets the recomposition object RO decryption key decrypts the recomposition object RO and uses it to build the clear visual medium CVM or a visual medium degraded according to user access level.

The core of the invention is the introduction and mastering of a distortion effect and of the use of a server that is in charge of providing the features the social network site server is not providing while enabling the usual posting facilities.

The first problem help the user to post a visual medium quickly in any album while being sure the posted visual medium cannot be seen by unwanted people and while people she could have forgot to entitle can yet see there is a posted visual medium that could interest them and request it easily is solved by the fact that the distorted visual medium DVM is visible by all users entitled to access the user album on the social network site. This is the case thanks to the fact the distorted visual medium DVM has the same format as the posted visual media supported by the social network site server. It can be easily posted using the same mechanism than the one used for the usual clear visual medium as supplied by the social network provider.

The posting action is quick indeed. The user who wishes to post a visual medium must just choose through the client application for upload CAU to distort the original visual medium to be posted. The user can also set a parameter telling that posted visual media are distorted by default so that the posting process is not more cumbersome than in the clear case. Then the posting user may define in the entitlement list EL which of his friends is entitled to access to the clear visual medium. This is not more cumbersome than defining limited access to the clear visual medium in the usual case.

To the user who notices the posted distorted visual medium DVM on the social network site and wants to see the clear visual medium CVM the system provides means to easily request the clear visual medium CVM . If the user is already entitled to see the clear visual medium CVM the request immediately results in the display of the clear visual medium CVM . Thus the visualization of clear visual medium CVM just takes one more click than in the usual case of not protected media. If the client application for download CAD has means to recompose clear visual medium CVM and to browse user s albums this step may even be removed for entitled users.

Since it is only the distorted visual medium DVM which is stored by the social network site server the second problem ensure the user that only versions of visual media that are not visible in the clear by a human eye or a machine are stored and can be accessed by automatic processes and any mechanism or people that would have access to the databases of visual media is solved no attacker of the social network site may access the clear visual medium CVM . With the protection of recomposition object RO ensured by the distorted visual medium server DVMS attackers of the distorted visual medium server DVMS can neither access the clear visual medium CVM .

The third problem let the visual media propagate while keeping control on its access to let any user access the knowledge there is an interesting visual medium and even let him guess that this visual medium could be nice or interesting by watching a certain version of the visual medium not only textual information about the existence of such visual medium is solved by the fact that the distorted visual medium DVM is visible by all users entitled to access the user album on the social network site. As a result of the posting of the distorted visual medium DVM by the distorted visual medium server DVMS the distorted visual medium DVM is visible on the social network site by any user who has access to the posting user s albums. But the distorted visual medium DVM by nature is a distorted version of the original visual medium OVM that still makes sense as a visual medium but hides the important information.

The fourth problem provide fun to the user in the pragmatic and potentially boring task of setting distortion and access entitlements of posted visual media is solved by letting the posting user play with different distortion effects and or different distortion levels. The distortion level may be seen as a control on the enticing effect.

Moreover the notification mechanism adds interactions between users which is just the basis and goal of social networking. Thus fun for users is ensured in the very core of the social network activity.

The above described embodiments include one recomposition object RO for reconstructing a clear visual medium from a distorted visual medium. In the case where more than one access levels are defined corresponding recomposition objects have to be defined for creating visual media from a maximal degraded visual medium according to available access levels.

According to the first embodiment the original visual medium is distorted by the distorted visual medium server DVMS in such a way to obtain a number of degraded visual media according to the number of levels corresponding to the one of available access levels. To each access level corresponds a degradation level of the visual media. The different distorted visual media are stored in a memory of the distorted medium server as well as the original visual medium and the list EL of the entitled users. When an entitled user identified by the list EL stored in the distorted visual medium server DVMS requests a download of a visual medium the distorted visual medium server delivers either a visual media corresponding to the original one degradation level zero or a visual medium degraded according to the access level degradation level 0 defined by the posting user in the entitlement list EL .

According to the second embodiment the original visual medium is distorted by the distorted visual medium server DVMS in such a way to obtain a maximal degraded visual medium. The distorted visual medium server DVMS further generates a number of recomposition objects corresponding to the number of access levels respectively degradation levels of the visual medium. The original visual medium the maximal degraded visual object the recomposition objects and the entitlement list E are store stored in a memory of the distorted visual medium server DVMS . When an entitled user identified by the list EL stored in the distorted visual medium server DVMS requests a download of a visual medium the distorted visual medium server reconstructs either a visual media corresponding to the original one degradation level zero or a visual medium degraded according to the access level degradation level 0 defined by the posting user in the entitlement list EL .

As shown in the original image is transformed into a scrambled image . This image is defined as scrambling image given that it comprises a plurality of blocks which have been scrambled. According to the invention the scrambled image is a scalable image comprising several levels of degradation shown in this Figure by the different grey levels of the scrambled blocks .

Referring to the scrambling operation is now explained in more detail in the case of JPEG encoding format according to a preferred embodiment of the method of the present invention. Overall the scrambling operation aims to substitute original data by other data which are denoted luring data or fake data. Each block of the original image is made of a matrix of DC and AC coefficients in particular one DC coefficient and a plurality of AC coefficients . The DC coefficient Direct Coefficient is the first coefficient of the block on the top left of the matrix i.e. at the position 0 0 marked by a small black spot in . The DC coefficients of all blocks are encoded in the differential manner according to the JPEG standard. Therefore the blocks are dependent on each other. This dependency can affect the whole image or groups of successive blocks separated by a special syntax element in the encoded image namely a Restart Marker. Restart Markers act as separator the very first DC coefficient following a Restart Marker being encoded independently the successive DC ones being again encoded differently until the occurrence of the next Restart Marker or the end of image.

The DC coefficient represents an average intensity of its block and therefore refers to an average of the quantity of the matrix of the coefficients. The AC coefficients are the remaining elements of the matrix. From the top left to the bottom right the AC coefficients represent respectively the low to high frequency factors in the 2 dimensional space.

According to an embodiment several blocks of original image marked as P . . . P P P P P and P in will be scrambled.

According to a preferred embodiment the structure of the original image and original DC coefficients extracted from the aforementioned blocks are shown in . The original DC coefficients in the targeted blocks located at positions P P P P P and P are replaced with luring coefficients . The value of the luring coefficient can be generated for example according to a random process. The values of original DC coefficients and the locations of their blocks i.e. positions P P . . . within the image are saved in the original data in a form of 2 tuple data. For instance the 2 tuple data DC P in refers to the original value of the DC coefficient of the block located at position P. All the 2 tuple data of the original data are arranged into a plurality of control objects CO CO CO which are independently incorporated into the descrambling process later on to reconstruct the image with different level of degradation. Each time a block of coefficients is lured by at least one luring coefficient original data namely the original coefficient which has been substituted by the luring coefficient must be stored i.e. saved in view of a reverse process aiming to recover at least a partially descrambled image.

According to the present method the first step of the scrambling operation is to receive the original image structured according to a predefined coding format so as to be readable by common players. Preferably this coding format refers to a differential coding so that a current DC coefficient of a certain block can be determined e.g. by subtracting the value of the non encoded previous DC coefficient to the value of non encoded current DC coefficient.

Then the second step refers to the substitution of a plurality of DC coefficients by luring coefficients of the same nature so as to maintain this coding format. It means that on the one hand there is no intention to mix the blocks or the pixels within the image but the scrambling effect is obtained by altering certain blocks in particular by substituting original DC coefficients with luring coefficients to get lured coefficients while retaining their position within the image and on the other hand that luring coefficients are conform to the syntax of the image format syntax of the used codec so as to be readable by common players. The substituted DC coefficients i.e. lured DC coefficients are identified by positions P P P P P and P in the example of .

As shown in the middle of referring to the third step of scrambling operation each of these substituted DC coefficients i.e. the values of these coefficients together with their respective position within the image is stored as original data into at least two control object CO CO. In the example of three control objects CO CO CO are used for storing the original data each 2 tuple data formed by the original value of the DC coefficient and its position P. According to the embodiment disclosed in this figure the first control object CO comprises all of the original data namely the six original DC coefficients also denoted DCo and their position P. The second control object CO only comprises a subset of original data of the first control object CO namely the values DCo of the original DC coefficients located at positions P P P P. The last control object CO also comprises a subset of the original data present in one of the previous control objects CO CO in particular original DC coefficients of positions P and P.

Each control objects CO CO CO corresponds to a degradation level of the original image since the first control object CO comprises all the required original data to recover the original image whereas each of the other control objects CO CO only comprises a specific part of all the original data. The degradation level of the third control object CO is therefore higher than the degradation levels of the two other control objects CO and CO.

According to a further embodiment in which the syntax elements SEs of blocks are made of quantizers instead of DC AC coefficients the substitution is applied to the quantizers in the quantification table. Because the quantification table is a global parameter of the JPEG format modifying its quantizers affects all blocks of the compressed image. Therefore the 2 tuple data in the original data no longer contain the position of the affected block. Instead they consist of the original quantizer and its index location in the quantization table. For instance a possible original data can be Ql l which refers to an original value Q of a quantizer at the location l l 0 . . . 63 of the quantization table. A control object CON containing only the quantizer at the lower location l scaler of low frequency coefficients produces more degradation than those having the quantizer at higher location l corresponding to high frequency coefficients .

The descrambling operation made as a pseudo reverse operation after the above scrambling operation is schematically shown in . The first step of the descrambling operation is to receive the scrambled image on the one hand and the control objects CO CO CO on the other hand either by the same channel or by two different channels data streams . All the control objects are used as input for the descrambling operation. The second step refers to select at least one of these control objects on the basis of a user access level . The user access level can be regarded as a parameter that is specific for a certain user. It defines the remaining degradation level of the reconstructed image i.e. the quality of the descrambled image after the descrambling operation. The user access level can be provided to the descrambling operation as a specific input each time the user wants to access to a scrambled image. Alternatively the user access level can be stored in a memory of the device which performs the descrambling operation.

As shown as example in the user access level refers to the control object CO namely to original data corresponding to positions P P P and P of the image . According to the embodiment illustrated in this figure the control object CO comprising the original data allows to restore original DC coefficients located at these four positions. Consequently the luring coefficients located at positions P and P cannot be removed given that original data of these two coefficients are not comprised in the control object CO but in the control object CO which is not designated by the user access level . As a result the reconstructed image still comprises two lured blocks of coefficients as shown in . Therefore the descrambling image is not the same quality as the original image .

According to a further embodiment the visual medium may be distorted respectively degraded by down sampling i.e. lowering the resolution to values corresponding to degradation levels defined by access levels related to the visual medium. In the schematic example illustrated by the visual medium in form of an image bitmap A is downsized by half from 6 6 pixels to 3 3 pixels forming the degraded image B. It means that four pixels in a square are converted into groups G G G . . . G representing a single pixel in the degraded image B. The conversion may be performed by taking either the maximum value or the minimum value or the average value of the four pixels. The down sampling can be carried out on any size or resolution of an image by forming groups formed by a square or a rectangle of a number of adjacent pixels depending on the degradation level to attribute on the original image. An important degradation or a high level of degradation of the image results to a low resolution so that the image becomes unrecognizable. A similar down sampling mechanism is used for compressing images or video sequences notably according to JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group standard. It has to be noted that the down sampling is performed only on images in form of bitmaps but not on images compressed in JPEG format for example.

The visual medium distorted or degraded by down sampling may be reconstructed by using the recomposition object RO comprising the algorithm and the parameters to be applied on the distorted visual medium to obtain a visual medium in full resolution or in a lower resolution determined according to the access levels. The resolution of the reconstructed visual medium will be thus equivalent or lower than the one of the original visual medium in order to present an acceptable visual quality contrarily to the degraded visual medium.

