---

title: Methods for identifying and using organ-specific proteins in blood
abstract: The present invention relates generally to methods for identifying organ-specific secreted proteins and for identifying organ-specific molecular blood fingerprints therefrom. As such, the present invention provides compositions comprising such proteins, detection reagents for detecting such proteins, and panels, and arrays for determining organ-specific molecular blood fingerprints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09234895&OS=09234895&RS=09234895
owner: Institute for Systems Biology
number: 09234895
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120808
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 342 366 filed 27 Jan. 2006 which claims priority from U.S. provisional application 60 647 685 filed 27 Jan. 2005 and U.S. provisional application 60 683 071 filed 20 May 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. P50 CA097186 and P01 CA085857 awarded by the National Cancer Institute. The government may have certain rights in this invention.

The entire content of the following electronic submission of the sequence listing via the USPTO EFS WEB server as authorized and set forth in MPEP 1730 II.B.2 a C is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. The sequence listing is identified on the electronically filed text file as follows 

The present invention relates generally to methods for identifying organ specific proteins that are secreted into the blood. The invention further relates to methods of diagnosis and methods of use of such proteins.

The ability to detect the onset of disease very early has been a longtime goal of the diagnostic field. Early detection will in most cases permit the disease to be effectively dealt with. For example with most cancers early detection would permit a patient to be cured by conventional therapies chemotherapy radiation surgery . Hence early diagnosis is the cornerstone of dealing effectively with many diseases.

Differentially expressed proteins particularly proteins found in blood may serve as biological markers that can be measured for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. Different approaches for measuring blood proteins have been used with varying degrees of success. In particular two dimensional 2 DE gel electrophoresis is widely used for analysis of proteomic patterns in blood and other tissues. However several limitations restrict its utility in diagnostic proteomics. First because 2 DE gels are limited to spatial resolution it is difficult to resolve large numbers of proteins such as are expressed in the average cell 1 000 to 10 000 proteins or even worse blood. High abundance proteins can distort carrier ampholyte gradients in capillary isoelectric focusing electrophoresis CGE and result in crowding in the gel matrix of size sieving electrophoretic methods e.g. the second dimension of 2 DE gel electrophoresis and CGE thus causing irreproducibility in the spatial pattern of resolved proteins see e.g. Corthals G. L. et al. 18 317 1997 . Lopez M. F. and W. F. Patton 18 338 1997 . Note for example that albumen constitutes about 51 of the blood protein. Indeed 22 proteins constitute about 99 of the blood protein and most of these will not be useful diagnostic markers those will be present in the 1 of the remaining proteins that are often hidden by the abundant proteins. High abundance proteins can also precipitate in a gel and cause streaking of fractionated proteins Corthals G. L. et al. supra . Variations in the crosslinking density and electric field strength in cast gels can further distort the spatial pattern of resolved proteins. Another problem is the inability to resolve low abundance proteins neighboring high abundance proteins in a gel because of the high staining background and limited dynamic range of gel staining and imaging techniques. Limitations with staining also make it difficult to obtain reproducible and quantifiable protein concentration values with average standard variations in relative protein abundance between replicate 2 DE gels reported to be 20 and as high as 45 Anderson L. and J. Seilhamer 18 533 1997 . For example investigators were only able to match 62 of the spots formed on 3 7 gels run under similar conditions Lopez M. F. and W. F. Patton supra see also Blomber A. et al. 16 1935 1995 and Corbett J. M. et al. 15 1205 1994 . Additionally many proteins are not soluble in buffers compatible with acrylamide gels or fail to enter the gel efficiently because of their high molecular weight see e.g. Ramsby M. et al. 15 265 1994 .

Thus a major stumbling block in the diagnostic proteomic analysis of the blood is the high degree of complexity of the blood proteome. Another major challenge is the large dynamic range across which proteins are expressed about 10e. This means that one protein may be present at one copy in a given volume whereas another may be present at 10ecopies. Additionally pattern analysis using techniques such as 2 DGE and other similar techniques has been problematic primarily as a result of the irreproducibility of the gel patterns inability to detect very low abundance proteins difficulty in quantitating the individual spots e.g. proteins that make up a complex proteomic pattern and the inability to identify the individual proteins that constitute the complex pattern. Further the ability to extend these techniques to easy consistent and high throughput diagnostic assays has been extremely limited. Thus there is a need in the art to provide such diagnostic assays. The present invention provides for methods and assays that fulfill these and other needs.

One aspect of the invention provides a method for identifying organ specific proteins secreted into the blood comprising generating a signature sequence from transcripts from a sample from a specific organ identifying transcripts that are specifically expressed in the organ identifying from the transcripts in b those transcripts that encode secreted proteins and thereby identifying organ specific proteins secreted into the blood.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for identifying organ specific proteins secreted into the blood comprising generating a signature sequence from substantially all transcripts from a sample from a specific organ comparing the signature sequences to a database of known sequences to determine the identity of the transcript comparing the identified transcripts to transcripts expressed in other organs removing any transcripts that are substantially expressed in other organs identifying computationally from the remaining transcripts those that encode a signal peptide confirming the presence of the secreted proteins in a blood sample and thereby identifying organ specific proteins secreted into the blood.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method for diagnosing a biological condition in a subject comprising measuring the level of a plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood of the subject wherein the plurality of organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ and wherein the levels of the plurality of organ specific proteins together provide a diagnostic fingerprint for the biological condition in the subject. In one embodiment of the method the level of the plurality of organ specific proteins is measured using any one or more methods such as mass spectrometry an immunoassay such as an ELISA Western blot microfluidics nanotechnology sensors and aptamer capture assay. In this regard an aptamer may be used in a similar manner to an antibody in a variety of appropriate binding assays known to the skilled artisan and described herein. In certain embodiments the plurality of organ specific proteins is measured using tandem mass spectrometry or other spectrometry based techniques. In one embodiment the plurality of organ specific proteins comprises from at least about 1 or 2 organ specific proteins to about 100 150 160 170 180 190 200 or more organ specific proteins. In this regard the plurality of organ specific proteins may comprise at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more organ specific proteins. The plurality of organ specific proteins may comprise about 10 or 20 organ specific proteins. In one embodiment the organ specific proteins comprise prostate specific proteins. In one embodiment the prostate specific proteins are selected from the proteins listed in Table 4 and Table 5. In other embodiments the organ specific proteins may be from any organ such as liver kidney breast ovary etc. In one embodiment the method is used to diagnose any of a variety of biological conditions such as cancer. In this regard the cancer can be any cancer such as but not limited to brain cancer bladder cancer prostate cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer liver cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer kidney cancer and colon cancer. In a further embodiment the biological condition is any one or combination of the following cardiovascular disease metabolic disease infectious disease genetic disease autoimmune disease and immune related disease.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a method for determining the presence or absence of disease in a subject comprising detecting a level of each of a plurality of organ specific proteins in a blood sample from the subject wherein the plurality of organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ comparing the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood sample from the subject to a level of the plurality of organ specific proteins in a normal control sample of blood wherein an altered level of one or more of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood is indicative of the presence or absence of disease. As would be readily appreciated by the skilled artisan an altered level can mean an increase in the level or a decrease in the level. In this regard the skilled artisan would readily appreciate that a variety of statistical tests can be used to determine if an altered level is significant. The Z test Man M. Z. et al. 16 953 959 2000 or other appropriate statistical tests can be used to calculate P values for comparison of protein expression levels. In certain embodiments the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood sample from the subject is compared to a previously determined normal control level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins taking into account standard deviation. In one embodiment the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins is detected using any one or more of a variety of methods such as but not limited to mass spectrometry and immunoassays. In certain embodiments the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins is measured using mass spectrometry e.g. tandem mass spectrometry or an immunoassay such as an ELISA. In an additional embodiment the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins is measured using an antibody array.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a method for detecting perturbation of a normal biological state comprising contacting a blood sample with a plurality of detection reagents each specific for an organ specific protein secreted into blood wherein each organ specific protein is secreted from the same organ measuring the amount of the organ specific protein detected in the blood sample by each detection reagent comparing the amount of the organ specific protein detected in the blood sample by each detection reagent to a predetermined control amount for each organ specific protein wherein a statistically significant altered level in one or more of the organ specific proteins indicates a perturbation in the normal biological state. Thus in one embodiment the predetermined control amount is determined from one or more normal blood samples. The skilled artisan would readily appreciate that a variety of statistical tests can be used to determine if an altered level of a given protein is significant. The Z test Man M. Z. et al. 16 953 959 2000 or other appropriate statistical tests can be used to calculate P values for comparison of protein expression levels. In certain embodiments the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood sample from the subject is compared to a previously determined normal control level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins taking into account standard deviation see e.g. U.S. Patent Application No. 20020095259 . In an additional embodiment the plurality of detection reagents comprises from at least about 2 detection reagents to about 100 150 160 170 180 190 200 or more detection reagents. In a further embodiment the plurality of detection reagents comprises about 5 10 or about 20 detection reagents. In one embodiment the organ specific proteins comprise prostate specific proteins liver specific proteins or breast specific proteins. In this regard the organ specific proteins can be from any organ tissue cell or system as described further herein.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a diagnostic panel for determining the presence or absence of disease in a subject comprising a plurality of detection reagents each specific for detecting one of a plurality of organ specific proteins present in a blood sample wherein the organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ and wherein detection of the plurality of organ specific proteins with the plurality of detection reagents results in a fingerprint indicative of the presence or absence of disease in the subject. As noted elsewhere herein the term subject is intended to include humans Thus as further described herein the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint is unique for a given disease and further for a given stage of the disease and thus is a powerful diagnostic indicator. In one embodiment the detection reagents comprise antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof. In a further embodiment the antibodies are monoclonal antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof. In one embodiment the panel comprises one or more detection reagents. In yet a further embodiment the plurality of detection reagents comprises from at least about 1 detection reagent to about 100 150 160 170 180 190 200 or more detection reagents. In yet a further embodiment the plurality of detection reagents comprises at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 detection reagents. In certain embodiments the plurality of detection reagents comprises about 5 10 or 20 detection reagents. In an additional embodiment the organ specific proteins comprise prostate specific liver specific or breast specific proteins. As would be recognized by the skilled artisan upon reading the present disclosure the organ specific protein may be derived from any organ tissue cell as described further herein. In a further embodiment the panel is used for determining the presence or absence of a cancer. In this regard the panel can be used to determine the presence or absence of any cancer including but not limited to any one or more of prostate cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer liver cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer kidney cancer and colon cancer. In an additional embodiment the panel can be used to determine the presence or absence of any disease including but not limited to the following diseases cardiovascular disease metabolic disease infectious disease genetic disease autoimmune disease immune related disease neurological disease and cancer.

An additional aspect of the present invention provides an assay device comprising a panel of detection reagents wherein each detection reagent in the panel with the exception of a negative and positive control is capable of specific interaction with one of a plurality of organ specific proteins secreted into the blood wherein the plurality of organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ and wherein the pattern of interaction between the detection reagents and the organ specific proteins present in a blood sample is indicative of a biological condition. In certain embodiments the pattern of interaction is the combination of a snapshot of sorts of the different quantitative levels of the organ specific proteins detected. Thus in certain embodiments the pattern of interaction is a set of numbers each number corresponding to a level of a particular organ specific protein. This set of numbers and the specific organ specific proteins that they correspond to together make up the pattern of interaction e.g. fingerprint that defines a biological condition.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a method for diagnosing a biological condition in a subject comprising measuring the level of a plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood of the subject wherein the organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ or specific to the same organ and wherein the levels of the plurality of organ specific proteins together provide a fingerprint for the biological condition in the subject thereby diagnosing the biological condition. In one embodiment a statistically significant altered level in one or more of the organ specific proteins as compared to a predetermined normal level classifies the subject as having a perturbation from the normal biological state. In this regard identifying altered levels in one or more of the organ specific proteins as compared to predetermined normal levels can be used for classifying subjects by disease and disease stage or generally as having a perturbation from the normal biological state. In a further embodiment the fingerprint is measured in the blood serum or plasma of the subject. In certain embodiments the plurality of organ specific proteins comprises at least 2 or more organ specific proteins. In this regard the plurality of organ specific comprises about 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 organ specific proteins. In certain embodiments the biological condition affects the prostate and wherein the organ specific proteins are prostate specific proteins. In a further embodiment the biological condition affects the breast and wherein the organ specific proteins are breast specific proteins. In yet a further embodiment the biological condition comprises a cancer. In this regard a cancer may include but is not limited to prostate cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer liver cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer kidney cancer or colon cancer. In another embodiment the biological condition may include but is not limited to cardiovascular disease metabolic disease infectious disease genetic disease autoimmune disease immune related disease neurological disease and cancer.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for diagnosing a biological condition in a subject comprising measuring the level of one or more organ specific proteins in the blood of the subject wherein the organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ and wherein the levels of the one or more organ specific proteins together provide a fingerprint for the biological condition in the subject thereby diagnosing the biological condition.

A further aspect of the invention provides a method for determining the presence or absence of disease in a subject comprising a detecting the level of each of a plurality of organ specific proteins in a blood sample from the subject wherein the plurality of organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ b comparing said level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood sample from the subject to a previously determined normal level of each of the plurality of each organ specific protein wherein a statistically significant altered level of one or more of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood of the subject as compared to the previously determined normal level is indicative of the presence or absence of disease. In this regard the plurality of organ specific proteins may be detected using any method described herein such as mass spectrometry or an immunoassay. In one embodiment the plurality of organ specific proteins is measured using an antibody array.

A further aspect of the invention provides a method for detecting perturbation of a normal biological state in a subject comprising a contacting a blood sample from the subject with a plurality of detection reagents each specific for an organ specific protein secreted into blood wherein each organ specific protein is secreted from the same organ b measuring the amount of the organ specific protein detected in the blood sample by each detection reagent c comparing the amount of the organ specific protein detected in the blood sample by each detection reagent to a predetermined control amount for each respective organ specific protein wherein a statistically significant altered level in one or more of the organ specific proteins indicates a perturbation in the normal biological state.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for detecting perturbation of a normal biological state in a subject comprising a contacting a blood sample with one or more detection reagents wherein the one or more detection reagents are each specific for an organ specific protein secreted into blood wherein the organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ b measuring the amount of the organ specific protein detected in the blood sample by the one or more detection reagents c comparing the amount of the organ specific protein detected in the blood sample by the one or more detection reagents to a predetermined control amount for each respective organ specific protein wherein a statistically significant altered level in the one or more of the organ specific proteins indicates a perturbation in the normal biological state. In this regard the plurality of detection reagents may comprises about 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 detection reagents. In one embodiment the perturbation from normal comprises perturbation of the prostate the organ specific proteins are prostate specific proteins. In another embodiment the perturbation comprises perturbation of the liver and the organ specific proteins are liver specific proteins. In yet a further embodiment the perturbation comprises perturbation of the breast and the organ specific proteins are breast specific proteins. In this regard the perturbation may comprise a perturbation of any organ as described herein.

Another aspect of the invention provides a diagnostic panel for determining the presence or absence of disease in a subject comprising a plurality of detection reagents each specific for detecting one of a plurality of organ specific proteins present in a blood sample wherein the organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ and wherein detection of the plurality of organ specific proteins with the plurality of detection reagents results in a fingerprint indicative of the presence or absence of disease in the subject. In one embodiment the detection reagents comprise antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof and in certain embodiments the antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof are monoclonal antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof.

A further aspect of the invention provides a diagnostic panel for determining the presence or absence of disease in a subject comprising one or more detection reagents each specific for detecting an organ specific protein present in a blood sample wherein the organ specific proteins are secreted from the same organ and wherein detection of the one or more organ specific proteins with the one or more of detection reagents results in a fingerprint indicative of the presence or absence of disease in the subject. In one embodiment the plurality of detection reagents comprises about 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 detection reagents. In a further embodiment the organ specific proteins comprise prostate specific proteins liver specific proteins breast specific proteins. In another embodiment the disease comprises a cancer. In this regard the cancer may include but is not limited to prostate cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer liver cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer kidney cancer or colon cancer. In another embodiment the disease may include but is not limited to cardiovascular disease metabolic disease infectious disease genetic disease autoimmune disease immune related disease neurological disease or cancer.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for identifying organ specific proteins secreted or shed into the blood comprising generating a signature sequence from transcripts from a sample from a specific organ identifying transcripts that are specifically expressed in the organ identifying from the transcripts in b those transcripts that encode secreted proteins thereby identifying organ specific proteins secreted or shed into the blood.

A further aspect of the invention provides a method for identifying organ specific proteins secreted or shed into the blood comprising generating a signature sequence from transcripts from a sample from a specific organ identifying transcripts that are expressed in the specific organ at at least 1.5 fold as compared to the level of expression of the transcript observed in other organs identifying from the transcripts in b those transcripts that encode secreted proteins thereby identifying organ specific proteins secreted or shed into the blood.

Another aspect of the invention provides a computer system for processing data relating to organ specific molecular blood fingerprints comprising means operable to receive input identifying an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint database the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint database being a computer readable collection of information about a set of organ specific molecular blood fingerprints the set including defined normal blood fingerprints from normal samples and defined disease blood fingerprints from samples from individuals diagnosed with a particular disease means operable to receive organ specific fingerprint information from a subject means operable to use the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint database and the organ specific fingerprint information from the subject to match the subject fingerprint to a disease fingerprint to a normal fingerprint or to identify a fingerprint that is perturbed from normal but does not match to a disease fingerprint in the database.

SEQ ID NOs 3 72 are MPSS signature sequences that correspond to differentially expressed genes in LNCaP cells early prostate cancer phenotype to androgen independent CL1 cells late prostate cancer phenotype see Table 1 .

SEQ ID NOs 73 593 are MPSS signature sequences that correspond to differentially expressed genes in prostate cancer cell lines LNCaP and CL1 that encode secreted proteins see Table 3 .

SEQ ID NOs 594 1511 are the GENBANK sequences of differentially expressed genes that encode predicted secreted proteins as referred to in Table 3. Both polynucleotide and amino acid sequences are provided for each GENBANK accession number.

SEQ ID NOs 1512 1573 are the amino acid sequences from GENBANK of prostate specific proteins potentially secreted into blood as described in Table 4.

SEQ ID NOs 1574 1687 are the GENBANK sequences of examples of differentially expressed genes as described in Table 1. Both polynucleotide and amino acid sequences are provided where available for each GENBANK accession number.

SEQ ID NOs 1688 1796 are MPSS signature sequences that correspond to prostate specific enriched genes as described in Table 5.

SEQ ID NOs 1797 1947 are the GENBANK sequences of prostate specific genes as described in Table 5. Both polynucleotide and amino acid sequences are provided where available for each GENBANK accession number.

A powerful new systems approach to disease is revealing powerful new blood diagnostics approaches. Particularly in specific cells there are protein and gene regulatory networks that mediate the normal functions of the cell. The disease process causes one or more of these networks to be perturbed either genetically or environmentally e.g. infections . The disease altered networks result in altered patterns of protein expression and some of the transcripts with altered expression levels are organ cell specific and some of these organ specific transcripts encode secreted proteins. Thus disease leads to altered expression patterns of organ specific secreted proteins in the blood.

Hence the blood may be viewed as a window into the health and disease of an individual. The levels of organ specific secreted proteins present in the blood taken together represent molecular fingerprints in the blood that reflect the operation of normal organs. Each organ has a specific quantitative molecular fingerprint. When disease attacks an organ that blood fingerprint changes for example in the levels of these proteins expressed in the blood and the change in the fingerprint correlates with the specific disease. The changes in the fingerprints occur as a consequence of virtually any disease or organ perturbation with each disease fingerprint being unique. The changes in the fingerprints are sufficiently informative to carry out disease stratification follow the progression of the particular disease stratification or type and follow responses to therapy. These fingerprints also allow one to stratify patients with regard to their ability to respond to particular therapies and even to visualize adverse effects of drugs. The disease fingerprints are determined by comparing the blood from normal individuals against that from patients with specific diseases at known stages. Not only will the absolute levels of the changes in the proteins constituting individual fingerprints be determined but all the protein changes e.g. N changed proteins will be compared against one another to generate an N dimensional shape space that will correlate even more powerfully with the disease stratifications and progression states described above see e.g. U.S. Patent Application No. 20020095259 .

In the studies described herein the transcriptomes of two prostate cancer cell lines were analyzed LNCaP an androgen sensitive cell line and hence a model for early stage of prostate cancer and a variant of this cell CL1 an androgen unresponsive cell line thus a model for late stage of prostate cancer. Analyses of the transcriptomes of these two cell lines revealed changes in cellular states that occur with the progression of prostate cancer. These transcriptomes were also compared to normal prostate tissue prostate cancer tissues and prostate cancer metastases. These prostate transcriptomes were compared against their counterparts from 29 other tissues to identify those transcripts that are primarily expressed in the prostate. Computational approaches were used to predict which of these transcripts encode secreted proteins. Further a prostate protein referred to as WDR19 that was previously shown by microarray and northern analysis to be prostate specific was used in a multiparameter analysis of prostate cancer samples.

Thus the present invention is generally directed to methods for identifying organ specific secreted proteins present in the blood. The present invention is also directed to methods for defining organ specific molecular blood fingerprints and further provides defined examples of predicted organ specific molecular blood fingerprints. Additionally the present invention is directed to panels of reagents or proteomic techniques employing mass spectrometry that detect organ specific secreted proteins in the blood for use in diagnostics and other settings.

The blood fingerprints described herein enable physicians to develop a powerful new predictive medicine that can serve as one of the cornerstones for a revolution in medicine moving it from a reactive mode treating after the patient is sick to more predictive preventive and personalized modes.

By predefining the components of a given molecular blood fingerprint using the methods described herein the present invention alleviates the need to blindly search for protein patterns using blood proteomics. Thus the present invention enables the skilled artisan to 1 identify blood proteins which collectively constitute unique molecular blood fingerprints for healthy and diseased individuals 2 identify unique fingerprints for each different disease 3 identify fingerprints that can uniquely distinguish the different types of a particular disease e.g. for prostate cancer the ability to distinguish between benign disease slowly growing disease and rapidly metastatic disease 4 identify fingerprints that can reveal the stage of progression of each type of disease and 5 fingerprints that will allow one to assess the response to therapy. Importantly the potential organ specific secreted disease detecting blood fingerprints can be predicted from a combination of quantitative comparative transcriptome studies and computational methods to predict which transcripts encode secreted proteins. The methods for determining the organ specific blood fingerprints for all organs described herein allow disease detection at very early stages since even in the earliest disease stages the cellular networks which control the expression patterns of these blood molecular signatures will be perturbed. Hence the present invention allows detection of virtually any type of disease and detection of each disease at a very early stage.

The invention provides methods for identifying organ specific secreted proteins. In this regard as used herein the term organ is defined as would be understood in the art. Thus the term organ specific as used herein generally refers to proteins or transcripts that are primarily expressed in a single organ. It should be noted that the skilled artisan would readily appreciate upon reading the instant specification that cell specific transcripts and proteins and tissue specific transcripts and proteins are also contemplated in the present invention. As such and as discussed further herein in certain embodiments organ specific protein is defined as a protein encoded by a transcript that is expressed at a level of at least 3 copies million as measured for example by massively parallel signature sequencing MPSS in the cell tissue organ of interest but is expressed at less than 3 copies million in other cells tissues organs. In a further embodiment an organ specific protein is one that is encoded by a transcript that is expressed 95 in one organ and the remaining 5 in one or more other organs. In this context total expression across all organs examined is taken as 100 .

In certain embodiments an organ specific protein is one that is encoded by a transcript that is expressed at about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 to about 90 in one organ and wherein the remaining 10 50 is expressed in one or more other organs. As would be readily recognized by the skilled artisan upon reading the present disclosure in certain embodiments an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint can readily be discerned even if some expression of an organ specific protein from a particular organ is detected at some level in another organ or even more than one organ. For example the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint from prostate can conclusively identify a particular prostate disease and stage of disease despite expression of one or more protein members of the fingerprint in one or more other organs. Thus an organ specific protein as described herein may be predominantly or differentially expressed in an organ of interest rather than uniquely or specifically expressed in the organ. In this regard in certain embodiments differentially expressed means at least 1.5 fold expression in the organ of interest as compared to other organs. In another embodiment differentially expressed means at least 2 fold expression in the organ of interest as compared to expression in other organs. In yet a further embodiment differentially expressed means at least 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 fold or higher expression in the organ of interest as compared to expression of the protein in other organs. As described elsewhere herein protein expression can be determined by analysis of transcript expression using a variety of methods.

In one embodiment the organ specific proteins are identified by preparing a cDNA library from an organ of interest. Any organ of a mammalian body is contemplated herein. Illustrative organs include but are not limited to heart kidney ureter bladder urethra liver prostate heart blood vessels bone marrow skeletal muscle smooth muscle brain amygdala caudate nucleus cerebellum corpus callosum fetal hypothalamus thalamus spinal cord peripheral nerves retina nose trachea lungs mouth salivary gland esophagus stomach small intestines large intestines hypothalamus pituitary thyroid pancreas adrenal glands ovaries oviducts uterus placenta vagina mammary glands testes seminal vesicles penis lymph nodes PBMC thymus and spleen. As noted above upon reading the present disclosure the skilled artisan would recognize that cell specific and tissue specific proteins are contemplated herein and thus proteins specifically expressed in cells or tissues that make up such organs are also contemplated herein. In certain embodiments in each of these organs transcriptomes are obtained for the cell types in which the disease of interest arises. For example in the prostate there are two dominant types of cells epithelial cells and stromal cells. About 98 of prostate cancers arise in epithelial cells. As such in certain embodiments organ specific means the transcripts that are expressed in particular cell types of the organ of interest e.g. prostate epithelial cells . In this regard any cell type that makes up any of the organs described herein is contemplated herein. Illustrative cell types include but are not limited to epithelial cells stromal cells endothelial cells endodermal cells ectodermal cells mesodermal cells lymphocytes e.g. B cells and T cells including CD4 T helper 1 or T helper 2 type cells CD8 cytotoxic T cells erythrocytes keratinocytes and fibroblasts. Particular cell types within organs or tissues may be obtained by histological dissection by the use of specific cell lines e.g. prostate epithelial cell lines by cell sorting or by a variety of other techniques known in the art.

It should be noted that in certain embodiments fingerprints can be determined from organ specific proteins from multiple organs such as from organs that share a common function or make up a system e.g. digestive system circulatory system respiratory system cardiovascular system the immune system including the different cells of the immune system such as but not limited to B cells T cells including CD4 T helper 1 or T helper 2 type cells regulatory T cells CD8 cytotoxic T cells NK cells dendritic cells macrophages monocytes neutrophils granulocytes mast cells etc. the sensory system the skin brain and the nervous system and the like .

Complementary DNA cDNA libraries can be generated using techniques known in the art such as those described in Ausubel et al. 2001 Greene Publ. Assoc. Inc. John Wiley Sons Inc. NY N.Y. Sambrook et al. 1989 Second Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Plainview N.Y. Maniatis et al. 1982 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Plainview N.Y. and elsewhere. Further a variety of commercially available kits for constructing cDNA libraries are useful for making the cDNA libraries of the present invention. Libraries are constructed from organs tissues cells procured from normal subjects.

All or substantially all of the transcripts of the cDNA library e.g. representing virtually or substantially all genes functioning in the organ of interest are cloned and sequenced using any of a variety of techniques known in the art. In this regard in certain embodiments substantially all refers to a sample representing at least 80 of all genes functioning in the organ of interest. In a further embodiment substantially all refers to a sample representing at least 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 or higher of all genes functioning in the organ of interest. In one embodiment substantially all the transcripts from a cDNA library are amplified sorted and signature sequences generated therefrom according to the methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 013 445 6 172 218 6 172 214 6 140 489 and Brenner P. et al. 18 630 634 2000. Briefly polynucleotide templates from a cDNA library of interest are cloned into a vector system that contains a vast set of minimally cross hybridizing oligonucleotide tags see U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 722 . The number of tags is usually at least 100 times greater than the number of cDNA templates see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 013 445 and Brenner P. et al. supra . Thus the set of tags is such that a 1 sample taken of template tag conjugates ensures that essentially every template in the sample is conjugated to a unique tag and that at least one of each of the different template cDNAs is represented in the sample with 99 probability U.S. Pat. No. 6 013 445 and Brenner P. et al. supra . The conjugates are then amplified and hybridized under stringent conditions to microbeads each of which has attached thereto a unique complementary minimally cross hybridizing oligonucleotide tag. The transcripts are then directly sequenced simultaneously in a flow cell using a ligation based sequencing method see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 013 445 . A short signature sequence of about 17 20 base pairs is generated simultaneously from each of the hundreds of thousands of beads or more in the flow cell each having attached thereto copies of a unique transcript from the sample. This technique is termed massively parallel signature sequencing MPSS .

In certain embodiments other techniques may be used to evaluate the transcripts from a particular cDNA library including microarray analysis Han M. et al. 19 631 635 2001 Bao P. et al. 74 1792 1797 2002 Schena et al. 93 10614 19 1996 and Heller et al. 94 2150 55 1997 and SAGE serial analysis of gene expression . Like MPSS SAGE is digital and can generate a large number of signature sequences. see e.g. Velculescu V. E. et al. 16 423 425 2000 Tuteja R. and Tuteja N. 2004 August 26 8 916 22 although the coverage is not nearly as deep as with MPSS.

The resulting sequences e.g. MPSS signature sequences are generally about 20 bases in length. However in certain embodiments the sequences can be about 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 or more bases in length. The sequences are annotated using annotated human genome sequence such as human genome release hg16 released in November 2003 or other public or private databases and the human Unigene Unigene build 184 using methods known in the art such as the method described by Meyers B. C. et al. Genome Res 14 1641 1653 2004. Other databases useful in this regard include Genbank EMBL or other publicly available databases. In certain embodiments transcripts are considered only for those with 100 matches between an MPSS or other type of signature and a genome signature. As would be readily appreciated by the skilled artisan upon reading the present disclosure this is a stringent match criterion and in certain embodiments it may be desirable to use less stringent match criteria. Indeed polymorphisms could lead to variations in transcripts that would be missed if only exact matches were used. For example it may be desirable to consider signature sequences that match a genome signature with 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity. In one embodiment signatures that are expressed at less than 3 transcripts per million in libraries of interest are disregarded as they might not be reliably detected since this in effect represents less than one transcript per cell see for example Jongeneel C. V. et al. 2003 . cDNA signatures are classified by their positions relative to polyadenylation signals and poly A tails and by their orientation relative to the 5 3 orientation of source mRNA. Full length sequences corresponding to the signature sequences can be thus identified.

In order to identify organ specific transcripts the resulting annotated transcripts are compared against public and or private sequence databases such as a variety of annotated human genome sequence databases e.g. Genebank the EMBL and Japanese databases and databases generated and compiled from other normal tissues to identify those transcripts that are expressed primarily in the organ of interest but are not expressed in other organs. As noted elsewhere herein some expression in organs other than the organ of interest does not necessarily preclude the use of a particular transcript in a blood molecular signature panel of the present invention.

Comparisons of the transcripts between databases can be made using a variety of computer analysis algorithms known in the art. As such alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by the local identity algorithm of Smith and Waterman 1981 2 482 by the identity alignment algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch 1970 48 443 by the search for similarity methods of Pearson and Lipman 1988 85 2444 by computerized implementations of these algorithms GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG 575 Science Dr. Madison Wis. or by inspection. As would be understood by the skilled artisan many algorithms are available and are continually being developed. Appropriate algorithms can be chosen based on the specific needs for the comparisons being made See also e.g. J. A. Cuff et al. 16 2 111 116 2000 S. F Altschul and B. W. Erickson. 48 5 6 603 616 1986 S. F. Altschul and B. W. Erickson. 48 5 6 633 660 1986 S. F. Altschul et al. 215 403 410 1990 K. Bucka Lassen et al. 15 2 122 130 1999 K. M. Chao et al. 55 3 503 524 1993 W. M. Fitch and T. F. Smith. 80 1382 1386 1983 A. D. Gordon. 60 197 200 1973 O. Gotoh. 162 705 708 1982 O. Gotoh. 52 3 359 373 1990 X. Huang et al. 6 373 381 1990 X. Huang and W. Miller. 12 337 357 1991 J. D. Thompson et al. 27 13 2682 2690 1999 .

In certain embodiments a particular transcript is considered to be organ specific when the number of transcripts million as determined by MPSS is 3 or greater in the organ of interest but is less than 3 in all other organs. In another embodiment a transcript is considered organ specific if it is expressed in the organ of interest at a detectable level using a standard measurement e.g. microarray analysis quantitative real time RT PCR MPSS etc. in the organ of interest but is not detectably expressed in other organs using appropriate negative and positive controls as would be familiar to the skilled artisan. In a further embodiment an organ specific transcript is one that is expressed 95 in one organ and the remaining 5 in one or more other organs. In this context total expression across all organs examined is taken as 100 . In certain embodiments an organ specific transcript is one that is expressed at about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 to about 90 in one organ and wherein the remaining 10 50 is expressed in one or more other organs.

In another embodiment organ specific transcripts are identified by determining the ratio of expression of a transcript in the organ of interest as compared to other organs. In this regard expression levels in the organ of interest of at least 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 6.5 7.0 fold or higher as compared to expression in all other organs is considered to be organ specific expression.

As would be readily recognized by the skilled artisan upon reading the present disclosure in certain embodiments an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint can readily be discerned even if some expression of an organ specific protein from a particular organ is detected at some level in another organ or even more than one organ. This is because the fingerprint e.g. the combination of the levels of multiple proteins the pattern of the expression levels of multiple markers itself is unique despite that the expression levels of one or more individual members of the fingerprint may not be unique to a particular organ. For example the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint from prostate can conclusively identify a particular prostate disease and stage of disease despite some expression of one or more members of the fingerprint in one or more other organs. Thus the present invention relates to determining the presence or absence of a disease or condition or stage of disease based on a pattern e.g. fingerprint of markers measured concurrently using any one or more of a variety of methods described herein e.g. antibody binding mass spectrometry and the like rather than the measure of individual markers.

In further embodiments specificity can be confirmed at the protein level using immunohistochemistry IHC and or other protein measurement techniques known in the art e.g. isotope coded affinity tags and mass spectrometry such as described by Han D. K. et al. 19 946 951 2001 . The Z test Man M. Z. et al. 16 953 959 2000 or other appropriate statistical tests can be used to calculate P values for comparison of gene and protein expression levels between libraries from organs of interest.

Organ specific sequences identified as described herein are further analyzed to determine which of the sequences encode secreted proteins. Proteins with signal peptides classical secretory proteins can be predicted using computation analysis known in the art. Illustrative methods include but are not limited to the criteria described by Chen et al. 14 859 865 2003. In certain embodiments such analyses are carried out using prediction servers for example SignalP 3.0 server developed by The Center for Biological Sequence Analysis Lyngby Denmark httpcolon double slash dot www dot cbs dot dtu dot dkslash services slash SignalP 3.0 see also J. D. Bendtsen et al. 340 783 795 2004. and the TMHMM2.0 server see for example A. Krogh et al. 305 3 567 580 January 2001 E. L. L. Sonnhammer et al. In J. Glasgow T. Littlejohn F. Major R. Lathrop D. Sankoff and C. Sensen editors pages 175 182 Menlo Park Calif. 1998. AAAI Press . Other prediction methods that can be used in the context of the present invention include those described for example in S. Moller M. D. R. et al. 17 7 646 653 July 2001. Nonclassical secretory secreted proteins without signal peptides can be predicted using for example the SecretomeP 2.0 server http colon double slash www dot cbs dot dtu dot dk slash services slash SecretomeP 2.0 slash with an odds ratio score 3.0. Updated versions of these analysis programs are also contemplated for use in the present methods as are other methods known in the art e.g. PSORT http colon double slash psort dot nibb dot acdot jp slash and Sigfind http colon double slash 139.91.72.10 slash sigfindslash sigfind dot html .

Confirmation that the identified secreted proteins are present in blood can be carried out using a variety of methods known in the art. For example the proteins can be expressed purified and specific antibodies can be made against them. The specific antibodies can then be used to test the presence of the protein in blood serum plasma by a variety of immunoaffinity based techniques e.g. immunoblot Western analysis immunoprecipitation ELISA etc. . Antibodies specific for the organ specific protein identified herein can also be used to study expression patterns of the identified proteins. It should be noted that in certain circumstances the secreted protein may not be detectable in normal blood samples but will be detected in the blood as a result of perturbation due to disease or other environmental factors. Accordingly both normal and disease samples are tested for the presence of the secreted protein and particularly for changes in levels of expression in the two states. As an alternative aptamers short DNA or RNA fragments with binding complementarity to the proteins of interest may be used in assays similar to those described for antibodies see for example 2001 February 30 2 290 2 294 5 1999 45 1628 1650 . In addition antibodies or aptamers may be used in connection with nanowires to create highly sensitive detections systems see e.g. J. Heath et al. Science. 2004 Dec. 17 306 5704 2055 6 . In further embodiments mass spectrometry based methods can be used to confirm the presence of a particular protein in the blood.

As would be recognized by the skilled artisan while the organ specific secreted proteins the levels of which make up a given fingerprint need not be isolated in certain embodiments it may be desirable to isolate such proteins e.g. for antibody production . As such the present invention provides for isolated organ specific secreted proteins or fragments or portions thereof and polynucleotides that encode such proteins. As used herein the terms protein and polypeptide are used interchangeably. The terms polypeptide and protein encompass amino acid chains of any length including full length endogenous i.e. native proteins and variants of endogenous polypeptides described herein. Illustrative polypeptides of the present invention are described in Table 1 and Tables 3 5 the section entitled Brief Description of the Sequence Identifiers and are set forth in the sequence listing. Variants are polypeptides that differ in sequence from the polypeptides of the present invention only in substitutions deletions and or other modifications such that either the variants disease specific expression patterns are not significantly altered or the polypeptides remain useful for diagnostics detection of organ specific blood fingerprints as described herein. For example modifications to the polypeptides of the present invention may be made in the laboratory to facilitate expression and or purification and or to improve immunogenicity for the generation of appropriate antibodies and other binding agents etc. Modified variants e.g. chemically modified of the polypeptides of organ specific secreted proteins may be useful herein e.g. as standards in mass spectrometry analyses of the corresponding proteins in the blood and the like . As such in certain embodiments the biological function of a variant protein is not relevant for utility in the methods for detection and or diagnostics described herein. Polypeptide variants generally encompassed by the present invention will typically exhibit at least about 70 75 80 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 or more identity along its length to a polypeptide sequence set forth herein. Within a polypeptide variant amino acid substitutions are usually made at no more than 50 of the amino acid residues in the native polypeptide and in certain embodiments at no more than 25 of the amino acid residues. In certain embodiments such substitutions are conservative. A conservative substitution is one in which an amino acid is substituted for another amino acid that has similar properties such that one skilled in the art of peptide chemistry would expect the secondary structure and hydropathic nature of the polypeptide to be substantially unchanged. In general the following amino acids represent conservative changes 1 ala pro gly glu asp gin asn ser thr 2 cys ser tyr thr 3 val ile leu met ala phe 4 lys arg his and 5 phe tyr trp his. Thus a variant may comprise only a portion of a native polypeptide sequence as provided herein. In addition or alternatively variants may contain additional amino acid sequences such as for example linkers tags and or ligands usually at the amino and or carboxy termini. Such sequences may be used for example to facilitate purification detection or cellular uptake of the polypeptide.

When comparing polypeptide sequences two sequences are said to be identical if the sequence of amino acids in the two sequences is the same when aligned for maximum correspondence as described below. Comparisons between two sequences are typically performed by comparing the sequences over a comparison window to identify and compare local regions of sequence similarity. A comparison window as used herein refers to a segment of at least about 20 contiguous positions usually 30 to about 75 40 to about 50 in which a sequence may be compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous positions after the two sequences are optimally aligned.

Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted using the Megalign program in the Lasergene suite of bioinformatics software DNASTAR Inc. Madison Wis. using default parameters. This program embodies several alignment schemes described in the following references Dayhoff M. O. 1978 A model of evolutionary change in proteins Matrices for detecting distant relationships. In Dayhoff M. O. ed. National Biomedical Research Foundation Washington D.C. Vol. 5 Suppl. 3 pp. 345 358 Hein J. 1990 Unified Approach to Alignment and Phylogenes pp. 626 645 vol. 183 Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. Higgins D. G. and Sharp P. M. 1989 5 151 153 Myers E. W. and Muller W. 1988 4 11 17 Robinson E. D. 1971 11 105 Saitou N. Nei M. 1987 4 406 425 Sneath P. H. A. and Sokal R. R. 1973 Freeman Press San Francisco Calif. Wilbur W. J. and Lipman D. J. 1983 80 726 730.

Alternatively optimal alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by the local identity algorithm of Smith and Waterman 1981 2 482 by the identity alignment algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch 1970 48 443 by the search for similarity methods of Pearson and Lipman 1988 85 2444 by computerized implementations of these algorithms GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG 575 Science Dr. Madison Wis. or by inspection.

Illustrative examples of algorithms that are suitable for determining percent sequence identity and sequence similarity include the BLAST and BLAST 2.0 algorithms which are described in Altschul et al. 1977 25 3389 3402 and Altschul et al. 1990 215 403 410 respectively. BLAST and BLAST 2.0 can be used for example to determine percent sequence identity for the polynucleotides and polypeptides of the invention. Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information.

An isolated polypeptide is one that is removed from its original environment. For example a naturally occurring protein or polypeptide is isolated if it is separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the natural system. In certain embodiments such polypeptides are also purified e.g. are at least about 90 pure in some embodiments at least about 95 pure and in further embodiments at least about 99 pure.

In one embodiment of the present invention a polypeptide comprises a fusion protein comprising an organ specific secreted polypeptide. The present invention further provides in other aspects fusion proteins that comprise at least one polypeptide as described herein as well as polynucleotides encoding such fusion proteins. The fusion proteins may comprise multiple polypeptides or portions variants thereof as described herein and may further comprise one or more polypeptide segments for facilitating the expression purification detection and or activity of the polypeptide s .

In certain embodiments the proteins and or polynucleotides and or fusion proteins are provided in the form of compositions e.g. pharmaceutical compositions vaccine compositions compositions comprising a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient. Such compositions may comprise buffers such as neutral buffered saline phosphate buffered saline and the like carbohydrates such as glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione adjuvants e.g. aluminum hydroxide and preservatives.

In general organ specific secreted polypeptides and polynucleotides encoding such polypeptides as described herein may be prepared using any of a variety of techniques that are well known in the art. For example a DNA sequence encoding an organ specific secreted protein may be prepared by amplification from a suitable cDNA or genomic library using for example polymerase chain reaction PCR or hybridization techniques. Libraries may generally be prepared and screened using methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as those described in Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989. cDNA libraries may be prepared from any of a variety of organs tissues cells as described herein. Other libraries that may be employed will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present disclosure. Primers for use in amplification may be readily designed based on the polynucleotide sequences encoding organ specific polypeptides as provided herein for example using programs such as the PRIMER3 program http colon double slash www genome dot wi dot mit dot edu cgi bin primer primer3 www dot cgi .

Polynucleotides encoding the organ specific secreted polypeptides as described herein are also provided by the present invention. A polynucleotide as used herein may be single stranded coding or antisense or double stranded and may be DNA genomic cDNA or synthetic or RNA molecules. Thus within the context of the present invention a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide may also be a gene. A gene is a segment of DNA involved in producing a polypeptide chain it includes regions preceding and following the coding region leader and trailer as well as intervening sequences introns between individual coding segments exons . Additional coding or non coding sequences may but need not be present within a polynucleotide of the present invention and a polynucleotide may but need not be linked to other molecules and or support materials. An isolated polynucleotide as used herein means that a polynucleotide is substantially away from other coding sequences and that the DNA molecule does not contain large portions of unrelated coding DNA such as large chromosomal fragments or other functional genes or polypeptide coding regions. Of course this refers to the DNA molecule as originally isolated and does not exclude genes or coding regions later added to the segment by the hand of man.

Polynucleotides of the present invention may comprise a native sequence i.e. an endogenous polynucleotide for instance a native or non artificially engineered or naturally occurring gene as provided herein encoding an organ specific secreted protein an alternate form of such a sequence or a portion or splice variant thereof or may comprise a variant of such a sequence. Polynucleotide variants may contain one or more substitutions additions deletions and or insertions such that the polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide useful in the methods described herein such as for the detection of organ specific proteins e.g. wherein said polynucleotide variants encode polypeptides that can be used to generate detection reagents as described herein that are specific for an organ specific secreted protein . In certain embodiments variants exhibit at least about 70 identity and in other embodiments exhibit at least about 80 85 86 87 88 89 identity and in yet further embodiments at least about 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity to a polynucleotide sequence that encodes a native organ specific secreted polypeptide or an alternate form or a portion thereof. Illustrative polynucleotides of the present invention are described in Table 1 and Tables 3 5 the section entitled Brief Description of the Sequence Identifiers and are set forth in the sequence listing. The percent identity may be readily determined by comparing sequences using computer algorithms well known to those having ordinary skill in the art and described herein.

Polynucleotides that are complementary to the polynucleotides described herein or that have substantial identity to a sequence complementary to a polynucleotide as described herein are also within the scope of the present invention. Substantial identity as used herein refers to polynucleotides that exhibit at least about 70 identity and in certain embodiments at least about 80 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity to a polynucleotide sequence that encodes a native organ specific secreted polypeptide as described herein. Substantial identity can also refer to polynucleotides that are capable of hybridizing under stringent conditions to a polynucleotide complementary to a polynucleotide encoding an organ specific secreted protein. Suitable hybridization conditions include prewashing in a solution of 5 SSC 0.5 SDS 1.0 mM EDTA pH 8.0 hybridizing at 50 65 C. 5 SSC overnight followed by washing twice at 65 C. for 20 minutes with each of 2 0.5 and 0.2 SSC containing 0.1 SDS. Nucleotide sequences that because of code degeneracy encode a polypeptide encoded by any of the above sequences are also encompassed by the present invention.

Oligonucleotide primers for amplification of the polynucleotides encoding organ specific secreted proteins are also within the scope of the present invention. Many amplification methods are known in the art such as PCR RT PCR quantitative real time PCR and the like. The PCR conditions used can be optimized in terms of temperature annealing times extension times and number of cycles depending on the oligonucleotide and the polynucleotide to be amplified. Such techniques are well known in the art and are described in for example Mullis et al. 51 263 1987 Erlich ed. Stockton Press NY 1989. Oligonucleotide primers can be anywhere from 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 nucleotides in length. In certain embodiments the oligonucleotide primers of the present invention are typically 35 40 45 50 55 60 or more nucleotides in length.

The present invention also provides methods for defining organ specific molecular blood fingerprints. Additionally the present invention provides defined examples of organ specific molecular blood fingerprints as described further herein.

Each normal organ controls the expression of a variety of genes some of which are expressed at major levels at other organs or tissues in the body and some of which are expressed only in the organ of interest or at significantly increased levels in the organ of interest as compared to expression in other organs tissues e.g. at least 2 fold at least 2.5 fold at least 3.0 fold at least 3.5 fold at least 4.0 fold at least 4.5 fold or higher fold expression in the organ of interest as compared to other tissues. Some of the organ specific transcripts encode proteins which can be secreted into the blood. Hence these secreted proteins constitute an organ specific molecular fingerprint for that organ in the blood. Analysis of levels of these proteins in the blood provides organ specific molecular blood fingerprints that are indicative of biological states. A biological state may be a normal healthy state or a disease state e.g. perturbation from normal . Thus there are molecular fingerprints in the blood that reflect the operation of normal organs and each organ has a specific molecular fingerprint. These organ specific blood fingerprints are perturbed when disease or other agents such as drugs affects the organ. Different diseases will alter the organ specific blood fingerprints in different ways e.g. alter the expression levels of the corresponding secreted proteins . Thus a unique perturbed blood molecular fingerprint is associated with each type of distinct disease. In effect each distinct disease or stage of a disease creates its own molecular blood fingerprint for each organ that it affects. As would be readily appreciated by the skilled artisan each disease or stage of a disease can affect multiple organs. For example in kidney cancer a primary perturbation in the kidney specific molecular blood fingerprint would occur. However a secondary or indirect effect may also be observed in the bladder specific molecular blood fingerprint. As another example in liver cancer perturbation of a liver specific blood fingerprint as a primary indicator of disease would occur. However secondary or indirect effects at other sites for example in a lymphocyte specific blood fingerprint would also be observed. As described elsewhere herein each disease type and stage results in a unique identifiable fingerprint for each organ that it affects for primary and secondary organs affected. Thus multiple organ specific molecular blood fingerprints can be used in combination to determine a particular biological state and the fingerprints may include those for the primary organ affected and or for a secondary or indirect organ that is affected by a particular disease.

Most common diseases such as prostate cancer actually represent multiple distinct diseases that initially appear similar e.g. benign and very slowly growing prostate cancer slowly invasive prostate cancer and rapidly metastatic prostate cancer represent three different types of prostate cancer the process of dividing individual prostate cancers into one of these three types is called stratification . The blood molecular fingerprints will be distinct for each of these disease types thus allowing for the stratification of similar diseases and rapid intervention where necessary. The blood fingerprints will also be perturbed in unique ways as each type of disease progresses hence the blood fingerprints will also permit the progression of disease to be followed. The blood fingerprints also change with therapy and hence will permit the effectiveness of therapy to be followed thereby allowing a physician to alter treatment accordingly. Further the blood fingerprints change with exposure to a variety of environmental factors such as drugs and can be used to assess toxic or off target damage by the drug and it will even permit following the subsequent recovery from such adverse drug exposure.

Thus an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint for a given setting e.g. a particular disease is defined by the levels in the blood of the organ specific proteins that make up the fingerprint. As such an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint for a given organ at any given time and in any given disease setting is determined by measuring the levels of each of a plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood. It is the combination of the different levels in the blood of the organ specific proteins that reveals a unique pattern that defines the fingerprint. Equally important each of the levels of the proteins can be compared against one another to create an N dimensional measure of the fingerprint space a very powerful correlate to health and disease see e.g. U.S. Patent Application No 20020095259 . It should be noted that in certain embodiments an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint may be comprised of the determined level in the blood of one or more organ specific secreted proteins. In one embodiment an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint may comprise the determined level in the blood of anywhere from at least 1 to more than about 100 200 or more organ specific secreted proteins from a particular organ of interest. In one embodiment the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the quantitatively measured level in the blood of at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 organ specific secreted proteins. In another embodiment the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the determined level in the blood of at least 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 28 29 or 30 organ specific secreted proteins. In a further embodiment the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the determined level in the blood of at least 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 or 40 organ specific secreted proteins. In yet a further embodiment the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the determined level in the blood of at least 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 or 50 organ specific secreted proteins. In an additional embodiment the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the determined level in the blood of 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 or 60 organ specific secreted proteins. In another embodiment the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the determined level in the blood of 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 or 70 organ specific secreted proteins. In further embodiments the organ specific molecular blood fingerprint comprises the determined level in the blood of 75 80 85 90 100 or more organ specific secreted proteins.

It should be noted that in certain circumstances an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint can be defined in part or entirely merely by the presence or absence of one or a plurality of organ specific proteins and determining the exact level of each of a plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood may not be necessary.

In a further embodiment the disease e.g. perturbed molecular blood fingerprints for a particular organ are determined by comparing the blood from normal individuals against that from patients with specific diseases at known stages. A statistically significant change in the levels e.g. an increase or a decrease of one or more of the organ specific proteins in the blood that comprise the fingerprint as compared to normal is indicative of a perturbation of the fingerprint and is useful in diagnostics of the particular disease and or stage of disease. As discussed elsewhere herein the fingerprint may be for the primary organ affected by the particular disease of interest or a secondarily indirectly affected organ. The skilled artisan would readily appreciate that a variety of statistical tests can be used to determine if an altered level of a given protein is significant. The Z test Man M. Z. et al. 16 953 959 2000 or other appropriate statistical tests can be used to calculate P values for comparison of protein expression levels. In certain embodiments the level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins in the blood sample from the subject is compared to a previously determined normal control level of each of the plurality of organ specific proteins taking into account standard deviation. Thus the present invention provides determined normal control levels of each of a plurality of organ specific proteins that make up a particular molecular blood fingerprint.

Organ specific molecular blood fingerprints can be determined using any of a variety of detection reagents in the context of a variety of methods for measuring protein levels. Any detection reagent that can specifically bind to or otherwise detect an organ specific secreted protein as described herein is contemplated as a suitable detection reagent. Illustrative detection reagents include but are not limited to antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof yeast ScFv DNA or RNA aptamers isotope labeled peptides microfluidic nanotechnology measurement devices and the like.

In one illustrative embodiment a detection reagent is an antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof. Antibodies may be prepared by any of a variety of techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See e.g. Harlow and Lane Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1988. In general antibodies can be produced by cell culture techniques including the generation of monoclonal antibodies as described herein or via transfection of antibody genes into suitable bacterial or mammalian cell hosts in order to allow for the production of recombinant antibodies. In one technique an immunogen comprising the polypeptide is initially injected into any of a wide variety of mammals e.g. mice rats rabbits sheep or goats . In this step the polypeptides of this invention may serve as the immunogen without modification. Alternatively particularly for relatively short polypeptides a superior immune response may be elicited if the polypeptide is joined to a carrier protein such as bovine serum albumin or keyhole limpet hemocyanin. The immunogen is injected into the animal host usually according to a predetermined schedule incorporating one or more booster immunizations and the animals are bled periodically. Polyclonal antibodies specific for the polypeptide may then be purified from such antisera by for example affinity chromatography using the polypeptide coupled to a suitable solid support.

In one embodiment multiple target proteins or peptides are used in a single immune response to generate multiple useful detection reagents simultaneously. In one embodiment the individual specificities are later separated out.

In certain embodiments antibody can be generated by phage display methods such as described by Vaughan T. J. et al. 14 309 314 1996 and Knappik A. et al. 296 57 86 2000 ribosomal display such as described in Hanes J. et al. 18 1287 1292 2000 or periplasmic expression in see e.g. Chen G. et al. 19 537 542 2001. . In further embodiments antibodies can be isolated using a yeast surface display library. See e.g. nonimmune library of 10human antibody scFv fragments as constructed by Feldhaus M. J. et al. 21 163 170 2003. There are several advantages of this yeast surface display compared to more traditional large nonimmune human antibody repertoires such as phage display ribosomal display and periplasmic expression in 1 . The yeast library can be amplified 10 fold without measurable loss of clonal diversity and repertoire bias as the expression is under control of the tightly GAL1 10 promoter and expansion can be done under non induction conditions 2 nanomolar affinity scFvs can be routinely obtained by magnetic bead screening and flow cytometric sorting thus greatly simplified the protocol and capacity of antibody screening 3 with equilibrium screening a minimal affinity threshold of the antibodies desired can be set 4 the binding properties of the antibodies can be quantified directly on the yeast surface 5 multiplex library screening against multiple antigens simultaneously is possible and 6 for applications demanding picomolar affinity e.g. in early diagnosis subsequent rapid affinity maturation Kieke M. C. et al. 307 1305 1315 2001. can be carried out directly on yeast clones without further re cloning and manipulations.

Monoclonal antibodies specific for an organ specific secreted polypeptide of interest may be prepared for example using the technique of Kohler and Milstein 6 511 519 1976 and improvements thereto. Briefly these methods involve the preparation of immortal cell lines capable of producing antibodies having the desired specificity i.e. reactivity with the polypeptide of interest . Such cell lines may be produced for example from spleen cells obtained from an animal immunized as described above. The spleen cells are then immortalized by for example fusion with a myeloma cell fusion partner in certain embodiments one that is syngeneic with the immunized animal. A variety of fusion techniques may be employed. For example the spleen cells and myeloma cells may be combined with a nonionic detergent for a few minutes and then plated at low density on a selective medium that supports the growth of hybrid cells but not myeloma cells. An illustrative selection technique uses HAT hypoxanthine aminopterin thymidine selection. After a sufficient time usually about 1 to 2 weeks colonies of hybrids are observed. Single colonies are selected and their culture supernatants tested for binding activity against the polypeptide. Hybridomas having high reactivity and specificity are preferred.

Monoclonal antibodies may be isolated from the supernatants of growing hybridoma colonies. In addition various techniques may be employed to enhance the yield such as injection of the hybridoma cell line into the peritoneal cavity of a suitable vertebrate host such as a mouse. Monoclonal antibodies may then be harvested from the ascites fluid or the blood. Contaminants may be removed from the antibodies by conventional techniques such as chromatography gel filtration precipitation and extraction. The polypeptides of this invention may be used in the purification process in for example an affinity chromatography step.

A number of therapeutically useful molecules are known in the art which comprise antigen binding sites that are capable of exhibiting immunological binding properties of an antibody molecule. The proteolytic enzyme papain preferentially cleaves IgG molecules to yield several fragments two of which the F ab fragments each comprise a covalent heterodimer that includes an intact antigen binding site. The enzyme pepsin is able to cleave IgG molecules to provide several fragments including the F ab fragment which comprises both antigen binding sites. An Fv fragment can be produced by preferential proteolytic cleavage of an IgM and on rare occasions IgG or IgA immunoglobulin molecule. Fv fragments are however more commonly derived using recombinant techniques known in the art. The Fv fragment includes a non covalent V Vheterodimer including an antigen binding site which retains much of the antigen recognition and binding capabilities of the native antibody molecule. Inbar et al. 1972 69 2659 2662 Hochman et al. 1976 15 2706 2710 and Ehrlich et al. 1980 19 4091 4096.

A single chain Fv sFv polypeptide is a covalently linked V Vheterodimer which is expressed from a gene fusion including V and V encoding genes linked by a peptide encoding linker. Huston et al. 1988 85 16 5879 5883. A number of methods have been described to discern chemical structures for converting the naturally aggregated but chemically separated light and heavy polypeptide chains from an antibody V region into an sFv molecule which will fold into a three dimensional structure substantially similar to the structure of an antigen binding site. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 091 513 and 5 132 405 to Huston et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 to Ladner et al.

Each of the above described molecules includes a heavy chain and a light chain CDR set respectively interposed between a heavy chain and a light chain FR set which provide support to the CDRS and define the spatial relationship of the CDRs relative to each other. As used herein the term CDR set refers to the three hypervariable regions of a heavy or light chain V region. Proceeding from the N terminus of a heavy or light chain these regions are denoted as CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 respectively. An antigen binding site therefore includes six CDRs comprising the CDR set from each of a heavy and a light chain V region. A polypeptide comprising a single CDR e.g. a CDR1 CDR2 or CDR3 is referred to herein as a molecular recognition unit. Crystallographic analysis of a number of antigen antibody complexes has demonstrated that the amino acid residues of CDRs form extensive contact with bound antigen wherein the most extensive antigen contact is with the heavy chain CDR3. Thus the molecular recognition units are primarily responsible for the specificity of an antigen binding site.

As used herein the term FR set refers to the four flanking amino acid sequences which frame the CDRs of a CDR set of a heavy or light chain V region. Some FR residues may contact bound antigen however FRs are primarily responsible for folding the V region into the antigen binding site particularly the FR residues directly adjacent to the CDRS. Within FRs certain amino residues and certain structural features are very highly conserved. In this regard all V region sequences contain an internal disulfide loop of around 90 amino acid residues. When the V regions fold into a binding site the CDRs are displayed as projecting loop motifs which form an antigen binding surface. It is generally recognized that there are conserved structural regions of FRs which influence the folded shape of the CDR loops into certain canonical structures regardless of the precise CDR amino acid sequence. Further certain FR residues are known to participate in non covalent interdomain contacts which stabilize the interaction of the antibody heavy and light chains.

The detection reagents of the present invention may comprise any of a variety of detectable labels. The invention contemplates the use of any type of detectable label including e.g. visually detectable labels fluorophores and radioactive labels. The detectable label may be incorporated within or attached either covalently or non covalently to the detection reagent.

Methods for measuring organ specific protein levels from blood serum plasma include but are not limited to immunoaffinity based assays such as ELISAs Western blots and radioimmunoassays and mass spectrometry based methods matrix assisted laser desorption ionization MALDI MALDI Time of Flight TOF Tandem MS MS MS electrospray ionization ESI Surface Enhanced Laser Desorption Ionization SELDI TOF MS liquid chromatography LC MS MS etc . Other methods useful in this context include isotope coded affinity tag ICAT followed by multidimensional chromatography and MS MS. The procedures described herein for analysis of blood organ specific protein fingerprints can be modified and adapted to make use of microfluidics and nanotechnology in order to miniaturize parallelize integrate and automate diagnostic procedures see e.g. L. Hood et al. 306 640 643 R. H. Carlson et al. 79 2149 1997 A. Y. Fu et al. 74 2451 2002 J. W. Hong et al. 22 435 2004 A. G. Hadd et al. 69 3407 1997 I. Karube et al. 750 101 1995 L. C. Waters et al. 70 158 1998 J. Fritz et al. 288 316 2000 .

It should be noted that when the term blood is used herein any part of the blood is intended. Accordingly for determining molecular blood fingerprints whole blood may be used directly where appropriate or plasma or serum may be used.

The present invention also provides panels arrays for detecting the organ specific blood fingerprints at any given time in a subject. The term subject is intended to include any mammal or indeed any vertebrate that may be used as a model system for human disease. Examples of subjects include humans monkeys apes dogs cats mice rats fish zebra fish birds horses pigs cows sheep goats chickens ducks donkeys turkeys peacocks chinchillas ferrets gerbils rabbits guinea pigs hamsters and transgenic species thereof. Further subjects contemplated herein include but are not limited to reptiles and amphibians e.g. lizards snakes turtles frogs toads salamanders and newts. In one embodiment the panel array of the present invention comprises one detection reagent that specifically detects an organ specific secreted protein. In another embodiment the panel arrays are comprised of a plurality of detection reagents that each specifically detects an organ specific secreted protein wherein the levels of organ specific secreted proteins taken together form a unique pattern that defines the fingerprint. In certain embodiments detection reagents can be bispecific such that the panel array is comprised of a plurality of bispecific detection reagents that may specifically detect more than one organ specific secreted protein. The term specifically is a term of art that would be readily understood by the skilled artisan to mean in this context that the protein of interest is detected by the particular detection reagent but other proteins are not detected in a statistically significant manner under the same conditions. Specificity can be determined using appropriate positive and negative controls and by routinely optimizing conditions.

The panel arrays may be comprised of a solid phase surface having attached thereto a plurality of detection reagents each attached at a distinct location. As would be recognized by the skilled artisan the number of detection reagents on a given panel array would be determined from the number of organ specific secreted proteins in the fingerprint to be measured. In one embodiment the panel array comprises one or more detection reagents. In a further embodiment the panel array comprises a plurality of detection reagents wherein the plurality of detection reagents may be anywhere from about 2 to about 100 150 160 170 180 190 200 or more detection reagents each specific for an organ specific secreted protein. In one embodiment the panel array comprises at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In another embodiment the panel array comprises at least 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In a further embodiment the panel array comprises at least 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In an additional embodiment the panel array comprises at least 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 or 40 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In yet a further embodiment the panel array comprises at least 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 or 50 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In an additional embodiment the panel array comprises at least 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 or 60 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In one embodiment the panel array comprises at least 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 or 70 detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint. In one embodiment the panel array comprises at least 75 80 85 90 100 150 160 170 180 190 200 or more detection reagents each specific for one of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint.

Further in this regard the solid phase surface may be of any material including but not limited to plastic polycarbonate polystyrene polypropylene polyethlene glass nitrocellulose dextran nylon metal silicon and carbon nanowires nanoparticles that can be made of a variety of materials and photolithographic materials. In certain embodiments the solid phase surface is a chip. In another embodiment the solid phase surface may comprise microtiter plates beads membranes microparticles the interior surface of a reaction vessel such as a test tube or other reaction vessel. In other embodiments the peptides will be fractionated by one or more one dimensional columns using size separations ion exchange or hydrophobicity properties and for example deposited in a MALDI 96 or 384 well plate and then injected into an appropriate mass spectrometer.

In one embodiment the panel array is an addressable array. As such the addressable array may comprise a plurality of distinct detection reagents such as antibodies or aptamers attached to precise locations on a solid phase surface such as a plastic chip. The position of each distinct detection reagent on the surface is known and therefore addressable . In one embodiment the detection reagents are distinct antibodies that each have specific affinity for one of a plurality of organ specific polypeptides.

In one embodiment the detection reagents such as antibodies are covalently linked to the solid surface such as a plastic chip for example through the Fc domains of antibodies. In another embodiment antibodies are adsorbed onto the solid surface. In a further embodiment the detection reagent such as an antibody is chemically conjugated to the solid surface. In a further embodiment the detection reagents are attached to the solid surface via a linker. In certain embodiments detection with multiple specific detection reagents is carried out in solution.

Methods of constructing protein arrays including antibody arrays are known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 489 678 U.S. Pat. No. 5 252 743 Blawas and Reichert 199819 595 609 Firestone et al. 1996 18 9033 9041 Mooney et al. 1996 93 12287 12291 Pirrung et al 1996 7 317 321 Gao et al 1995 10 317 328 Schena et al 1995 270 467 470 Lom et al. 1993 385 397 Pope et al. 1993 4 116 171 Schramm et al. 1992 205 47 56 Gombotz et al. 1991 25 1547 1562 Alarie et al. 1990 229 169 176 Owaku et al 1993 13 14 723 724 Bhatia et al. 1989 178 408 413 Lin et al. 1988 35 6 466 471 .

In one embodiment the detection reagents such as antibodies are arrayed on a chip comprised of electronically activated copolymers of a conductive polymer and the detection reagent. Such arrays are known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 859 issued Nov. 17 1998 PCT publication WO 94 22889 dated Oct. 13 1994 . The arrayed pattern may be computer generated and stored. The chips may be prepared in advance and stored appropriately. The antibody array chips can be regenerated and used repeatedly.

Using the methods described herein a vast array of organ specific molecular blood fingerprints can be defined for any of a variety of diseases as described further herein. As such the present invention further provides information databases comprising data that make up molecular blood fingerprints as described herein. As such the databases may comprise the defined differential expression levels as determined using any of a variety of methods such as those described herein of each of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint in any of a variety of settings e.g. normal or disease fingerprints .

The present invention provides methods for identifying organ specific secreted proteins and methods for identifying organ specific molecular blood fingerprints. The present invention further provides panels arrays of detection reagents for detecting such fingerprints. The present invention also provides defined organ specific molecular blood fingerprints for normal and disease settings. As such the present invention provides methods of detecting diseases. The invention further provides methods for stratifying disease types and for monitoring the progression of a disease. The present invention also provides for following responses to therapy in a variety of disease settings and methods for detecting the disease state in humans using the visualization of nanoparticles with appropriate reporter groups and organ specific antibodies or aptamers.

The present invention can be used as a standard screening test. In this regard one or more of the detection panel arrays described herein can be run on an individual and any statistically significant deviation from a normal organ specific molecular blood fingerprint would indicate that disease related perturbation was present. Thus the present invention provides a standard or normal blood fingerprint for any given organ. In certain embodiments a normal blood fingerprint is determined by measuring the normal range of levels of the individual protein members of a fingerprint. Any deviation therefrom or perturbation of the normal fingerprint that is outside the standard deviation normal range has diagnostic utility see also U.S. Patent Application No. 0020095259 . As would be recognized by the skilled artisan the significance of any deviation in the levels of e.g. a significantly altered level of one or more of the individual protein members of a fingerprint can be determined using statistical methods known in the art and described herein. As noted elsewhere herein perturbation of the normal fingerprint can indicate primary disease of the organ being tested or secondary indirect affects on that organ resulting from disease of another organ.

In an additional embodiment the present invention can be used to determine distinct normal organ specific molecular fingerprints such as in different populations of people. In this regard distinct normal patterns of organ specific molecular blood fingerprints may have differences in populations of patients that permit one to stratify patients into classes that would respond to a particular therapeutic regimen and those which would not.

In a further embodiment the present invention can be used to determine the risk of developing a particular biological condition. A statistically significant alteration e.g. increase or decrease in the levels of one or more members of a particular molecular blood fingerprint may signify a risk of developing a particular disease such as a cancer an autoimmune disease or other biological condition.

To monitor the progression of a disease or monitor responses to therapy one or more organ specific molecular blood fingerprints are detected measured as described herein using any of the methods as described herein at one time point and detected measured again at subsequent time points thereby monitoring disease progression or responses to therapy.

The organ specific molecular blood fingerprints of the present invention can be used to detect any of a variety of diseases or the lack thereof . In certain embodiments the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints of the present invention can be used to detect cancer. As such the present invention can be used to detect monitor progression of or monitor therapeutic regimens for any cancer including melanoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma Hodgkin s disease leukemias plasmocytomas sarcomas adenomas gliomas thymomas breast cancer prostate cancer colo rectal cancer kidney cancer renal cell carcinoma bladder cancer uterine cancer pancreatic cancer esophageal cancer brain cancer lung cancer ovarian cancer cervical cancer testicular cancer gastric cancer multiple myeloma hepatoma acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL acute myelogenous leukemia AML chronic myelogenous leukemia CML and chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL or other cancers.

In certain embodiments the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints of the present invention can be used to detect to monitor progression of or monitor therapeutic regimens for diseases of the heart kidney ureter bladder urethra liver prostate heart blood vessels bone marrow skeletal muscle smooth muscle various specific regions of the brain including but not limited to the amygdala caudate nucleus cerebellum corpus callosum fetal hypothalamus thalamus spinal cord peripheral nerves retina nose trachea lungs mouth salivary gland esophagus stomach small intestines large intestines hypothalamus pituitary thyroid pancreas adrenal glands ovaries oviducts uterus placenta vagina mammary glands testes seminal vesicles penis lymph nodes thymus and spleen. The present invention can be used to detect to monitor progression of or monitor therapeutic regimens for cardiovascular diseases neurological diseases metabolic diseases respiratory diseases autoimmune diseases. As would be recognized by the skilled artisan the present invention can be used to detect monitor the progression of or monitor treatment for virtually any disease wherein the disease causes perturbation in organ specific secreted proteins.

In certain embodiments the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints of the present invention can be used to detect autoimmune disease. As such the present invention can be used to detect monitor progression of or monitor therapeutic regimens for autoimmune diseases such as but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis insulin dependent diabetes Addison s disease celiac disease chronic fatigue syndrome inflammatory bowel disease ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease Fibromyalgia systemic lupus erythematosus psoriasis Sjogren s syndrome hyperthyroidism Graves disease hypothyroidism Hashimoto s disease Insulin dependent diabetes type 1 Myasthenia Gravis endometriosis scleroderma pernicious anemia Goodpasture syndrome Wegener s disease glomerulonephritis aplastic anemia paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria myelodysplastic syndrome idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura autoimmune hemolytic anemia Evan s syndrome Factor VIII inhibitor syndrome systemic vasculitis dermatomyositis polymyositis and rheumatic fever.

In certain embodiments the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints of the present invention can be used to detect diseases associated with infections with any of a variety of infectious organisms such as viruses bacteria parasites and fungi. Infectious organisms may comprise viruses e.g. RNA viruses DNA viruses human immunodeficiency virus HIV hepatitis A B and C virus herpes simplex virus HSV cytomegalovirus CMV Epstein Barr virus EBV human papilloma virus HPV parasites e.g. protozoan and metazoan pathogens such as species species species species bacteria e.g. in particular fungi e.g. species species and prions.

A further embodiment of the present invention comprises a business method of diagnosing a particular disease in a subject that comprises detecting an organ specific molecular blood fingerprint as described herein.

Thus the present invention contemplates methods for a manufacturing one or more of the detection reagents panels arrays b providing diagnostic services for determining organ specific blood fingerprints c providing manufacturers of genomics devices the use of the detection reagents panels arrays blood fingerprints or transcriptomes described herein to develop diagnostic devices where the genomics device includes any device that may be used to define differences in a blood sample between the normal and disturbed state d providing manufacturers of proteomics devices the use of the detection reagents panels arrays blood fingerprints or transcriptomes described herein to develop diagnostic devices where the proteomics device includes any device that may be used to define differences in a blood sample between the normal and disturbed state and e providing manufacturers of imaging devices the use of the detection reagents panels arrays blood fingerprints or transcriptomes described herein to develop diagnostic devices where the proteomics device includes any device that may be used to define differences in a blood sample between the normal and disturbed state f providing manufacturers of molecular imaging devices the use of the detection reagents panels arrays blood fingerprints or transcriptomes described herein to develop diagnostic devices where the proteomics device includes any device that may be used to define differences in a blood sample between the normal and disturbed state and g marketing to healthcare providers the benefits of using the detection reagents panels arrays and diagnostic services of the present invention to enhance diagnostic capabilities and thus to better treat patients.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for conducting a business which includes a manufacturing one or more of the detection reagents panels arrays b providing diagnostic services for determining organ specific molecular blood fingerprints and c marketing to healthcare providers the benefits of using the detection reagents panels arrays and diagnostic services of the present invention to enhance diagnostic capabilities and thus to better treat patients.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for conducting a business comprising a providing a distribution network for selling the detection reagents panels arrays diagnostic services and access to organ specific molecular blood fingerprint databases b providing instruction material to physicians or other skilled artisans for using the detection reagents panels arrays and organ specific molecular blood fingerprint databases to improve diagnostics for patients.

Yet another aspect of the invention relates to a method for conducting a business comprising a identifying organ specific secreted proteins in the blood sera etc. b determining the organ specific molecular fingerprint for any of a variety of diseases as described herein and c providing a distribution network for selling access to the database of organ specific molecular fingerprints identified in step b .

For instance the subject business method can include an additional step of providing a sales group for marketing the database or panels or arrays to healthcare providers.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for conducting a business comprising a determining one or more organ specific molecular blood fingerprints and b licensing to a third party the rights for further development and sale of panels arrays and information databases related to the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints of a .

The business methods of the present application relate to the commercial and other uses of the methodologies panels arrays organ specific secreted proteins organ specific molecular blood fingerprints and databases comprising identified fingerprints of the present invention. In one aspect the business method includes the marketing sale or licensing of the present invention in the context of providing consumers i.e. patients medical practitioners medical service providers and pharmaceutical distributors and manufacturers with all aspects of the invention described herein e.g. the methods for identifying organ specific secreted proteins detection reagents for such proteins molecular blood fingerprints etc. as provided by the present invention .

In a particular embodiment of the present invention a business method relating to providing information related to molecular blood fingerprints e.g. levels of the plurality of organ specific secreted proteins that make up a given fingerprint method for determining fingerprints and sale of panels for determining such molecular blood fingerprints. In a specific embodiment that method may be implemented through the computer systems of the present invention. For example a user e.g. a health practitioner such as a physician or a diagnostic laboratory technician may access the computer systems of the present invention via a computer terminal and through the Internet or other means. The connection between the user and the computer system is preferably secure.

In practice the user may input for example information relating to a patient such as the patient s disease state e.g. levels determined for the proteins that make up a given molecular blood fingerprint using a panel or array of the present invention. The computer system may then through the use of the resident computer programs provide a diagnosis that fits with the input information by matching the fingerprint parameters e.g. levels of the proteins present in the blood as detected using a particular panel or array of the present invention with a database of fingerprints.

A computer system in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention may be for example an enhanced IBM AS 400 mid range computer system. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the methods and apparatus of the present invention apply equally to any computer system regardless of whether the computer system is a complicated multi user computing apparatus or a single user device such as a personal computer or workstation. Computer systems suitably comprise a processor main memory a memory controller an auxiliary storage interface and a terminal interface all of which are interconnected via a system bus. Note that various modifications additions or deletions may be made to the computer system within the scope of the present invention such as the addition of cache memory or other peripheral devices.

The processor performs computation and control functions of the computer system and comprises a suitable central processing unit CPU . The processor may comprise a single integrated circuit such as a microprocessor or may comprise any suitable number of integrated circuit devices and or circuit boards working in cooperation to accomplish the functions of a processor.

In a preferred embodiment the auxiliary storage interface allows the computer system to store and retrieve information from auxiliary storage devices such as magnetic disk e.g. hard disks or floppy diskettes or optical storage devices e.g. CD ROM . One suitable storage device is a direct access storage device DASD . A DASD may be a floppy disk drive that may read programs and data from a floppy disk. It is important to note that while the present invention has been and will continue to be described in the context of a fully functional computer system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the present invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of signal bearing media include recordable type media such as floppy disks and CD ROMS and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links including wireless communication links.

The computer systems of the present invention may also comprise a memory controller through use of a separate processor which is responsible for moving requested information from the main memory and or through the auxiliary storage interface to the main processor. While for the purposes of explanation the memory controller is described as a separate entity those skilled in the art understand that in practice portions of the function provided by the memory controller may actually reside in the circuitry associated with the main processor main memory and or the auxiliary storage interface.

Furthermore the computer systems of the present invention may comprise a terminal interface that allows system administrators and computer programmers to communicate with the computer system normally through programmable workstations. It should be understood that the present invention applies equally to computer systems having multiple processors and multiple system buses. Similarly although the system bus of the preferred embodiment is a typical hardwired multidrop bus any connection means that supports bidirectional communication in a computer related environment could be used.

The main memory of the computer systems of the present invention suitably contains one or more computer programs relating to the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints and an operating system. Computer program is used in its broadest sense and includes any and all forms of computer programs including source code intermediate code machine code and any other representation of a computer program. The term memory as used herein refers to any storage location in the virtual memory space of the system. It should be understood that portions of the computer program and operating system may be loaded into an instruction cache for the main processor to execute while other files may well be stored on magnetic or optical disk storage devices. In addition it is to be understood that the main memory may comprise disparate memory locations.

All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Moreover all numerical ranges utilized herein explicitly include all integer values within the range and selection of specific numerical values within the range is contemplated depending on the particular use. Further the following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation.

Prostate cancer is the most common nondermatological cancer in the United States Greenlee R. T. et al. 50 7 33 2000 . Initially its growth is androgen dependent AD early stage therapies including chemical and surgical castration kill cancerous cells by androgen deprivation. Although such therapies produce tumor regression they eventually fail because most prostate carcinomas become androgen independent AI Isaacs J. T. 26 263 273 1999 . To improve the efficacy of prostate cancer therapy it is necessary to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the transition from androgen dependence to androgen independence.

The transition from AD to AI status likely results from multiple processes including activation of oncogenes inactivation of tumor suppressor genes and changes in key components of signal transduction pathways and gene regulatory networks. Systems approaches to biology and disease are predicated on the identification of the elements of the systems the delineation of their interactions and their changes in distinct disease states. Biological information is of two types the digital information of the genome e.g. genes and cis control elements and environmental cues. Proteins rarely act in isolation rather they form parts of molecular machines or participate in network interactions mediating cellular functions such as signal transduction and developmental or physiological response patterns. Gene regulatory networks whose architecture and linkages are established by cis control elements integrate information from signal transduction networks and output it to developmental or physiological batteries or networks of effector proteins. Normal protein and gene regulatory networks may be perturbed by disease through genetic and or environmental perturbations and understanding these differences lies at the heart of systems approaches to disease. Disease perturbed networks initiate altered responses that bring about pathologic phenotypes such as the invasiveness of cancer cells.

To map network perturbations in cancer initiation and progression changes in expression levels of virtually all transcripts must be measured. Certain low abundance transcripts such as those encoding transcription factors and signal transducers wield significant regulatory influences in spite of the fact they may be present in the cell at very low copy numbers. Differential display Bussemakers M. J. et al. 59 5975 5979 1999 or cDNA microarrays Vaarala M. H. et al. 80 1259 1268 2000 Chang G. T. et al. 57 4075 4081 1997 have been used to profile changes in gene expression during the AD to AI transition however those technologies can identify only a limited number of more abundant mRNAs and they miss many low abundance mRNAs due to their low detection sensitivities. Massively parallel signature sequencing MPSS allows 20 nucleotide signature sequences to be determined in parallel for more than 1 000 000 DNA sequences Brenner et al. 2000 supra . MPSS technology allows identification and cataloging of almost all mRNAs that are changed between two cell states even those with one or a few transcripts per cell or between different organs or tissues. Differentially expressed genes thus identified can be mapped onto cellular networks to provide a systemic understanding of changes in cellular state.

Although transcriptome mRNA levels differences are easier to study than proteome protein levels differences and provide extremely valuable information cellular functions are usually performed by proteins. RNA expression profiling studies do not address how the encoded proteins function biologically and transcript abundance levels do not always correlate with protein abundance levels Chen G. et al. 1 304 313 2002 . Therefore the mRNA expression profiling described herein was complemented with a more limited protein profiling by using isotope coded affinity tags ICAT coupled with tandem mass spectrometry MS MS Gygi S. P. et al. 17 994 999 1999 .

The LNCaP cell line is a widely used androgen sensitive model for early stage prostate cancer from which androgen independent sublines have been generated Vaarala M. H. et al. 2000 supra Chang G. T. et al. 1997 supra Patel B. J. et al. 164 1420 1425 2000 . The cells of one such variant CL 1 in contrast to their LNCaP progenitors are highly tumorigenic and exhibit invasive and metastatic characteristics in intact and castrated mice Patel G. J. et al. 2000 supra Tso C. L. et al. 6 220 233 2000 . Thus CL 1 cells model late stage prostate cancer. MPSS and ICAT data extracted from these model cell lines can be validated by real time RT PCR or western blot analysis in more relevant biological models tumor xenografts and in tumor biopsies.

An MPSS analysis of about 5 million signatures was conducted for the androgen dependent LNCaP cell line and its androgen independent derivative CL1. The resulting database offers the first comprehensive view of the digital transcriptomes of prostate cancer cells and allows exploration of the cellular pathways perturbed during the transition from AD to AI growth. Additionally protein expression profiles between LNCaP and CL1 cells were compared using ICAT MS MS technology. Further computational analysis was used to identify those proteins that are secreted. Once such protein was further investigated and shown to be a diagnostic marker for prostate cancer used either alone or in combination with the known PSA prostate cancer marker.

LNCaP and CL1 cells were grown using methods known in the art for example as described by Tso et al. 2000 supra . RNAs were isolated using Trizol Life Technologies according to the manufacturer s protocols see e.g. as described by Nelson et al. 99 11890 11895 2002 . MPSS cDNA libraries were constructed individual cDNA sequences were amplified and attached to individual beads and sequenced as described by Brenner et al. 2000 supra. The resulting signatures generally 20 bases in length were annotated using the then most recently annotated human genome sequence human genome release hg16 released in November 2003 and the human Unigene Unigene build 184 according to a previously published method Meyers B. C. et al. 14 1641 1653 2004 . Only 100 matches between an MPSS signature and a genome signature were considered. Those signatures that expressed at less than 3 tpm in both LNCaP and CL1 libraries were also excluded as they might not be reliably detected this represents less than one transcript per cell Jongeneel C. V. et al. 2003 . Additionally cDNA signatures were classified by their positions relative to polyadenylation signals and poly A tails and by their orientation relative to the 5 3 orientation of source mRNA. The Z test Man M. Z. et al. 16 953 959 2000 was used to calculate P values for comparison of gene expression levels between the cell lines.

ICAT reagents were purchased from Applied Biosystems Inc. Fractionation of cells into cytosolic microsomal and nuclear fractions as well as ICAT labeling MS MS and data analyses were performed as described by Han et al. 19 946 951 2001. In addition probability score analysis Keller A. et al. 74 5383 5392 2002 and ASAPRatio Automated Statistical Analysis on Protein Ratio Li X. J. et al. 75 6648 6657 2003 were used to assess the quality of MS spectra and to calculate protein ratios from multiple peptide ratios. Briefly and as described at http colon double slash regis dot systemsbiology dot net software Automated Statistical Analysis on Protein Ratio ASAPRatio accurately calculates the relative abundances of proteins and the corresponding confidence intervals from ICAT type ESI LC MS data. The software first uses a Savitzky Golay smoothing filter to reconstruct LC spectra of a peptide and its partner in a single charge state subtracts background noise from each spectrum and calculates light heavy ratio of the peptide in that charge state. The ratios of the same peptide in different charge states are averaged and weighted by the corresponding spectrum intensity to obtain the peptide light heavy ratio and its error. Subsequently all unique peptides identified for a given protein are collected their ratios and errors calculated outliers are checked for using Dixon s tests and the relative abundance and confidence interval for the protein are calculated by applying statistics for weighed samples. The software quickly generates a list of interesting proteins based on their relative abundance. A byproduct of the software is to identify outlier peptides which may be misidentified or more interestingly post translationally modified. To compare protein and mRNA expression levels the Unigene numbers of the differentially expressed proteins were used to find MPSS signatures and their expression levels in transcripts per million tpm . If one Unigene had more than one MPSS signature likely due to alternative terminations the average tpm of all signatures was taken.

All primers were designed with the PRIMER3 program httpcolon double slash www genome dot wi dot mit dot edu slash cgi bin slash primer slash primer3 www dot cgi and BLAST searched against the human cDNA and EST database for uniqueness. Real time PCR was performed on an ABI 7700 machine PE Biosystems and the SYBR Green dye Molecular Probe Inc. was used as a reporter. PCR conditions were designed to give bands of the expected size with minimal primer dimer bands.

Genes in the 328 Biocarta and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes KEGG pathways or networks http colon double slash cgap dot nci dot nih dot gov slash Pathways slash were downloaded and compared with the MPSS data using Unigene IDs as identifiers. If a Unigene ID or an E.C. number corresponded to multiple signatures potentially due to multiple alternatively terminated isoforms the tpm counts of the isoforms were combined and then subjected to the Z test Man M. Z. et al. 2000 supra . Genes with P values of 0.001 or less were considered to be significantly differentially expressed. The following criteria were used to identify perturbed networks a perturbed network must have more than 3 genes represented our differentially expressed gene list p

Cytoscape software was used www dot cytoscape dot org Shannon P. et al. 13 2498 2504 2003 to map the data onto the web of intracellular molecular interactions. We imported metabolic network maps and related information such as enzymes substrates and reactions from the recently developed KEGG http colon double slash www dot genome dot ad dot jp slash API 2.0 web server into the Cytoscape program. Expression data were thus automatically mapped to the KEGG and Biocarta pathways networks and visualized by Cytoscape.

Using MPSS technology 2.22 million signature sequences were sequenced for LNCaP cells and 2.96 million for CL1 cells.

A total of 19 595 unique transcript signatures expressed at levels 3 tpm in at least one of the samples were identified. The signatures were classified into three major categories 1093 signatures matched repeat sequences 15 541 signatures matched unique cDNAs or ESTs and 2961 signatures had no matches to any cDNA or EST sequences but did match genomic sequences . The last category included sequences falling into one of three different categories signatures representing new transcripts yet to be defined signatures representing polymorphisms in cDNA sequences a match of an MPSS sequence to cDNA or EST sequences requires 100 sequence identity or errors in the MPSS reads. Transcript tags with matches to a cDNA or EST sequence were further classified based on the signatures relative orientation to transcription direction and their position relative to a polyadenylation site and or poly A tail. A searchable MySQL database www dot mysql dot corn was also built containing the expression levels tpm the genomic locations of the MPSS sequences the cDNAs or EST matches and the classification of each signature.

The first analysis was restricted to those MPSS signatures corresponding to cDNAs with poly A tails and or polyadenylation sites so that corresponding genes could be conclusively identified. The Z test was used to compare differential gene expression between LNCaP cells and CL1 cells Mann et al. 2000 supra . Using very stringent P values less than 0.001 2088 MPSS signatures were identified corresponding to 1987 unique genes as some genes have two or more MPSS signatures due to alternative usages of polyadenylation sites with significant differential expression. Of these 1011 signatures 965 genes were overexpressed in CL1 cells and 1077 signatures 1022 genes were overexpressed in LNCaP cells. The significance score of Z test was dependent on the expression level. If a cut off P value of less than 0.001 was taken in the dataset the expression level in tpm changed from 0 to 26 tpm for the most lowly expressed transcript 26 fold and changed from 7591 and 11206 tpm for the most highly expressed transcript 1.48 fold .

The expression levels of nine randomly chosen genes were identified using the MPSS and quantitative real time RT PCR techniques and showed that both RNA data sets were concordant. The MPSS expression profiling data were consistent with the available published data. For example using RT PCR Patel et al. Patel B. J. et al. 164 1420 1425 2000 showed that CL1 tumors express barely detectable prostate specific antigen PSA and androgen receptor AR mRNAs as compared with LNCaP cells. The present MPSS results indicated that LNCaP cells expressed 584 tpm of androgen receptor AR and 841 tpm of PSA CL1 cells did not express either AR or PSA 0 tpm in both cases . Freedland et al. found that CD10 expression was lost in CL1 cells compared with LNCaP cells Freedland S. J. et al. 55 71 80 2003 the present study found that CD10 was expressed at 0 tpm in CL1 cells but at 56 tpm in LNCaP cells. Using cDNA microarrays Vaarala et al. Vaarala M. H. et al. 80 1259 1268 2000 compared LNCaP cells and another androgen independent variant non PSA producing LNCaP line which is similar to CL1 and identified a total of 56 differentially expressed genes. We found completely concordant expression changes in these 56 genes between LNCaP and CL1 in contrast to 1987 found by MPSS and between LNCaP and non PSA producing LNCaP cells. This underscores the striking differences in sensitivity between the MPSS and cDNA microarray techniques.

CL1 cells do not express AR and thus lack the AR mediated response program. To distinguish androgen response from other programs contributing to prostate cancer progression the list of genes differentially expressed between LNCaP and CL1 cells were compared with a complementary list derived from MPSS analysis of LNCaP cells grown in the presence or absence of androgens LNCaP R R . From the 1987 differentially expressed gene between LNCaP and CL1 525 genes were identified that were also differentially expressed in the LNCaP R R dataset. Differential expression of these genes between LNCaP and CL1 cells probably reflects the fact that LNCaP cells express AR but CL1 does not and the fact that normal medium contains some androgen. The remaining 1462 differentially expressed genes were not directly related to cellular AR status.

To compare the sensitivity of the MPSS and cDNA microarray procedures cDNA microarrays containing 40 000 human cDNAs were hybridized to the same LNCaP and CL1 RNAs that were used for MPSS. Three replicate array hybridizations were performed. MPSS signatures and array clone IDs were mapped to Unigene IDs for data extraction and comparisons. The results showed that only those genes expressed at 40 tpm by MPSS could be reliably detected as changing levels by cDNA microarray hybridizations judged by an expression level twice the standard deviation of the background a standard cutoff value for microarray data analysis . This observation is consistent with the 33 60 tpm sensitivity of microarrays estimated from the experiment performed by Hill et al. Science 290 809 812 2000 in which known concentrations of synthetic transcripts were added. In LNCaP and CL1 cells about 68.75 13 471 of 19 595 of MPSS signatures 3 tpm were expressed at a level below 40 tpm changes in the levels of these genes will be missed by microarray methods. Many attempts have been made to increase the sensitivity of DNA array technology Han M. et al. 19 631 635 2001 Bao P. et al. 74 1792 1797 2002. however the present study has not compared these new improvements against MPSS but it is clear that there will still be significant differences in the levels of change that can be detected.

SAGE serial analysis of gene expression Velculescu V. E. et al. 16 423 425 2000 is another technology for gene expression profiling like MPSS it is digital and can generate a large number of signature sequences. However MPSS which can sequence 1 million signatures per sample can achieve a much deeper coverage than SAGE typical 10 000 100 000 signatures sequenced sample at reasonable cost. The MPSS data on LNCaP cells was compared against publicly available SAGE data on LNCaP cells NCBI SAGE database through common Unigene IDs. The SAGE library GSM724 total SAGE tags sequenced 22 721 Lal A. et al. 59 5403 5407 1999 was derived from LNCaP cells with an inactivated 400 about 20 of the 1987 significantly differentially expressed genes P

Examination of the GO Gene Ontology classification of the 1987 genes revealed that multiple cellular processes change during the transition from LNCaP cells to CL1 cells. The most interesting groups categorized by function are shown in Table 1.

Nineteen differentially expressed proteins are related to apoptosis. Twelve of these are up regulated in CL1 cells including the apoptosis inhibitors Taxi human T cell leukemia virus type I binding protein 1 TAX1BP1 and CASP8 and FADD like apoptosis regulator. Seven are down regulated in CL1 including programmed cell death 8 and 5 apoptosis inducing factors and BCL2 like 13 an apoptosis facilitator . Since CL1 cells have increased expression of apoptosis inhibitors and decreased expression of apoptosis inducers net inhibition of apoptosis may contribute to their greater tumorigenicity.

Matrix metalloproteinases MMPs which degrade extracellular matrix components that physically impede cell migration are implicated in tumor cell growth invasion and metastasis. MMP1 2 10 and 13 were found to be significantly overexpressed in CL1 cells Table 1 which may partially explain these cells aggressive and metastatic behavior.

CD cluster designation of monoclonal antibodies markers are generally localized at the cell surface some may be associated with prostate cancer Liu A. Y. et al. 40 192 199 1999 . All currently identified CD markers CD1 to CD247 from the PROW CD index database www dot ncbi dot nlm dot nih dot govslash prow slash guide slash 45277084 dot htm were converted to UniGene numbers and the Unigene numbers used to identify their signatures and their expression levels. Fifteen CD markers were identified that were differentially expressed between LNCaP and CL1 cells Z score35 tpm Table 1 making them good digital or absolute markers or therapeutic targets. These data suggest that carefully selected CD markers may be useful in following the progression of prostate cancer and indeed could serve as potential targets for antibody mediated therapies Liu A. Y. et al. 40 192 199 1999 .

Genes and proteins rarely act alone but rather generally operate in networks of interactions. Identifying key nodes proteins in the disease perturbed networks may provide insights into effective drug targets. Comparing the genes proteins currently available in the 314 BioCarta and 155 KEGG pathway or network http colon double slash cgap dot nci dot nih dot gov slash Pathways slash databases with the MPSS data through Unigene IDs we identified 37 BioCarta and 14 KEGG pathways that are up regulated and 23 BioCarta and 22 KEGG pathways down regulated in LNCaP cells versus CL1 cells Table 2 . The number of genes whose expression patterns changed in each pathway is listed in Table 2. Each gene along with its expression level in LNCaP and CL1 cells is listed pathway by pathway in our database ftp colon double slash ftp dot systemsbiology dot net slash blin slash mpss . Changes in these pathways reveal the underlying phenotypic differences between LNCaP and CL1 cells. For example multiple networks involved in modulating cell mobility adhesion and spreading are up regulated in CL1 cells which are more metastatic and invasive than LNCaP cells Table 2 . In the uCalpain and Friends in Cell Spread pathway calpains are calcium dependent thiol proteases implicated in cytoskeletal rearrangements and cell migration. During cell migration calpain cleaves target proteins such as talin ezrin and paxillin at the leading edge of the membrane while at the same time cleaving the cytoplasmic tails of the integrins 1 a and 3 b to release adhesion attachments at the trailing membrane edge. Increased activity of calpains increases migration rates and facilitates cell invasiveness Liu A. et al. Prostate 40 192 199 1999 .

Many pathways we identified as perturbed in the LNCaP and CL1 comparison are interconnected to form networks in fact there are probably no discrete pathways only networks . For example the insulin signaling pathway the signal transduction through IL1R pathway NF kB signaling pathway are interconnected through c Jun IL1R and NF kB. The mapping of genes onto networks pathways will be an ongoing objective as more networks pathways become available. Our transcriptome data will be an invaluable resource in delineating these relationships.

As gene regulatory networks controlled by transcription factors form the top layer of the hierarchy that controls the physiological network we sought to identify differentially expressed transcription factors. Of 554 transcription factors expressed in LNCaP and CL1 cells 112 showed significantly different levels between the cell lines P

We quantitatively profiled the protein expression changes between LNCaP and CL1 cells using the ICAT MS MS protocol described by Han et al. 19 946 951 2001. To increase proteome coverage cells were separated into nuclear cytosolic and microsomal fractions prior to ICAT analysis as described in Han et al. 2001 supra. We generated a total of 142 849 tandem mass spectra 7282 of which corresponded to peptides with a mass spectrum quality score P value Keller A. et al. 2002 October 15 74 20 5383 92 greater than 0.9 allowing unambiguous identification of peptides . These 7282 peptides represented 971 proteins Keller A. et al. 2002 supra . We obtained quantitative peptide ratios for 4583 peptides corresponding to 941 proteins. The number of peptides is greater than the number of proteins because 1 mass spectrometry identified multiple peptides from the same protein and 2 the ionization step of mass spectrometry created different charge states for the same peptide. The protein ratios were calculated from multiple peptide ratios using an algorithm for the automated statistical analysis of protein abundance ratios ASAPRatio Li X. J. et al. 75 6648 6657 2003 . In the end we identified 82 proteins that are down regulated and 108 proteins that are up regulated by at least 1.8 fold in LNCaP cells compared with CL1 cells. For example five proteins belong to annexins that were markers for prostate and other cancers Hayes M. J. and Moss S. E. 322 1166 1170 2004 seven are involved in fatty acids and lipid metabolism that are involved in the carcinogenesis and progression of prostate cancer Pandian S. S. et al. 44 352 361 1999 five are related to apoptosis 11 are cancer related and five proteins are putative transcription factors. As we only identified a limited number of proteins that are significantly differentially expressed due to low sensitivity of ICAT technology we were only able to identify a few pathways that are perturbed based on ICAT data alone using the stringent criteria discussed above . This also illustrated importance of MPSS analysis described earlier.

103 of 190 54 differentially expressed proteins identified have enzymatic activity and hence many are involved in metabolism. Notably many of the proteins identified are involved in fatty acid and lipid metabolism including fatty acid synthase carnitine palmitoyltransferase II and propionyl Coenzyme A carboxylase alpha polypeptide. Fatty acid and lipid metabolism is known to be perturbed in prostate cancer Fleshner N. et al. 171 S19 24 2004 . Additionally many genes involved in lipid transport were altered including the annexins prosaposin and fatty acid binding protein 5. Annexin A1 has previously been shown to be overexpressed in non PSA producing LNCaP cells as compared with PSA producing LNCaP cells Vaarala M. H. et al. 2000 supra . Annexin A7 is postulated to be a prostate tumor suppressor gene Cardo Vila M. et al. 1 92 94 2001 . Annexin A2 expression is reduced or lost in prostate cancer cells and its re expression inhibits prostate cancer cell migration Liu J. W. et al. 22 1475 1485 2003 .

Other genes identified here have been implicated in carcinogenesis including tumor suppressor p16 and insulin like growth factor 2 receptor Chi S. G. et al. 3 1889 1897 1997 Kiess W. et al. 41 Suppl 2 66 73 1994 . Some genes have previously been implicated in prostate cancer such as prostate cancer over expressed gene 1 POV1 which is over expressed in prostate cancer Cole K. A. et al. 51 282 287 1998 and delta 1 and alpha 1 catenin cadherin associated protein and junction plakoglobin which are down regulated in prostate cancer cells Kallakury B. V. et al. 92 2786 2795 2001 . However the potential relationships of most of the proteins identified here to prostate cancer require further elucidation. For example transmembrane protein 4 TMEM4 a gene predicted to encode a 182 amino acid type II transmembrane protein is downregulated about twofold in CL1 cells compared with LNCaP cells. MPSS data also indicated that TMEM4 is down regulated about twofold in CL1 cells. Many type II transmembrane proteins such as TMPRSS2 are overexpressed in prostate cancer patients Vaarala M. H. et al. 94 705 710 2001 . It will be interesting to see whether TMEM4 overexpression plays a primary role in prostate carcinogenesis. We also identified 12 proteins that have not been annotated or functionally characterized.

The mRNA expression level of eight proteins change from 0 tpm in LNCaP cells to greater than 50 tpm we called them digital changes because they go from zero to some expression in CL1 cells and that of one protein changed from 0 tpm in CL1 cells to greater than 50 in LNCaP cells. These genes can be used as digital diagnostic signals. Twenty two of the differentially expressed proteins were predicted to be secreted proteins See Table 3 and can be further evaluated as serum marker see also Example 2 below .

Additionally we sought to compare the expression at the protein level with that at the mRNA level. We converted the protein IDs and MPSS signatures to Unigene IDs to compare the MPSS data with the ICAT MS MS data. We limited this comparison to those with common Unigene IDs and with reliable ICAT ratios standard deviation less than 0.5 and ended up with a subset of 79 proteins. Of these 66 genes 83.5 were concordant in their changes in mRNA and protein levels of expression and 13 genes 16.5 were discordant i.e. having higher protein expression but lower mRNA expression or vice versa. There are no functional similarities among the discordant genes. As these mRNAs and proteins are expressed at relatively high levels discordance due to measurement errors is unlikely. Clearly posttranscriptional mechanism s of protein expression are functioning although the elucidation of the specific mechanism s awaits further studies.

Thus these results and those described in the Examples below indicate a systems approach to disease will offer powerful tools for diagnostics therapeutics and even aid in prevention in the future.

Secreted proteins can readily be exploited for blood cancer diagnosis and prognosis. As such the differentially expressed genes identified in Example 1 were further analyzed to determine how many of the differentially expressed genes encode secreted proteins. Proteins with signal peptides classical secretory proteins were predicted using the same criteria described by Chen et al. Mamm Genome 14 859 865 2003 with the SignalP 3.0 server developed by The Center for Biological Sequence Analysis Lyngby Denmark http colon double slash www dot cbs dot dtu dot dk slash services slash SignalP 3.0 see also J. D. Bendtsen et al. 340 783 795 2004. and the TMHMM2.0 server see for example A. Krogh et al. 305 3 567 580 January 2001 E. L. L. Sonnhammer et al. In J. Glasgow T. Littlejohn F. Major R. Lathrop D. Sankoff and C. Sensen editors pages 175 182 Menlo Park Calif. 1998. AAAI Press . Putatively nonclassical secretory secreted proteins without signal peptides were predicted based on the SecretomeP 1.0 server httpcolon double slash www dot cbs dot dtu dot dkslash services slash SecretomeP 1.0 slash and required an odds ratio score 3.

Five hundred and twenty one signatures belonging to 460 genes potentially encoding secreted proteins Table 3 were identified. Among these 287 259 genes and 234 201 genes signatures were overexpressed or underexpressed in CL1 cells compared with LNCaP cells. Thus these proteins can be used in blood diagnostics to follow prostate cancer progression.

This example describes a multiparameter diagnostic fingerprint using the WDR19 prostate specific secreted protein in combination with PSA. The WDR19 prostate specific protein is diagnostically superior to PSA when used alone and further improved prostate cancer detection when used in combination with PSA.

WDR19 was previously identified as relatively tissue specific by cDNA array studies and Northern blot analysis see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20020150893 . This protein was selected expressed as protein purified and antibodies were made against it all using standard techniques known in the art the cDNA encoding the WDR19 protein is provided in SEQ ID NO 1 the amino acid sequence is provided in SEQ ID NO 2 . The WDR19 specific antibody was shown to be an excellent tissue specific marker of prostate cancer with staining of the specific epithelial cells being directly proportional to the progression of the cancer. In this regard it is very different from the well established PSA marker which is not a good prostate tissue cancer marker.

The WDR19 antibodies and those for the well established PSA prostate cancer blood marker were used to analyze 10 blood samples from normal individuals 10 blood samples from early prostate cancer patients and 10 blood samples from late prostate cancer patients. The results showed that WDR19 reacted against no normals against 5 10 early cancers and against 5 10 late cancers whereas PSA reacted against no normals no early cancers and 7 10 late cancers. The two markers together detected all the late cancers. Thus the mutiparameter analysis of blood markers e.g. the analyses of multiple markers for prostate cancer was far more powerful than using each marker alone.

Accordingly the results show a molecular blood fingerprint that comprises the WDR19 and PSA proteins. This fingerprint allows superior diagnostic power to PSA alone and further improves prostate cancer detection.

WDR19 was also shown to be an effective histochemical marker for prostate cancer. Two hundred and seventy five tissue cores that contain both stromal and epithelial cells from cancer patients 17 from benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH and 12 from normal individuals were examined. The mean WDR19 protein staining intensities were 2.52 standard error S.E. 0.05 95 confidence interval CI 2.41 2.61 for prostate cancer 1.03 BPH S.E. 0.03 95 CI 0.96 1.09 and 1.0 S.E. 0 95 CI 1.0 1.0 for normal individuals. Pair wise comparisons using independent t test demonstrated that WDR19 staining intensity is significantly different between prostate cancer and BPH mean difference 1.49 P

MPSS as described in Example 1 and in the detailed description was used to identify more than 2 million transcripts from each of the prostate cell lines see Example 1 and in normal prostate tissue. The MPSS signature sequences from normal prostate were compared against 29 other tissues each with about 1 million or more mRNA transcripts. This comparison revealed that about 300 of these transcripts are organ specific and about 60 of these organ specific transcripts are potentially secreted into the blood. See Table 4 .

In an additional experiment the transcriptome from normal prostate tissue was compared to the transcriptome of each of the LNCaP and CL 1 prostate cancer cell lines. The comparison showed that the transcriptomes were distinct for the normal tissue the early prostate cancer and the late prostate cancer. An additional comparison was carried out between localized prostate cancer and metastases in the liver. About 6 000 genes were identified that were significantly changed between the localized prostate cancer and the metastasized cancer and again many of the changed genes encoded secreted proteins that can be part of the blood fingerprints indicative of the more advanced disease status of metastases. The metastases altered blood fingerprints may indicate the site of metastases.

These experiments demonstrate that there are continuous changes in the two types of networks as prostate cancer progresses from localized to androgen independence to metastases. These graded network transitions suggest that one will be able to detect the very earliest stages of prostate cancer and accordingly that the organ specific molecular blood fingerprints approach described herein will also permit a very early diagnosis of prostate and other types of cancers.

This experiment demonstrates perturbation specific fingerprints of patterns of gene expression for nuclear cytoplasmic membrane bound and secreted proteins in the yeast metabolic system that converts the sugar galactose into glucose 6 phosphate the gal system .

The gal systems includes 9 proteins. In the course of studying how this systems works 9 new strains of yeast were created each with a different one of the 9 relevant genes destroyed gene knockouts . Yeast is a single celled eukaryote organism with about 6 000 genes. The expression patterns of each of the 6 000 genes was studied in the wild type yeast and each of the 9 knockout strains. The data from these experiments showed 1 the wild type and each of knock out strains exhibited statistically significant changes in patterns of gene expression from the wild type strain ranging from 89 to 465 altered patterns of gene expression 2 each of these patterns of changed gene expression were unique and 3 on average about 15 of the genes with changed expression patterns encoded proteins that were potentially secreted as determined by computational analysis from the sequence of the gene . These genes are as follows listed by gene name as available through the public yeast genome database at http www.yeastgenome.org . The genomic DNA cDNA and amino acid sequences corresponding to each of the listed genes are publicly available for example through the yeast genome database. YGL102C YGL069C YLL044W YMR321C YKL153W YMR195W YHL015W YNL096C YGR030C YDR123C YKL186C YOR234C YKL186C YJL188C YDL023C YPL143W YEL039C YKL006W YGR280C YBR285W YKR091W YDR064W YBR047W YGR243W YOR309c YDR461W YHR053C YHR055C YGR148C YGL187C YIL018W YFR003C YPL107W YBR185C YNR014W YJL067W YDR451C YGL031C YHR141C YNL162W YBR046C YNL036W YDL136W YDL191W YLR257W YNL057W YGL068W YKR057W YLR201C YHL001W YDR010C YPL138C YOR312C YPL276W YML114C YLR327C YBR191W YOR257W YOR096W YPL223C YJL136C YAL044C YER079W YMR107W YPL079W YDR175C YGR035C YDR153C YDR337W YOR167C YMR194W YOR194C YHR090C YGR110W YMR242C YHR198C YPL177C YLR164W YMR143W YDL083C YLR325C YOR203W YMR193W YLR062C YOR383C YLR300W YJL079C YJL158C YHR139C YGL032C YER150W YNL160W YDR382W YMR305C YKL096W YKR013W YCL043C YLR042C YDR055W YPL163C YEL040W YJL171C YLR121C YDR382W YLR250W YGR189C YJL159W YMR215W YDR519W YIL162W YKL163W YDR518W YDR534C YPR157W YML130C YML128C YBR092C YDR032C YLR120C YBR093C YHR215W YAR071W YDL130W YDR144C YPR123C YGR174C YOR327C YNL058C YGR265W YGR160W YIL117C YOL053W YGR236C YGR060W YKL120W YDL046W YHR132C YMR058W YLR332W YKR061W YEL001C YKL154W YKL073W YMR238W YJR020W YIL136W YHL028W YDL010W YLR339C YNL217W YHR063C.

The different knockout strains can be thought of as analogous to genetic disease mutants. Accordingly these data further support the notion that each disease has a unique expression fingerprint and that each disease generates unique collections of secreted proteins that constitute molecular fingerprints capable of identifying the corresponding disease.

Organ specific enriched expression can be determined by the ratio of the expression e.g. measured in transcripts per million tpm in a particular organ as compared to other organs. In this example prostate enriched specific expression was analyzed by comparing the expression level tpm counts of MPSS signature sequences identified from normal prostate tissue to their corresponding expression levels in 33 normal tissues. A particular gene that demonstrated at least a 2.5 fold increase in expression in prostate as compared to all tissues examined each tissue evaluated individually was considered to be prostate specific enriched. The tissues examined were adrenal gland bladder bone marrow brain amygdala caudate nucleus cerebellum corpus callosum hypothalamus and thalamus whole fetal brain heart kidney liver new cloning lung mammary gland monocytes peripheral blood lymphocytes pituitary gland placenta pancreas prostate retina spinal cord salivary gland small intestine stomach spleen testis thymus trachea thyroid and uterus. This analysis identified 109 unique genes with mpss signature sequence belonging to class 1 4 i.e. with confirmed match to cDNAs whose expression was at least 2.5 fold that observed in other normal tissues. The list of prostate specific enriched genes is provided in Tables 5A 5D with the expression level in tpm in prostate shown. This list includes KLK2 KLK3 KLK4 TMPRSS2 which are genes previously shown to be prostate specific.

Additional analysis was carried out to determine the secretion potential of the prostate specific genes identified. The analysis programs used included SignalP 3.0 Secretome 2.0 and TMHMM 2.0 see http colon double slash www dot cbs dot dtu dot dk services . The SignalP analysis identifies classical secreted proteins and was conducted using the classical secretion pathway prediction as described at http colon double slash www dot cbs dot dtu dot dk services SignalP see Jannick Dyrl w Bendtsen et al. J. Mol. Biol. 340 783 795 2004 Henrik Nielsen et al. Protein Engineering 10 1 6 1997 Henrik Nielsen and Anders Krogh. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology ISMB 6 AAAI Press Menlo Park Calif. pp. 122 130 1998 . The Secretome2.0 analysis identifies nonclassical secreted proteins see J. Dyrl v Bendtsen et al. Protein Eng. Des. Sel. 17 4 349 356 2004 . TMHMM uses hidden Markov model for three state TM helix inside outside topology prediction of transmembrane proteins see Erik L. L. Sonnhammer et al. Proc. of Sixth Int. Conf. on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology p. 175 182 Ed. J. Glasgow T. Littlejohn F. Major R. Lathrop D. Sankoff and C. Sensen Menlo Park Calif. AAAI Press 1998 . According to the SignalP analysis method proteins with an odds scoring 3 or higher have a high confidence of being secreted. However it should be noted that several proteins scoring well below 3 by this method are known to be secreted proteins detected in the blood see e.g. Table 5 KLK2 . Further these analyses do not take into account proteins that may be shed.

In summary this example identifies prostate specific and potentially secreted prostate specific proteins that can be used in diagnostic panels for the detection of diseases of the prostate.

This example describes a multiparameter diagnostic fingerprint using the NDRG1 prostate specific protein in combination with PSA. The NDRG1 prostate specific protein further improved prostate cancer detection when used in combination with PSA.

Commercially available antibodies specific for numerous proteins encoded by prostate specific genes as described in Table 5 were used to determine which proteins would be useful in a multiparameter diagnostic assay for prostate cancer. Most of the commercially available antibodies were not suitable e.g. were not sensitive enough or showed non specific binding . However the antibody available for NDRG1 anti NDRG1 Cterminal poly IgY Cat A22272B GenWay Inc was shown to specifically bind to NDRG1 from serum. NDRG1 is a member of the N myc downregulated gene NDRG family that belongs to the alpha beta hydrolase superfamily. It is classified as a tumor suppressor and heavy metal response protein. Its expression is modulated by diverse physiological and pathological conditions including hypoxia cellular differentiation heavy metal N myc and neoplasia Lachat P et al. Histochem Cell Biol. 2002 November 118 5 399 408 .

NDRG1 protein expression was analyzed in serum samples from 18 advanced prostate cancer patients 21 prostate cancer patients with localized cancer and 22 normal controls. Western blot analysis was used to measure serum protein expression as follows Serum was diluted 1 10 with lysis buffer 50 mM Hepes pH 7.4 4 mM EDTA 2 mM EGTA 2 M PMSF 20 g ml leupeptine or 1 protease inhibitor cocktail 1 mM NaVO 10 mM NaF 2 mM Na pyrophosphate 1 Triton X 100 . Protein concentration was determined using the Bio Rad protein assay kit. Serum proteins 50 g were subjected to SDS PAGE electrophoresis and transferred to a PVDF membrane Hybond P Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Piscataway N.J. . The membrane was blocked with 4 non fat milk in TBS 25 mM Tris pH 7.4 125 mM NaCl for 1 h at room temperature followed by incubation with primary antibodies against NDRG1 IgY 1 500 overnight at 4 C. The membranes were washed 3 times with TBS and then incubated with horseradish peroxidase conjugated anti rabbit IgY 1 16 000 for 1 h. The immunoblot was then washed five times with TBS and developed using an ECL Amersham . The intensities of the single band corresponding to the NDRG1 protein were then scored. The results are summarized in Table 6 together with serum PSA measurements performed using a commercial ELISA kit.

PSA was detected in 100 of the advanced prostate cancers. NDRG1 was detected in 14 out of 18 advanced cancers 78 see Table 6 scores greater than 3 . Serum PSA levels below 15 ng ml particularly levels between 4 10 ng ml often referred to as the grey zone in the PSA assay cannot reliably detect prostate cancer as PSA levels in this range may be the result of other factors such as infection prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH a common condition in older men. Additionally the normal range of PSA values increases with patient age. NDRG1 detection in serum reinforced the diagnosis of three prostate cancer patients with PSA levels between 4.9 ng ml and 15 ng ml. In these three patients the NDRG1 scores were 3 or 4 significantly higher than the NDRG1 scores in a cohort of 22 normal individuals average 0.09 range 1 to 2 .

Thus this example illustrates that the use of two or more prostate specific enriched cancer markers such as NDRG1 and PSA can improve prostate cancer diagnosis to reduce false positive and false negative rates.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

