---

title: Basic refractory and slag management for petcoke carbon feedstock in gasifiers
abstract: The disclosure provides methods of operating a slagging gasifier using a carbon feedstock having a relatively high VOto SiOratio, such as petcoke. The disclosure generates a combined chemical composition in the feed mixture having less than 25 wt. % SiO, greater than 20 wt. % VO, and greater than 20 wt. % CaO. The method takes advantage of a novel recognition that increased levels of SiOtend to decrease dissolution of the VOwhich forms under the reducing conditions of the gasifier, and utilizes the CaO additive to establish a chemical phase equilibria comprised of lower melting compounds. The method further provides for control based on the presence of AlOand FeO, and provides for a total combined chemical composition of greater than about 5 wt. % MgO for use with refractory linings comprised of MgO based refractory brick.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08703021&OS=08703021&RS=08703021
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08703021
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure relates to methods of operating a slagging gasifier using a carbon feedstock having a relatively high VOto SiOratio such as petroleum coke petcoke in conjunction with CaO and MgO additives.

The partial oxidation of solid carbonaceous fuels such as coal and or petroleum coke petcoke to produce mixtures of CO and His a common practice. Within the gasifier the carbonaceous feedstock is reacted with a controlled substoichiometric quantity of oxygen in a carbon rich environment. The specific operational processes vary depending on the type of gasifier employed and the desired CO and Hcomposition.

In a slagging gasifier nonvolatile impurities from the feedstock coalesce and form a viscous slag. The gasifier temperatures are typically optimized between about 1325 and 1575 C. to allow the slag to flow down the refractory lined walls avoiding clogging and premature shutdown and minimizing degradation of the refractory materials lining the gasification chamber. The carbonaceous fuel utilized as feed is typically coal or a mixture of coal and petcoke with the composition of the resulting slag closely related to the nonvolatile impurities present in the feedstock. Typical coal ashes generally contain significant amount of silicon aluminum and iron with substantially no Vanadium. In contrast petcoke ashes generally contain lesser amounts of silicon and a significantly increased amount of Vanadium. In typical ash analysis the quantities are reported as a weight percent wt. of the respective oxide formed under oxidizing conditions such as silica SiO alumina AlO ferrous oxide FeO and vanadium pentoxide VO and under this nomenclature coal ash compositions are generally comprised of about 45 50 wt. SiOand substantially no VO while petcoke ash compositions are generally comprised of a reduced SiOcontent and generally greater than about 20 wt. VO. Additionally coal contains approximately 10 wt. nonvolatile impurities whereas petcoke contains approximately 1 wt. on average. As a result in coal petcoke mixtures the overall slag quantity decreases as more petcoke is added while the amount of petcoke slag in the dramatically increases.

The dramatic increase in petcoke slag as additional petcoke is utilized results in increased amounts of VOentering the slagging gasifier as petcoke ash. This VOis reduced to VOunder the reducing conditions of the gasifier and correspondingly generates increased VOlevels in the resulting slag. Since VOhas a high melting point of about 1970 C. greater amounts of VOin the slag will cause the melting temperature of the slag to increase. See e.g. Nakano et al. Phase Equilibria in Synthetic Coal Petcoke Slags AlO CaO FeO SiO VO under Simulated Gasification Conditions 25 2011 and see Nakano et al. Crystallization of Synthetic Coal Petcoke Slag Mixtures Simulating Those Encountered in Entrained Bed Slagging Gasifiers 23 2009 . The presence of high melting temperature VOin the slag has a significant impact on the resulting slag viscosity of the slag at typical operating temperatures which is typically treated as a key parameter for gasifier operations. As a result feedstock composition is often optimized based on the gasifier temperatures necessary in order to maintain a relatively low viscosity slag in order to maintain satisfactory slag drainage and avoid clogging premature shutdown and material degradation and correspondingly the petcoke content of carbon feedstocks is typically limited when no additional additives are used. Viscosity can be decreased to increase slag flow by raising the gasification temperature but this has the negative effect of increasing refractory wear in the gasifier lining causing increased system downtime.

Various additives have been employed in order to increase the liquidity of slag generated by feedstocks having no or limited Vanadium content. Calcia CaO and magnesia MgO have been investigated in reducing environments on an ash mixture comprised of greater than about 40 wt. SiOand an absence of Vanadium mixed with CaO contents between 5 20 wt. . The CaO was found to decrease the melting temperature of the slag in highly reducing environments with the magnitude of the decrease relatively constant irrespective of the wt. of CaO added. See Wei et al. Effect of Additives on Slag Properties in an Entrained Bed Gasifier presented at World of Coal Ash WOCA conference May 9 12 2011 Denver Colo. Additionally for petcoke feedstocks having less than about 10 wt. CaO in the glass forming compounds addition of CaO at the rate of 0.2 0.4 pounds per ton of petcoke feedstock has been recommended. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 578 094 to Brooker et al. Additions of MgO and manganese oxide have also been reported. See U.S. Pat. No. 8 197 566 to Meschter et al. In all cases demonstrations were limited to ash compositions having an absence of Vanadium. Generally when CaO has been utilized as an additive for gasifier operations quantities have been relatively limited and the impact of CaO on the viscosity of silicate melts has been limited to silicate structure alteration from a three dimensional network to discrete anionic groups. See e.g. Zhang et al. Review and Modeling of Viscosity of Silicate Melts Part I. Viscosity of Binary and Ternary Silicates Containing CaO MgO and MnO 29B 1998 among others. Additionally as is understood CaO is extensively utilized in steelmaking for the neutralization of alumina silica sulfur phosphorous and other impurities typically found in metal ores where Vanadium content is substantially absent.

Disclosed here is a method for the operation of a slagging gasifier using a carbon feedstock where the carbon feedstock ash is relatively low in SiOand comparatively high in Vanadium content such as the composition typically found in petcoke. The method limits the SiOcontent in the resulting slag in order to increase the VOdissolution and limit SiOinteractions with basic oxides such as CaO and FeO and additionally utilizes a CaO additive to increase the solubility of VOinto slag. The increased VOdissolution generated by the reduced SiOcontent in conjunction with the CaO additive acts to produce a slag of reduced viscosity and a reduced melting temperature for slags generated by high Vanadium content feedstocks such as petcoke. The methodology thereby provides for the use of increased petcoke concentrations in carbon feedstocks utilized for the slagging gasifier as well as allowing for slagging gasifier operations at reduced temperatures.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relate to a method for the operation of a slagging gasifier using a carbon feedstock and a CaO additive. The slagging gasifier is maintained under reducing conditions with a temperature of from about 1200 C. to about 2000 C. and typically from about 1375 C. to about 1575 C. a pressure of from about 300 psi to about 1000 psi and an oxygen partial pressure of from about 10to about 10atmospheres. The carbon feedstock and the CaO additive are injected into the gasifier at respective rates such that a combined chemical composition resulting from the ash forming species of the carbon feedstock and the CaO additive is comprised of less than 25 wt. SiO greater than 20 wt. VO and greater than 20 wt. CaO. In an embodiment the VO SiOratio of greater than about 0.8.

The method has particular applicability of feedstocks comprised of ash species having relatively high VO SiOratios such as a typical petcoke. The method takes advantage of a novel recognition that increased levels of SiOtend to decrease dissolution of the VOwhich forms under the reducing conditions of the gasifier and utilizes the CaO additive to lower a melting point of the VO bearing slag and to increase the solubility of VOinto the slag. Increasing the presence of lower melting constituents in the slag while decreasing the presence of higher melting constituents has the advantage of allowing gasifier operations at a reduced temperature while concurrently providing for satisfactory drainage of slag generated by relatively high VOfeedstock such as petcoke.

The method further provides for the control of the carbon feedstock and CaO additive combined composition based on the presence of other common ash components such as AlOand FeO. In an embodiment the ash forming species of the carbon feedstock are further comprised of AlO and the carbon feedstock and the CaO additive injection rates are established such that a combined SiO AlO CaO chemical composition is comprised of greater than about 20 wt. CaO and achieves a SiO AlOratio greater than about 1.3 and less than about 9. In an additional embodiment the ash forming species are comprised of FeO and a combined FeO CaO VOchemical composition is established with less than about 20 wt. FeO and having CaO VOratio greater than about 0.25 and less than about 1.5. The method further provides for combined chemical compositions comprised of greater than about 5 wt. MgO for use with refractory linings comprised of MgO based refractory brick to decrease refractory wear.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for operating a slagging gasifier using a feedstock having a relatively high VOto SiOratio in a low oxygen partial pressure environment.

The disclosure details methods of operating a slagging gasifier using a carbon feedstock having a relatively high VOto SiOratio. The disclosure utilizes a CaO additive in order to generate a combined chemical composition in the feed mixture where the combined chemical composition is less than about 25 wt. SiO greater than about 20 wt. VO and greater than about 20 wt. CaO. The method limits the quantity of SiOin order to mitigate SiOinteractions with the basic oxides CaO and FeO such that the presence of the basic oxides provides for increased VOdissolution in the resulting slag. The increased VOdissolution mitigates the presence of VOsolids at typical gasifier temperatures and generates a lower viscosity slag.

The SiOentering the gasifier is limited to 25 wt. in order to generate a liquid slag having generally less than about 15 wt. SiO. As is understood petcoke and coal ash slags cover a wide range of mineralogical transformations and do not have the distinct melting point associated with pure materials. Rather decreases in melting points when discussed with petcoke and coal ashes are typically correlated with by decreasing viscosity. As the temperature is increased the slag becomes less viscous or more liquid like and reactions occur as various constituents become more fluid and start to dissolve the other non molten materials. Within this disclosure the SiOcontent of the carbon feedstock is limited in order to produce a reduced SiOliquid slag such that CaO introduced by a CaO additive is available to increase the dissolution of VOresulting from the high Vanadium content carbon feedstock.

The method takes advantage of a novel recognition that increased levels of SiOtend to decrease dissolution of the VOwhich precipitates out under the reducing conditions of the gasifier and utilizes the CaO additive to establish a chemical phase equilibria comprised of lower melting slag. Increasing the presence of lower melting constituents in the slag while decreasing the presence of higher melting constituents has the advantage of allowing gasifier operations at a reduced temperature while concurrently providing for satisfactory drainage of slag generated by relatively high VOfeedstock such as petcoke.

The method further provides for the control of the carbon feedstock and CaO additive combined chemical composition based on the presence of other common ash components such as AlOand FeO. The method additionally provides for combined chemical compositions comprised of greater than about 5 wt. MgO for use with refractory linings comprised of MgO based refractory brick in order to decrease refractory wear due to the formation of a small amount of MgO containing phases. The mitigation of VOsolids in the slagging gasifier of this disclosure as well as the formation of lower melting slag through the use of the CaO additive acts to generate a lower viscosity slag having acceptable flow performance at reduced gasifier temperatures.

The reaction zone is maintained at a temperature and pressure such that when the carbon feedstock water and oxygen mix in the reaction zone a gasification process occurs as the volatile products and some of the carbon feedstock reacts with oxygen to form carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide. Gasification subsequently occurs as the carbon feedstock reacts with carbon dioxide and steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Additionally some degree of water gas shift balances the concentrations of carbon monoxide steam carbon dioxide and hydrogen. The necessary heat for this process may be provided by an external source in an allothermal process or the process may be autothermal where heat is provided by the exothermal chemical reactions occurring inside the gasifier itself. The gasification process generally operates at temperatures between 1325 C. and 1575 C. and pressures between 300 psi to 1000 psi with oxygen partial pressures generally between 10and 10atm within the reaction zone.

The gaseous products of the chemical reactions in the reaction zone exit slagging gasifier at outlet . Non volatile mineral components in the carbon feedstock form a slag. The slag generated in the reaction zone of slagging gasifier is drawn by gravity toward slag tap and during transit contacts the refractory liner under the pressure and temperature conditions of the reaction zone.

In many applications the carbon feedstock utilized is a mixture of coal and petcoke where as discussed the addition of petcoke is limited in order to avoid a slag composition comprised of significant amounts of VOas a solid in the slag. Generally coal ash contains over 40 wt. SiOand a relative absence of VO while petcoke ash composition may be on the order of around 10 wt. SiOand around 40 wt. VO. The typical approach in formulating feedstocks using coal petcoke mixtures is to limit the petcoke in order to limit the VOin the feedstock and VOin the resulting slag. This practice also increases the SiOcontent. The result is the generation of a slag with a SiOcontent that is relatively high and a VOcontent which is at least acceptably low based on the desired flow characteristics of the resulting slag.

One of the recognitions of this disclosure is the impact of the increased SiOon the dissolution of VOin the resulting slag. Phase diagrams indicate that VOhas limited interactions in the slag with SiO. However VOcan easily dissolve into mixtures of the basic oxides CaO and FeO at relatively low temperatures. Inventors have recognized that in typical coal based slags SiOinteractions with the basic oxides CaO and FeO act to generate a slag having a limited availability of CaO and FeO which tends to reduce the ability to dissolve VOin the slag. As a result the larger the amount of SiOin the slag the smaller the amount of VOdissolved. The decreased VOdissolution results in a relatively high concentration of VOsolids at typical gasifier temperatures and produces a high viscosity slag.

As an example illustrates the dissolution of VOas SiOincreases. indicates behavior in slag of the AlO CaO FeO SiO VOsystem using slags comprised of about 36 62 wt. SiO about 13 wt. FeO about 8 wt. CaO and about 3 8 wt. VO. At trend line approximates the location of a collection of data points such as data point . Vanadium solubility in the slag was measured by SEM WDX on quenched samples after 3 days of equilibration at 1500 C. in Po 10atm. As indicated as the SiOcontent increases the solubility of VOin the slag decreases significantly. For example at reducing the content of SiOfrom around 60 wt. to around 35 wt. increases VOdissolution in the 3 8 wt. VOslag by about 40 from around 2.8 wt. to about 4.8 wt. . Correspondingly in the AlO CaO FeO SiO VOslags generated in the reducing gasifier operations of this disclosure limiting the SiOcontent of the generated slags acts to increase the dissolution of VOsolids in the slag and decrease the slag viscosity. This has the practical effect of allowing for increased quantities of VOin the carbon feedstock utilized for the gasifier while continuing to generate slags having sufficient drainage characteristics. For example utilizing a carbon feedstock comprised of an increased percentage of petcoke or substantially all petcoke.

In conjunction with the effect of decreased SiOand the correspondingly increased dissolution of VOin the slag the disclosure additionally utilizes a CaO additive or CaO based additive comprised of a quantity of CaO in order to lower the melting points of the resulting slag system. The presence of CaO combined with the increased dissolution of VOacts to establish a lower melting chemical phase equilibria and mitigates the presence of higher melting constituents such as VO as well as others. Increasing the presence of lower melting constituents in the slag while decreasing the presence of higher melting constituents has the advantage of allowing gasifier operations at a reduced temperature while concurrently providing for satisfactory drainage of slag generated by relatively high VOfeedstock.

The disclosure provides a method of operating a slagging gasifier such as slagging gasifier when the reaction zone between axis A A and B B is maintained at a temperature of from about 1200 C. to about 2000 C. a pressure of from about 300 psi to about 1000 psi and an oxygen partial pressure of from about 10to about 10atmospheres. The method injects a carbon feedstock into the gasifier at a feedstock injection rate. The carbon feedstock such as petcoke or a petcoke coal mixture is comprised of ash forming species where the ash forming species are comprised of SiOand VO. Concurrently as is understood water and an oxygen containing gas is introduced. In conjunction with the injection of the carbon feedstock a CaO additive comprised of a quantity of CaO is concurrently injected at an additive injection rate. The feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are maintained such that the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO entering the slagging gasifier have a combined chemical composition such that the combined chemical composition is comprised of less than 25 wt. SiO greater than 20 wt. VO and greater than about 20 wt. CaO. Under the slagging gasifier conditions the VOis reduced to VO and the presence of SiOand CaO within the limits specified provides for increased dissolution of VOand generation of a relatively low viscosity slag. Typically the carbon feedstock and CaO additive are mixed to some degree prior to injection of either into slagging gasifier and the relative feedstock and additive injection rates are established and maintained based on an initial mixture ratio in the combined feed. In an embodiment the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are maintained such a CaO SiO VOchemical composition is comprised of greater than about 40 wt. CaO and has a VO SiOratio of greater than about 1.5.

Within this disclosure the combined chemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of all oxides which originate in the ash forming species and the CaO in the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the combined chemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the all oxides of the ash forming species and the CaO in the quantity of CaO are combined. Correspondingly a combined chemical composition having a particular weight percent of SiO VO and CaO is referenced to the 100 wt. of the total combined chemical composition.

Similarly within this disclosure the CaO SiO VOchemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of SiO VO and CaO which originates in the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the CaO SiO VOchemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the SiO VO and CaO of the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO are combined. Correspondingly a combined CaO SiO VOchemical composition having a particular weight percent CaO is referenced to the 100 wt. of the combined CaO SiO VOchemical composition.

As stated the specified VO SiOratio acts to allow for increased dissolution of VOin the resulting slag and the presence of CaO acts to mitigate the presence of higher melting constituents. The SiOcontent of the high vanadium content feedstock is limited to less than about 25 wt. in order to generate a liquid slag having reduced SiO typically less than 15 wt. . This is illustrated at . is a ternary phase diagram of the CaO SiO VOsystem and as VOcontent increases melting temperatures generally decrease as CaO increases. The limitations of this disclosure generate a slag operating within the region of these lower melting compounds by limiting SiOand increasing CaO so that an increased quantity of VOin the feedstock can be tolerated. This is illustrated at illustrating an area of liquid slag in the CaO SiO VOsystem bounded by L L and L. At Lrepresents a CaO content of about 60 wt. in the liquid slag Lrepresents a CaO content of about 20 wt. in the liquefied slag and Lrepresents a VO SiOratio of approximately 1.5 in the combined CaO SiO VOchemical composition. Operation of the gasifier within the limitations of this disclosure is intended to generate a liquid slag generally between Land L and below L. As indicated the decreased SiOcontent of the slag and the addition of CaO to achieve the defined parameters allows generation of a slag where the limited SiOcontent limits SiOinteractions with the basic oxide CaO such that remaining CaO may increase dissolution of VOthrough the generation of lower melting compounds. Operation within the limitations of this disclosure provides the advantage of allowing for increased petcoke concentrations in the carbon feedstock with reduced gasifier temperatures while continuing to generate a slag of sufficiently low viscosity. In an embodiment the carbon feedstock is at least 70 petcoke on an ash basis and may be substantially 100 petcoke.

It is understood that in the ternary diagrams such as the ratios and weight percentages in the combined and CaO SiO VOchemical compositions of the carbon feedstock and the CaO additive entering the gasifier do not directly translate to exactly equivalent quantities in the CaO SiO VOsystem generated by the slag due to the reduction of VOto VOunder the reducing conditions of the gasifier as well as other chemical alterations. The ternary diagrams such as are present for illustrative purposes only and while representative they do not define the limitations of this disclosure. Within this disclosure intended limitations are those described by the weight percents and ratios established in given combined compositions. Similarly the ternary diagrams of are likewise illustrative in nature and not intended to define the limitations of this disclosure.

Further within this disclosure when the CaO additive is comprised of a quantity of CaO the quantity of CaO consists of any CaO present in the CaO additive as well as any CaO which forms by the dissociation in the gasifier environment of any compounds present in the CaO additive. For example dolomite CaMg CO calcium carbonate CaCO calcium hydroxide Ca OH and typical steelmaking slags are comprised of a quantity of CaO within this disclosure.

Additionally within this disclosure slagging gasifier means a gasifying vessel into which coal petcoke or other carbonaceous fuel is introduced and gasified under high pressure and temperature by means of oxygen and water introduced into the gasifying vessel through tuyeres and where residual ash collects as molten slag in a hearth of the gasifying vessel where the molten slag is at least periodically discharged through a slag tap outlet. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 340 397 to Schulz U.S. Pat. No. 4 730 444 to Reichl U.S. Pat. No. 4 195 978 to Anderson U.S. Pat. No. 5 630 853 to Eales U.S. Pat. No. 5 136 808 to Calderon and U.S. Pat. No. 7 883 556 to Wintrell among others.

Additionally within this disclosure carbon feedstock means a material comprised of carbon and ash forming species where the ash forming species are inorganic and organometallic non combustible material comprised of at least SiOand VO. For example petcoke or a mixture of petcoke and coal. Within this disclosure when the ash forming species of the carbon feedstock are specified in terms of oxides such as SiO VO and CaO among others this refers to quantities as listed in the bulk chemical composition of the carbon feedstock ash where the ash forming species are indicated as oxides of the relevant metal in a resulting ash and where the quantity of an individual ash forming species is expressed as a weight percent of all ash forming species in the carbon feedstock. As is understood when the carbon feedstock is a mixture of materials the ash forming species limitations of this disclosure apply to the resulting mixture.

Additionally within this disclosure petcoke means a solid comprised of carbon and ash forming species where the ash forming species are comprised of less than about 30 wt. SiOand greater than about 20 wt. VO. Petcoke generally refers to a carbonaceous material derived from the thermal conversion and cracking of liquid hydrocarbons in petroleum refining processes and includes both the solid thermal decomposition product of high boiling hydrocarbon fractions obtained in petroleum processing and the solid thermal decomposition product of processing tar sands. Such carbonization products include for example green calcined needle and fluidized bed petroleum coke.

In an embodiment the ash forming species of the carbon feedstock are further comprised of AlO and the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are established such that a SiO AlO CaO chemical composition has a SiO AlOratio greater than about 1.3 and less than about 9 and where the SiO AlO CaO chemical composition is comprised of greater than about 20 wt. and less than about 50 wt. CaO. This is intended to result in the generation of a slag illustrated at where are ternary phase diagrams of the SiO AlO CaO system. As illustrated at at the higher CaO compositions of this disclosure reduced melting temperature compounds may be formed by providing an increased quantity of CaO when SiOand AlOare present within certain ratios as further indicated at . At in the SiO AlO CaO system Lrepresents a CaO content of about 50 wt. Lrepresents a SiO AlOratio of approximately 9 Lrepresents a SiO AlOratio of approximately 1.3 and Lrepresents a CaO content of about 20 wt. . In this disclosure when the feed injection rate and the additive injection rate are established to achieve specific weight percents and ratios in the SiO AlO CaO chemical composition the SiO AlO CaO chemical composition is intended to generate a liquid slag generally in the region between Land Land between Land L. In a further embodiment the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are established such a SiO VO AlO CaO chemical composition has a CaO SiO VO AlO CaO ratio greater than about 0.2 and less than about 0.5.

Within this disclosure the SiO AlO CaO chemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of SiO AlO and CaO which originates in the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the SiO AlO CaO chemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the SiO AlO and CaO of the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO are combined. Similarly within this disclosure the SiO VO AlO CaO chemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of SiO VO AlO and CaO which originates in the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the SiO VO AlO CaO chemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the SiO VO AlO and CaO of the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO are combined.

In an additional embodiment the ash forming species is further comprised of FeO and the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are established such that a FeO CaO VOchemical composition of the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO is comprised of less than about 20 wt. FeO and such that the combined FeO CaO VOchemical composition has a CaO VOratio greater than about 0.25 and less than about 1.5. This is intended to result in the generation of a slag illustrated at where are ternary phase diagrams of the FeO CaO VOsystem. As illustrated at at the higher CaO compositions of this disclosure reduced melting temperature compounds may be formed by limiting the FeO composition and the CaO VOratios as further indicated at . At in the FeO CaO VOsystem Lrepresents a FeO content of about 20 wt. Lrepresents a CaO VOratio of approximately 1.5 and Lrepresents a CaO VOratio of approximately 0.25. In this disclosure when the feed injection rate and the additive injection rate are established to achieve specific weight percents and ratios in the FeO CaO VOchemical composition the FeO CaO VOchemical composition is intended to generate a liquid slag generally in the region bounded by L L and L.

Within this disclosure the FeO CaO VOchemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of FeO VO and CaO which originates in the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the combined FeO CaO VOchemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the FeO. VO and CaO of the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO are combined. Correspondingly a combined FeO CaO VOchemical composition having a particular weight percent FeO is referenced to the 100 wt. of the combined FeO CaO VOchemical composition.

In an embodiment the CaO additive is further comprised of MgO and the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are established such that the combined chemical composition is further comprised of greater than about 5 wt. MgO. In this embodiment a refractory lining the reaction zone is comprised of MgO based refractory brick. Here MgO based refractory brick means a refractory brick comprised of at least 60 wt. magnesia. This is advantageous when the oxide specifications of this disclosure may generate undesired products when in contact with a specific type of refractory lining. For example in some cases chromium oxides present in the refractory may interact with a slag comprised of an increased CaO content to form Cr. See e.g. Lee et al. Minimization of Hexavalent Chromium in Magnesite Chrome Refractory 28B 1997 .

In an embodiment the disclosure generates a slag having a CaO SiO VOchemical composition with a CaO content of from about 20 wt. to about 60 wt. and having a VO SiOratio of approximately 1.5 in the combined CaO SiO VOchemical composition. The slag composition may be determined by various means known in the art such as XRF spectrometry.

In a further embodiment the ash forming species are comprised of AlO and the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are established to form a slag having a SiO AlO CaO chemical composition comprised of greater than about 20 wt. and less than about 50 wt. CaO and a SiO AlOratio greater than about 1.3 and less than about 9. In another embodiment the ash forming species is comprised of FeO and the feedstock injection rate and the additive injection rate are established to form a slag having a FeO CaO VOchemical composition comprised of less than about 20 wt. FeO and a CaO VOratio greater than about 0.25 and less than about 1.5. Here the CaO SiO VOchemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of SiO VO and CaO which originates in the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the CaO SiO VOchemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the SiO VO and CaO of the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO are combined. Similarly the FeO CaO VOchemical composition means a chemical composition consisting of FeO CaO and VOwhich originates in the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO such that 100 wt. of the FeO CaO VOchemical composition is the weight percent achieved when the FeO CaO and VOof the ash forming species and the quantity of CaO are combined.

The means for introducing the carbon feedstock and the CaO additive may be any means sufficient to transport fuel to slagging gasifier for subsequent pyrolysis to the carbon feedstock such as high pressure injectors of fine particulate or any other known system for the delivery of bulk material. The means for introduction of the gasifying medium comprised of water and oxygen may similarly be any mechanism or combinations sufficient for the delivery of water steam oxygen air or other gas comprised of oxygen where the mechanism or combination exhibits sufficient control to establish and maintain partial oxidation in the reaction zone. For example the means for introduction of the gasifying medium may be one or more fluid conduits having a flow throttling valve where the flow throttling valve may be under automatic or manual control. The means for maintaining a temperature and a pressure in the reaction zone sufficient to generate the partial oxidation of the carbon feedstock may be the heat provided by the exothermal chemical reactions occurring inside the gasifier in an autothermal process or may be an external powered source such as a heater or igniter in an allothermal process. Those skilled in the art understand that a gasification process in a reaction zone as described within this disclosure may utilize specific components over a wide variety of possible means.

The method thus discloses methods of operating a slagging gasifier using a carbon feedstock having a relatively high VOto SiOratio such as petcoke. The disclosure utilizes a CaO additive to generate a combined chemical composition in the feed mixture comprised of less than about 25 wt. SiO greater than about 20 wt. VO and greater than about 20 wt. CaO. The method takes advantage of a novel recognition that increased levels of SiOtend to decrease dissolution of the VOwhich forms under the reducing conditions of the gasifier and utilizes the CaO additive to establish a chemical phase equilibria comprised of lower melting compounds or slag. Increasing the presence of lower melting constituents in the slag while decreasing the presence of higher melting constituents has the advantage of allowing gasifier operations at a reduced temperature while concurrently providing for satisfactory drainage of slag generated by relatively high VOfeedstock. The method further provides for the control of the carbon feedstock and CaO additive combined composition based on the presence of other common ash components such as AlOand FeO and provides for combined chemical compositions comprised of greater than about 5 wt. MgO for use with refractory linings comprised of MgO based refractory brick when for example increased refractory wear due to the addition of CaO may be a concern.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

