---

title: User and device movement based display compensation
abstract: A direction and distance of movement of a display device as well as of a user of the display device are determined. Based on these determined directions and distances of movement, compensation to apply to content displayed on the display device to compensate for movement of the user with respect to the device is determined and applied to the content. A portion of the display device at which the user is looking can also be detected. The compensation is applied to the content only if applying the compensation would not result in the portion being positioned beyond the display device. If applying the compensation would result in the portion being positioned beyond the display device then appropriate corrective action is taken, such as not applying the compensation to the content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417666&OS=09417666&RS=09417666
owner: Microsoft Technology Licesning, LLC
number: 09417666
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
Portable computing devices such as tablet computers and wireless phones have become commonplace. These portable computing devices have many advantages including being able to be easily used while the user is moving. Despite their advantages portable computing devices are not without their problems. One such problem is that the computing device can oftentimes be moving relative to the user while the user is trying to view a display of the device. This movement can make it difficult for the user to follow the content displayed by the device which can result in frustrating user experiences.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one or more aspects a direction of movement and a distance of movement of a display device are determined and a direction of movement and a distance of movement of a user of the display device are determined. Compensation to apply to content displayed on the display device to compensate for movement of the user with respect to the display device is also determined and applied to the content displayed on the display device. The compensation is based on the direction of movement of the display device the distance of movement of the display device the direction of movement of the user and the distance of movement of the user.

In accordance with one or more aspects compensation to apply to content displayed on a display device to compensate for movement of a user with respect to the display device is determined. The compensation is based on a direction of movement of the display device a distance of movement of the display device a direction of movement of the user and a distance of movement of the user. A portion of the display device at which the user is looking is also detected. The compensation is applied to the content displayed on the display device if the portion of the display device at which the user is looking is a portion for which applying the compensation would not result in the content in the portion of the display device being positioned beyond the display device. However a corrective action is taken if the portion of the display at which the user is looking is a portion for which applying the compensation would result in the content in the portion of the display device being positioned beyond the display device.

User and device movement based display compensation is discussed herein. A direction and distance of movement of a display device as well as of a user of the display device are determined. Based on these determined directions and distances of movement compensation to apply to content displayed on the display device to compensate for movement of the user with respect to the device is determined and applied to the content. This compensation can include shifting the content e.g. along an x and or y dimension of a plane of the display device and or zooming the content in or out. A portion of the display device at which the user is looking can also be detected. The compensation is applied to the content only if applying the compensation would not result in the portion being positioned beyond the display device. If applying the compensation would result in the portion being positioned beyond the display device then appropriate corrective action is taken such as not applying the compensation to the content.

Computing device is illustrated as including an input output module that includes a movement compensation system . Input output module is representative of functionality relating to processing of inputs and rendering outputs of computing device . A variety of different inputs may be processed by input output module such as inputs relating to functions that correspond to keys of an input device coupled to computing device or keys of a virtual keyboard displayed by a display device included as part of computing device inputs that are gestures recognized through touchscreen functionality of display device and that cause operations to be performed that correspond to the gestures and so forth. As user inputs can be received via display device display device can also be referred to as an interactive display device. Movement compensation system changes the display of content on display device compensating for user movement with respect to display device as discussed in more detail below.

Computing device is illustrated as including a motion compensation system and a display device . Display device can be an interactive display device analogous to display device of . Movement compensation system changes the display of content on display device to compensate for user movement particularly the user s head with respect to display device . Movement compensation system can be for example a movement compensation system of .

Movement compensation system includes a device movement determination module a user movement determination module a display compensation module and an eye tracking module . Although particular functionality is discussed herein with reference to particular modules it should be noted that the functionality of individual modules discussed herein can be separated into multiple modules and or at least some functionality of multiple modules discussed herein can be combined into a single module.

Device movement determination module determines the movement of display device . Module can determine the movement of display device at regular or irregular intervals such as every 10 milliseconds ms at a same frequency as content displayed on display device is updated e.g. at a refresh rate used by display device in response to another event or input from another component or module and so forth. Module can include and or receive input from one or more other components or modules to determine the movement of display device . These other components or modules can be included as part of display device and or as part of system e.g. housed in a same device as houses display device or alternatively elsewhere e.g. external to device and system .

In one or more embodiments device movement determination module receives input from one or more accelerometer components also referred to as simply accelerometers . An accelerometer provides an indication of a direction of movement e.g. in two or three dimensions and a distance or amount of movement. The direction can be specified in different manners such as an angle e.g. a particular number of degrees from an origin a compass direction and so forth. The distance can also be specified in different manners such as in micrometers millimeters centimeters pixels etc. Alternatively other components can provide inputs to module to determine the movement of display device . For example module can receive direction and or distance of movement data from various MEMS Microelectromechanical Systems or Microelectronicmechanical systems sensors such as a compass a gyroscope a barometric altimeter and so forth. By way of another example module can receive direction and or distance of movement data from a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS module that implements GNSS functionality using a variety of different technologies such as the Global Positioning System GPS the Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS the BeiDou or Compass navigation system the Galileo positioning system combinations thereof and so forth.

Alternatively device movement determination module can receive data from one or more components and analyze the received data to determine the direction and or distance of movement of display device . For example module can receive data that is captured images from a camera or other image capture device. Module can determine based on the captured images e.g. by tracking object locations in the images by tracking locations of display device in images captured from a camera external to display device etc. a direction and or distance of movement of display device . Alternatively the input received by module can alternatively be other input rather than captured images such as portions of captured images data identifying objects in captured images and so forth.

In one or more embodiments device movement determination module provides a device movement vector also referred to as vector u that indicates to display compensation module the distance and direction of movement of display device . The device movement vector can have any number of dimensions such as two dimensions e.g. in the x and y dimensions of a plane of display device three dimensions e.g. in the x and y dimensions of a plane of display device and in a z dimension approximately perpendicular to the plane that includes the x and y dimensions and so forth. A plane of display device refers to a plane approximately parallel to the display surface of display device e.g. the screen on which content is displayed . Module can provide the device movement vector to display compensation module in various manners such as providing the device movement vector as a parameter of a procedure function application programming interface API etc. by storing the device movement vector in a location accessible to display compensation module and so forth.

User movement determination module determines the movement of a user of display device . Module can determine the movement of a user of display device at regular or irregular intervals such as every 10 ms at a same frequency as content displayed on display device is updated e.g. at a refresh rate used by display device in response to another event or input from another component or module and so forth. Module typically determines the movement of a user of display device at the same interval as device movement determination module determines the movement of display device although can alternatively determine the movement of the user at different intervals. Module can include and or receive input from one or more other components or modules to determine the movement of a user of display device . These other components or modules can be included as part of display device and or as part of system or alternatively elsewhere e.g. external to device and system . Module determines a direction of movement e.g. in two or three dimensions and a distance or amount of movement e.g. in micrometers millimeters centimeters pixels etc. based on the input it receives.

In one or more embodiments user movement determination module receives input from a camera or other image capture device. The input received by module is typically captured images but can alternatively be other input e.g. portions of captured images data identifying objects in captured images and so forth . Module analyzes the received input and tracks a location of a face of a user of display device . By tracking the location of the face of a user of display device the direction and distance that the user has moved can be readily determined. Any of a variety of public and or proprietary techniques can be used to detect the face of the user in different captured images. Based on the different locations of the detected face of the user in the different captured images the direction of movement and distance of movement of the detected face can be readily determined. The direction can be specified in different manners such as an angle e.g. a particular number of degrees from an origin a compass direction and so forth. The distance can also be specified in different manners such as in micrometers millimeters centimeters etc.

The direction of movement can be readily determined based on an origin or other reference point e.g. relative to a field of view of the camera or other image capture device . The distance of movement can be readily determined given the size of the user s face or a particular object. User movement determination module can be configured with the size of the user s face or other object access another component or module that is configured with the size of the user s face or other object receive a user input indicating the size of the user s face or other object and so forth. For example user movement determination module can be configured with or have access to the sizes of known objects such as eyes or portions thereof e.g. pupil iris and can readily determine the distance of movement based on the movement of the face relative to the size of such known objects.

Tracking the location of the face of the user provides indications of two dimensional movement in the plane of display device e.g. the x and y dimensions . User movement determination module can also track the size of the face of the user allowing the distance the face of the user is away from the display device to be readily determined. The face of the user will be larger when the user is closer to display device than when the user is further away from display device . Given the change e.g. increase or decrease in size of the face of the user the amount closer to display device or further from display device that the user moved can be readily determined.

Alternatively user movement determination module can detect and track objects other than faces. For example module can detect and track glasses worn by a user a facial feature e.g. eyes or mouth of the user jewelry or clothing worn by the user and so forth. Additionally situations can arise in which faces of multiple users are detected. Module can resolve such situations in various manners such as by tracking one of the multiple faces tracking all of the multiple faces and combining e.g. averaging the direction and distance of movement determined for each face and so forth.

Alternatively other components can provide inputs to module to determine the movement of a user of display device . For example module can receive data indicating direction and distance of movement of the user from one or more accelerators that are worn by the user e.g. included in glasses or headphones worn by the user . By way of another example module can receive data indicating direction and distance of movement of the user from one or more other sensors of an immersive environment e.g. games museum exhibit walk throughs etc. that track gestures of the user movement of the user and so forth.

In one or more embodiments user movement determination module provides a user movement vector also referred to as vector v that indicates to display compensation module the distance and direction of movement of the user of display device . The user movement vector can have any number of dimensions such as two dimensions e.g. in the x and y dimensions of a plane of display device three dimensions e.g. in the x and y dimensions of a plane of display device and in the z dimension approximately perpendicular to the plane that includes the x and y dimensions and so forth. The user movement vector typically includes but need not include the same number of dimensions as the device movement vector provided to display compensation module by device movement determination module . Module can provide the user movement vector to display compensation module in various manners such as providing the user movement vector as a parameter of a procedure function API etc. by storing the device movement vector in a location accessible to display compensation module and so forth.

Display compensation module receives an indication of the direction and distance of device movement typically received as the device movement vector from device movement determination module . Module also receives an indication of the direction and distance of user movement typically received as the user movement vector from user movement determination module . Based on these received indications display compensation module determines an amount of compensation to apply to the content displayed on display device to compensate for user movement with respect to display device . This compensation can include shifting the content a particular direction and amount in the plane of display device and or zooming in or out the content also referred to as shifting the content a particular amount in a direction perpendicular to the plane of display device .

In one or more embodiments display compensation module generates a relative movement vector c by subtracting the user movement vector from the device movement vector e.g. c u v . The relative movement vector identifies the movement of the device relative to the user. With two dimensions e.g. along the x and y axis of the plane of display device the relative movement vector c can be calculated as c u v i u v j where u v refers to the magnitude in one dimension e.g. along the x axis of the user movement vector subtracted from the device movement vector i refers to a unit vector in that one dimension e.g. along the x axis u v refers to the magnitude in another dimension e.g. along the y axis of the user movement vector subtracted from the device movement vector and j refers to a unit vector in that other dimension e.g. along the y axis .

Given the relative movement vector c the compensation to apply to the content displayed by display device can be readily determined by shifting or moving the content in the opposite direction and distance indicated by the relative movement vector c. For example the relative movement vector c can include a component cindicating the direction and distance of movement of the device relative to the user along one dimension e.g. along the x axis and a component cindicating the direction and distance of movement of the device relative to the user along the other dimension e.g. along the y axis . The compensation to apply to the content displayed by display device is then cand c.

For zooming in or out content display compensation module can be configured with or obtain from another component or module an indication of an amount to zoom in or out based on the amount closer to display device or further from the display device the user has moved. For example module can be configured with or obtain a table or formula indicating that if the user has moved a particular amount e.g. a particular number of centimeters closer to display device that the content is to be zoomed out a particular amount e.g. decreased in size by 10 and that if the user has moved another particular amount further from display device that the content is to be zoomed in a particular amount e.g. increased in size by 25 . The amount to zoom in or out can be identified in different manners such as increase or decrease the font size a particular percentage e.g. 10 increase or decrease the font size by a particular number e.g. 2 such as increasing the font size from 10 point to 12 point change the style or type and so forth. Scaling up or down factors can also be applied to the content on the display as whole as well to keep the zooming effect consistent across various types of content e.g. images video textual etc. .

In the example of two dimensions x and y are discussed. However it should be noted that the user movement vector the device movement vector and the relative movement vector can include any number of elements as discussed above.

Returning to movement compensation system optionally includes an eye tracking module . Eye tracking module identifies the portion of display device at which a user of display device is looking. Module can determine the portion of display device at which a user is looking at regular or irregular intervals such as every 10 ms at a same frequency as content displayed on display device is updated e.g. at a refresh rate used by display device in response to another event or input from another component or module and so forth. Module typically determines the portion of display device at which a user is looking at the same interval as device movement determination module determines the movement of display device and or user movement determination module determines the movement of the user of display device although can alternatively determine the portion of display device at which a user is looking at different intervals. Eye tracking module can include and or receive input from one or more other components or modules to determine the portion of display device at which a user is looking. These other components or modules can be included as part of display device and or as part of system or alternatively elsewhere e.g. external to device and system .

In one or more embodiments user eye tracking module receives input from a camera or other image capture device. The input received by module is typically captured images but can alternatively be other input e.g. portions of captured images data identifying objects e.g. eyes in captured images and so forth . Module analyzes the received input and determines the portion of display device at which the user is looking based on the eyes of the user. Any of a variety of public and or proprietary techniques can be used to determine the portion of display device at which the user is looking.

In one or more embodiments eye tracking module provides to display compensation module an indication of the portion of display device at which the user is looking. Module can provide the indication to display compensation module in various manners such as providing the indication as a parameter of a procedure function API etc. by storing the indication in a location accessible to display compensation module and so forth.

If the compensation as determined based on the relative movement vector c as discussed above would result in the content at the portion of display device at which the user is looking being positioned external to or beyond the display device then appropriate corrective action is taken by display compensation module . For example assume the user is looking at a portion of display device that is along the left edge e.g. within 1 centimeter of the left edge of display device and that the compensation indicates that the content is to be shifted 2 centimeters to the left. If the content were shifted to the left 2 centimeters then the content in the portion of the display at which the user is looking would be shifted off the display e.g. by approximately 1 centimeter .

In one or more embodiments the appropriate corrective action is to not shift the content. Thus rather than shifting the content to compensate for movement of the device and user module does not shift the content if the shifting would result in the content at the portion of display device at which the user is looking being positioned external to or beyond display device . Alternatively other corrective actions can be taken. For example the appropriate corrective action can be to shift the content by only part e.g. one third or one half of the compensation indicated by the relative movement vector c or to shift the content in only one dimension e.g. shift the content in the x dimension but not the y dimension indicated by the relative movement vector c.

The portion can be determined in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments the portion is determined by the display compensation module or another component or module empirically based on the amount of shifting of content that is typically e.g. at least a threshold amount of time performed. For example if the amount of shift is typically no more than 2 centimeters in any direction then the portion can be a band 2 centimeters wide around the perimeter of display device . In other embodiments the display compensation module can be configured with an indication of portion based on the desires of a designer or distributor of display device .

In other embodiments the portion is determined by the display compensation module or another component or module based on the compensation determined by the display compensation module. The portion is then a band around the perimeter of display device that is an amount of compensation determined based on the relative movement vector c discussed above. For example if based on the relative movement vector c the content is to be shifted 2 centimeters to the left and 1 centimeter down in a plane approximately parallel to the plane of the device then the portion is a band 2 centimeters wide along the left hand side of display device and a band 1 centimeter wide along the bottom of display device . The band can optionally continue around the remainder of the perimeter of display device e.g. along the right hand side and the top of display device .

In process a direction and distance of movement of a display device is determined act . This direction and distance of movement can be determined in different manners such as using one or more accelerometers as discussed above.

A direction and distance of movement of a user of the display device is also determined act . This direction and distance of movement can be determined in different manners such as using face detection and tracking as discussed above.

Compensation to apply to content displayed on the display device to compensate for movement of the user with respect to the display device is determined act . This compensation can be determined in different manners such as being values in one or more dimensions that are opposite of the values of elements of a relative movement vector as discussed above.

A portion of the display device at which the user is looking is also detected act . This portion can be determined in different manners such as by tracking the eyes of the user as discussed above.

Process then proceeds based on whether applying the compensation would result in the portion at which the user is looking being positioned beyond the display device act . If applying the compensation would not result in the portion at which the user is looking being positioned beyond the display device then the compensation is applied to the content act . The compensation can be applied to the content in different manners such as shifting and or zooming the content as discussed above. However if applying the compensation would result in the portion at which the user is looking being positioned beyond the display device then corrective action is taken act . Various different corrective actions can be taken as discussed above such as not applying the compensation to the content or applying only part of the compensation to the content.

In one or more embodiments acts and are optional and need not be performed. In such embodiments the compensation determined in act is applied to content without regard for the portion of the display device at which the user is looking.

Various actions performed by various modules are discussed herein. A particular module discussed herein as performing an action includes that particular module itself performing the action or alternatively that particular module invoking or otherwise accessing another component or module that performs the action or performs the action in conjunction with that particular module . Thus a particular module performing an action includes that particular module itself performing the action and or another module invoked or otherwise accessed by that particular module performing the action.

The example computing device as illustrated includes a processing system one or more computer readable media and one or more I O interfaces that are communicatively coupled one to another. Although not shown the computing device may further include a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components one to another. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures. A variety of other examples are also contemplated such as control and data lines.

The processing system is representative of functionality to perform one or more operations using hardware. Accordingly the processing system is illustrated as including hardware elements that may be configured as processors functional blocks and so forth. This may include implementation in hardware as an application specific integrated circuit or other logic device formed using one or more semiconductors. The hardware elements are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions.

The computer readable storage media is illustrated as including memory storage . The memory storage represents memory storage capacity associated with one or more computer readable media. The memory storage component may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . The memory storage component may include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive and so on as well as removable media e.g. Flash memory a removable hard drive an optical disc and so forth . The computer readable media may be configured in a variety of other ways as further described below.

Input output interface s are representative of functionality to allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices using various input output devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone to receive voice or other audible inputs a scanner touch functionality e.g. capacitive or other sensors that are configured to detect physical touch a camera e.g. which may employ visible or non visible wavelengths such as infrared frequencies to recognize movement as gestures that do not involve touch and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card tactile response device and so forth. Thus the computing device may be configured in a variety of ways to support user interaction.

Movement compensation system is representative of a movement compensation system that leverages the various techniques discussed herein to compensate for user movement with respect to a display device. Movement compensation system can be for example a movement compensation system of or a movement compensation system of .

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software hardware elements or program modules. Generally such modules include routines programs objects elements components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The terms module functionality and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The features of the techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

An implementation of the described modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. The computer readable media may include a variety of media that may be accessed by the computing device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer readable storage media and computer readable signal media. 

 Computer readable storage media may refer to media and or devices that enable persistent and or storage of information that is tangible in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. Thus computer readable storage media refers to non signal bearing media. The computer readable storage media includes hardware such as volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media and or storage devices implemented in a method or technology suitable for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules logic elements circuits or other data. Examples of computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage hard disks magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other storage device tangible media or article of manufacture suitable to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.

 Computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that is configured to transmit instructions to the hardware of the computing device such as via a network. Signal media typically may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves data signals or other transport mechanism. Signal media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

As previously described hardware elements and computer readable media are representative of modules programmable device logic and or fixed device logic implemented in a hardware form that may be employed in some embodiments to implement at least some aspects of the techniques described herein such as to perform one or more instructions. Hardware may include components of an integrated circuit or on chip system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD and other implementations in silicon or other hardware. In this context hardware may operate as a processing device that performs program tasks defined by instructions and or logic embodied by the hardware as well as a hardware utilized to store instructions for execution e.g. the computer readable storage media described previously.

Combinations of the foregoing may also be employed to implement various techniques described herein. Accordingly software hardware or executable modules may be implemented as one or more instructions and or logic embodied on some form of computer readable storage media and or by one or more hardware elements . The computing device may be configured to implement particular instructions and or functions corresponding to the software and or hardware modules. Accordingly implementation of a module that is executable by the computing device as software may be achieved at least partially in hardware e.g. through use of computer readable storage media and or hardware elements of the processing system . The instructions and or functions may be executable operable by one or more articles of manufacture for example one or more computing devices and or processing systems to implement techniques modules and examples described herein.

Furthermore although illustrated as a single computing device computing device can be coupled to one or more additional computing devices via the Internet or other data communication network. These additional computing devices can be for example a cloud of one or more server computers. Various aspects of the movement compensation system and or other modules of computing device can be provided by and or processing performed on one or more servers or other computing devices that are remote from computing device .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

