---

title: Apparatus for a compact adjustable passive compliant mechanism
abstract: Various technologies described herein pertain to an adjustable compliance apparatus. The adjustable compliance apparatus includes a shaft, a sleeve element, and a torsion spring. The sleeve element includes a bore there through, where the shaft is positioned through the bore of the sleeve element. Further, the torsion spring includes a plurality of coils, where the shaft is positioned through the plurality of coils. Moreover, the sleeve element is slidable in an axial direction along the shaft between the torsion spring and the shaft. Accordingly, compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus is adjustable based on a number of the plurality of coils in contact with the sleeve element as positioned along the shaft within the torsion spring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08979080&OS=08979080&RS=08979080
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08979080
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Apparatuses with adjustable compliance have recently become more prevalent. Such apparatuses can minimize large forces due to shocks enable safe interactions with a user and store and release energy in passive elastic elements while having variable stiffness. These apparatuses can be employed in various applications where an elastic attribute is desirably variable.

An example of an application in which an apparatus with adjustable compliance can be employed is a robotic application where such apparatus can enhance safe human robot interaction. Another example application that can use an apparatus with adjustable compliance is a robot hand. Following this example it can be desirable to have the robot hand be more compliant e.g. more give softer less stiff etc. when initially grabbing an object and then transition to becoming less compliant e.g. less give firmer more stiff etc. to provide a firm grasp of the object. Yet it is also to be appreciated that apparatuses with adjustable compliance are being utilized in various other types of applications.

Conventional apparatuses with adjustable compliance are oftentimes complex and costly. Other common apparatuses with adjustable compliance such as for instance conventional apparatuses that have a tension or compression spring with an adjustable number of active coils are too large and oftentimes have improper geometry for various applications e.g. due to being loaded axially in tension or compression .

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to an adjustable compliance apparatus. The adjustable compliance apparatus includes a shaft a sleeve element and a torsion spring. The sleeve element includes a bore there through where the shaft is positioned through the bore of the sleeve element. Further the torsion spring includes a plurality of coils where the shaft is positioned through the plurality of coils. Moreover the sleeve element is slidable in an axial direction along the shaft between the torsion spring and the shaft. Accordingly compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus is adjustable based on a number of the plurality of coils in contact with the sleeve element as positioned along the shaft within the torsion spring.

In accordance with various embodiments the adjustable compliance apparatus can include a pulley coupled to an end of the shaft. Moreover angular correspondence can be maintained between the shaft and the sleeve element. Further the sleeve element can include external threading. For instance the pulley can be rotated which can cause the shaft to rotate the sleeve element. Rotation of the sleeve element can cause the external threading of the sleeve element to either thread into the torsion spring or unthread from the torsion spring while the sleeve element slides in an axial direction along the shaft between the torsion spring and the shaft thus the number of coils of the torsion spring in contact with the sleeve element can be adjusted which can cause the compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus to be adjusted.

In one or more embodiments set forth herein a system that controls compliance can include the adjustable compliance apparatus. Such system can include a sensor a motor a control unit and a belt. For instance the control unit can be in communication with the sensor and the motor. Moreover the belt can be attached to the motor and a pulley of the adjustable compliance apparatus. Accordingly the sensor can output a signal to the control unit responsive to sensing a condition. The control unit can output a control signal to the motor responsive to receiving the signal from the sensor. Further the motor can be actuated to move the belt responsive to receiving the control signal from the control unit which can cause the belt to rotate the pulley the pulley to rotate the shaft the shaft to rotate the sleeve element and the sleeve element to either thread into the torsion spring or unthread from the torsion spring while the sleeve element translates in an axial direction along the shaft between one or more of the plurality of coils of the torsion spring and the shaft.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to adjusting compliance of an apparatus having controllable compliance are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

As set forth herein an adjustable compliance apparatus is provided. The adjustable compliance apparatus can include a shaft a sleeve element and a torsion spring. The sleeve element is slidable along the shaft in an axial direction between the torsion spring and the shaft. Accordingly a number of active coils of the torsion spring can be controlled based upon a position of the sleeve element relative to the torsion spring and shaft. The adjustable compliance apparatus described herein can be more compact and less complex than conventional apparatuses that provide for adjustable compliance. For instance as compared to some conventional apparatuses that include a tension or compression spring with an adjustable number of active coils the adjustable compliance apparatus set forth herein that includes a torsion spring can be more compact e.g. in the spring direction since the torsion spring is not loaded axially while providing a geometry that can be used in different applications.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a front view of an exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus . The adjustable compliance apparatus is a passive compliant mechanism that includes an elastic element e.g. a spring that can store energy. The adjustable compliance apparatus has adjustable compliance which can also be referred to as adjustable stiffness. The compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus can be controlled by modifying an effective physical structure of the spring to achieve variations in stiffness.

More particularly the adjustable compliance apparatus includes a shaft a sleeve element and a torsion spring . The torsion spring provides resistance to a torque or twisting action. The torsion spring includes a plurality of coils. The torsion spring has a shape of a helix. In the depicted example of the torsion spring is shown to have four coils however it is to be appreciated that the torsion spring can include substantially any number of coils greater or less than four. As illustrated in portions of the coils of the torsion spring are cut away to expose the shaft and outlines of the cut away portions of the coils are represented by dotted lines. In a free state the coils of the torsion spring can be either touching or within close proximity of each other.

The torsion spring also includes two legs e.g. ends a leg and a leg collectively referred to as legs . The torque or twisting action can be applied to the legs . The legs can be hook shaped yet it is to be appreciated that substantially any design of the legs of the torsion spring is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Sideways forces applied to the legs can cause twisting about an axis of the torsion spring thereby causing active coils to twist tighter. Moreover the torsion spring is designed to resist twist or rotation forces. For instance when the legs are rotated around the axis of the torsion spring the torsion spring tries to push back to a free state.

Further the torsion spring can be formed from substantially any type of wire or rod. According to an example the torsion spring can be formed from round wire. By way of another example the torsion spring can be formed from rectangular wire. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples.

The sleeve element of the adjustable compliance apparatus includes a bore there through. Moreover the shaft is positioned through the bore of the sleeve element . The shaft is also positioned through the plurality of coils of the torsion spring .

The sleeve element is slidable in an axial direction along the shaft between the torsion spring and the shaft . Thus the sleeve element can slide along the shaft into the torsion spring or out from the torsion spring . Further compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus is adjustable based on a number of the plurality of the coils in contact with the sleeve element as positioned along the shaft within the torsion spring . Compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus and the number of the plurality of the coils in contact with the sleeve element are inversely proportional. Accordingly the number of coils from the plurality coils of the torsion spring that are in contact with the sleeve element can be adjusted by translation of the sleeve element along the shaft between the torsion spring and the shaft .

The sleeve element can be made of a material that enables the sleeve element to more readily slide across the shaft . For example the sleeve element can be made of polytetrafluoroethylene. However it is also contemplated that the sleeve element can be made of a different material with a low coefficient of friction against the shaft e.g. a material pairing for the sleeve element and the shaft can have low friction such as steel on brass etc. . Moreover the sleeve element has an external diameter that fits within an unloaded internal diameter e.g. free length of a coil of the torsion spring where the sleeve element contacts the coil and causes the coil to be inactive e.g. since the coil is unable to tighten due to the positioning of the sleeve element there within thus the sleeve element can be positioned within the unloaded internal diameter of an adjustable number of the coils of the torsion spring thereby contacting such coils and causing these coils to be inactive.

As shown in the sleeve element is positioned along the shaft to be in contact with a portion of an end coil of the torsion spring while not being in contact with a remainder of the coils of the torsion spring . Further the sleeve element can be slid along the shaft from the position depicted in into the torsion spring thereby causing the sleeve element to be in contact with more than one coil of the torsion spring . Moreover while not shown it is contemplated that the sleeve element can be slid to a position along the shaft so as to not contact any of the coils of the torsion spring .

A coil of the torsion spring that is not in contact with the sleeve element is an active coil and a coil of the torsion spring that is in contact with the sleeve element is an inactive coil. An active coil is a coil which is free to deflect under load and an inactive coil is a coil that does not deflect under load. For instance when the sleeve element is positioned between a particular coil of the torsion spring and the shaft the particular coil is an inactive coil. Further when the sleeve element is not positioned between the particular coil of the torsion spring and the shaft the particular coil is an active coil.

Moreover the adjustable compliance apparatus includes a pulley coupled with a first end of the shaft . The pulley can include a plurality of teeth such as a tooth along an exterior surface of the pulley . Rotation of the pulley can cause rotation of the shaft e.g. about an axis of the shaft .

Further the adjustable compliance apparatus includes a fixed element coupled with a second end of the shaft . The fixed element remains stationary while the shaft and the pulley are rotatable. Thus the shaft and the pulley can be rotated relative to the fixed element . The fixed element further includes a connection element . The leg of the torsion spring is coupled to the connection element . Accordingly a position of the leg remains stationary relative to the fixed element due to the coupling with the connection element .

In the example shown in the sleeve element comprises external threading that follows a pitch of the torsion spring . Thus from the position of the sleeve element relative to the shaft and the torsion spring depicted in the sleeve element can be threaded into the torsion spring to increase the number of coils of the torsion spring in contact with the sleeve element . However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the sleeve element having external threading.

As noted above rotation of the pulley can cause rotation of the shaft . Rotation of the shaft can cause rotation of the sleeve element e.g. torque can be transferred from the shaft to the sleeve element via external splines a key ridges teeth etc. on the shaft that mesh with internal splines a keyway grooves etc. in the bore through the sleeve element . Moreover the shaft and the sleeve element can rotate with equivalent angular frequencies e.g. angular correspondence between the shaft and the sleeve element can be maintained while the sleeve element slides in the axial direction along the shaft . Further the sleeve element and the shaft can rotate relative to the torsion spring to either thread the sleeve element into the torsion spring or unthread the sleeve element from the torsion spring . For instance the sleeve element can slide into the torsion spring to increase the number of the plurality of coils of the torsion spring in contact with the sleeve element when the pulley is rotated in a first direction and the sleeve element can slide out of the torsion spring to decrease the number of the plurality of coils of the torsion spring in contact with the sleeve element when the pulley is rotated in a second direction e.g. opposite the first direction . It is contemplated however that in other embodiments the sleeve element can translate along the shaft in the axial direction without rotation about the shaft .

Turning to illustrated is a perspective view of the exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus with the sleeve element at the position along the shaft depicted in . The adjustable compliance apparatus can further include a link and a link collectively referred to as links . The link can apply a force to the leg of the torsion spring and the link can apply a force to the leg of the torsion spring . When the adjustable compliance apparatus is loaded such that the links respectively apply forces at the legs the torsion spring can be twisted about its axis e.g. the axis of the shaft causing the active coils of the torsion spring to tighten. Accordingly compliance is increased stiffness is decreased as the number of active coils of the torsion spring is increased while compliance is decreases stiffness is increased as the number of active coils of the torsion spring is decreased.

As noted above the leg is coupled to the connection element of the fixed element . The fixed element remains stationary with respect to the link e.g. angular correspondence between the fixed element and the link is maintained while the link and the link are rotated relative to each other about the axis of the torsion spring . Moreover the link includes a connection element . The leg of the torsion spring is coupled to the connection element .

In accordance with an illustration the link and the link can be rotated relative to each other about the axis of the torsion spring . Following this illustration when loaded the link can cause a force to be applied to the leg of the torsion spring and the link can cause a force to be applied to the leg of the torsion spring which leads to the torsion spring being twisted about its axis such that active coils of the torsion spring tighten e.g. as compared to a free state of the torsion spring when not loaded .

Now referring to illustrated is another front view of the exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus . As depicted in the sleeve element has been slid along the shaft from the position shown in and threaded into the torsion spring . More particularly as illustrated in the sleeve element is in contact with the four coils of the torsion spring . Thus with the sleeve element in the position shown in relative to the torsion spring the four coils of the torsion spring are inactive. Accordingly compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus is lower and stiffness is higher when the sleeve element is in the position shown in as compared to in the position shown in . Moreover illustrates a perspective view of the exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus with the sleeve element at the position along the shaft depicted in .

Now referring to illustrated is a side view of the sleeve element of the adjustable compliance apparatus of . The sleeve element includes a bore there through. Further the sleeve element includes internal splines namely an internal spline an internal spline an internal spline and an internal spline collectively referred to as internal splines . The internal splines are through the bore .

Moreover the sleeve element includes external threading . The external threading can follow a pitch of the torsion spring of the adjustable compliance apparatus thus the external threading can have thread characteristics that are substantially similar as the torsion spring . The external threading of the sleeve element can improve coil following however it is contemplated that the sleeve element need not include the external threading in various embodiments. By way of another example the sleeve element can include the external threading while also including a tapered leading edge yet the claimed subject matter is not limited to such example.

Turning to illustrated is a side view of the shaft and the pulley of the adjustable compliance apparatus of . As described above the pulley includes a plurality of teeth such as the tooth along an exterior surface thereof. Moreover the shaft includes external splines namely an external spline an external spline an external spline and an external spline collectively referred to as external splines .

Referring to both the external splines of the shaft mate with the internal splines of the sleeve element . Rotation of the pulley causes rotation of the shaft . When the shaft is rotated the external splines of the shaft transfer torque to the internal splines of the sleeve element while maintaining an angular correspondence between the shaft and the sleeve element . While four external splines and four internal splines are shown it is contemplated that the shaft and sleeve element can include more or less than four splines respectively. Moreover it is to be appreciated that any type of spline is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims e.g. parallel key spline involute spline crowned spline serrations helical splines ball splines etc. .

Turning to illustrated are side views of another exemplary sleeve element shown in and shaft shown in that can be included in an adjustable compliance apparatus in various embodiments. The sleeve element as depicted in includes a bore there through. Moreover the sleeve element includes a keyway through the bore . Further the sleeve element includes external threading yet it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

With reference to illustrated are front views of another exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus . The adjustable compliance apparatus includes a shaft a sleeve element and a torsion spring . The torsion spring includes a plurality of coils an end and an end . Moreover the torsion spring can be substantially similar to the torsion spring . Although not shown it is to be appreciated that the adjustable compliance apparatus can further include a pulley e.g. the pulley a fixed element e.g. the fixed element links respectively coupled with the end and the end e.g. the links or a combination thereof.

The sleeve element can have a cylindrical exterior surface that lacks external threading. Accordingly the sleeve element can be slidable in an axial direction along the shaft between the torsion spring and the shaft . For instance shows the sleeve element being at a position along the shaft outside of the coils of the torsion spring . Further through simple translation the sleeve element can be slid into the torsion spring as shown in to be in contact with a subset of the coils of the torsion spring . The sleeve element can be further slid into the torsion spring as shown in to be in contact with all the coils of the torsion spring . Accordingly as the sleeve element is slid into the torsion spring compliance can be decreased. Moreover as the sleeve element is slid out from the torsion spring compliance can be increased.

According to an example the shaft need not include splines a key or the like. Following this example angular correspondence between the shaft and the sleeve element can vary. By way of another example the shaft can include splines a key or the like and the sleeve element can include corresponding splines a keyway etc. as set forth herein accordingly angular correspondence between the shaft and the sleeve element can be maintained.

With reference to illustrated is another front view of the exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus of . As depicted in the sleeve element is positioned along the shaft to be in contact with a subset of the coils of the torsion spring . Accordingly the sleeve element causes the coils of the torsion spring with which it is in contact to be inactive. Further a remainder of the coils of the torsion spring that are not in contact with the sleeve element are active coils. As shown in the coils of the torsion spring that are not in contact with the sleeve element e.g. the active coils can tighten when forces are applied at the legs of the torsion spring .

Turning to illustrated is another front view of the exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus of . depicts the sleeve element being positioned along the shaft to be in contact with a subset of the coils of the torsion spring e.g. similar to . Again coils of the torsion spring in contact with the sleeve element are inactive while coils of the torsion spring not in contact with the sleeve element are active. As illustrated in the coils of the torsion spring that are not in contact with the sleeve element e.g. the active coils can tighten when forces are applied at the legs of the torsion spring .

Now referring to illustrated is a front view of another exemplary adjustable compliance apparatus . The adjustable compliance apparatus includes a shaft a sleeve element and a torsion spring . The shaft can be substantially similar to the shaft the shaft and or the shaft . Moreover the torsion spring can be substantially similar to the torsion spring and or the torsion spring . For instance the torsion spring includes a leg and a leg .

Moreover the sleeve element includes a tapered leading edge . The tapered leading edge can provide a gradual transition from free to solid length geometries. The tapered leading edge can enable the sleeve element to be wedged in place when the active coils of the torsion spring are in at least a partially compressed state. Thus the tapered leading edge can expand a coil that has been tightened to allow the sleeve element to be slid into such coil e.g. other active coil s can further compress to account for the expansion of such coil links can be moved to allow for the expansion of the coil etc. . Further it is contemplated that a tapered leading edge similar to the tapered leading edge can be included in the sleeve element e.g. a sleeve element that includes external threading . Yet it is also to be appreciated that a sleeve element without a tapered leading edge e.g. the sleeve element the sleeve element etc. can also be wedged in place when the active coils of the torsion spring are in at least a partially compressed state e.g. due to being formed of a material with a low coefficient of friction such as polytetrafluoroethylene .

Turning to illustrated is a block diagram of an exemplary system that controls compliance of an adjustable compliance apparatus . The adjustable compliance apparatus included in the system comprises a shaft having a first end a pulley coupled with the first end of the shaft a sleeve element and a torsion spring . The sleeve element includes a bore there through. Moreover the shaft is positioned through the bore of the sleeve element . Further the torsion spring includes a plurality of coils with the shaft positioned through the plurality of coils of the torsion spring .

According to an example the sleeve element can include external threading that follows a pitch of the torsion spring . Moreover the sleeve element can have an external diameter that fits within an unloaded internal diameter of a coil from the plurality of coils of the torsion spring where the sleeve element can contact the coil and cause such coil to be inactive.

The sleeve element is slidable in an axial direction along the shaft while an angular correspondence is maintained between the shaft and the sleeve element . According to an example the shaft can include external splines and the sleeve element can include internal splines through the bore. Following this example the external splines of the shaft can mate with the internal splines of the sleeve element . By way of another example the shaft can include a key and the sleeve element can include a keyway through the bore. In accordance with this example the key of the shaft can mate with the keyway of the sleeve element . However it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples.

The system further includes a sensor a control unit a motor and a belt . The control unit is in communication with the sensor and the motor . Moreover the belt is attached to the motor and the pulley of the adjustable compliance apparatus e.g. the belt can mate with teeth along an exterior surface of the pulley .

The sensor can output a signal to the control unit responsive to sensing a condition. For instance the condition can correspond to a target compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus . By way of example the condition sensed by the sensor can be a sensed need for the target compliance however it is to be appreciated that the sensor can detect substantially any condition that can correspond to the target compliance which can be signaled to the control unit .

Moreover the control unit can output a control signal to the motor responsive to receiving the signal from the sensor . The motor can be actuated to move the belt responsive to receiving the control signal from the control unit . Movement of the belt by the motor can cause the belt to rotate the pulley e.g. the belt can drive the pulley the pulley to rotate the shaft the shaft to rotate the sleeve element and the sleeve element to either thread into the torsion spring or unthread from the torsion spring while the sleeve element translates in an axial direction along the shaft between one or more of the plurality of coils of the torsion spring and the shaft .

Accordingly compliance of the adjustable compliance apparatus can be adjustable based on a number of the plurality of coils of the torsion spring in contact with the sleeve element as positioned along the shaft within the torsion spring . For instance the sleeve element can be threaded into the torsion spring to increase the number of coils in contact with the sleeve element when the pulley is rotated in a first direction. Alternatively when the pulley is rotated in a second direction e.g. opposite the first direction the sleeve element can be unthreaded from the torsion spring to decrease the number of coils in contact with the sleeve element .

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

