---

title: Management of multimedia content
abstract: Disclosed are method and apparatus for managing multimedia content. The uniform resource locators of multimedia content accessed via the Internet are saved in collections stored in the database of a multimedia access system, which is shared by multiple users via individual user accounts. Collections may be copied from one user account to another user account, e-mailed, and posted on a website. Collections in the database may be searched by keywords associated with the collections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874521&OS=08874521&RS=08874521
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08874521
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 333 742 filed Dec. 12 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 127 633 filed on May 14 2008 which are incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 127 633 filed May 14 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to management of computer files and more particularly to collection storage and exchange of multimedia content.

The Internet has enabled users to access vast quantities of information. Previously available information was primarily stored on network servers as data files word documents and graphical images. A user would typically access a specific network server such as a specific webserver known to the user and download the information onto his local computer such as a personal computer PC . As information and telecommunications technology has advanced mechanisms for more complex information processing have developed 

These developments have enabled individual users to also become providers of multimedia content. Users may upload multimedia content for example onto commercial webservers or host private webservers. From simply playing multimedia content users have become actively involved in producing sharing and exchanging multimedia content. Online social networks have further fostered the popularity of these activities. What is needed are method and apparatus for efficiently managing multimedia content.

In an embodiment of the invention uniform resource locators of multimedia content are saved in collections stored in the database of a multimedia access system. Users access the multimedia access system via individual user accounts and collections are assigned to user accounts. A collection my be copied from a first user account to a second user account e mailed to a user and posted on a website. Collections stored in the database may be searched by via collection search terms.

These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Herein multimedia MM refers to any information which may be processed by a computer. Multimedia includes stored computer readable files such as data files text files still images audio files and video files. Multimedia further includes live real time or near real time presentations such as streaming data streaming text streaming audio and streaming video. Herein the term multimedia content refers to a specific multimedia instance such as a specific stored multimedia file or a specific live presentation. Multimedia content is identified by an associated or corresponding uniform resource locator URL . Herein an application accesses multimedia content via the URL associated with or corresponding to the multimedia content. Herein managing multimedia content refers to a set of operations for processing multimedia content. The set of operations include but are not limited to searching for collecting viewing saving storing indexing filing copying deleting organizing sharing and exchanging multimedia content. One skilled in the art may develop additional operations for processing multimedia content for specific applications.

In an embodiment of the invention as shown in a user accesses multimedia content via a MM access system MMAS which may be hosted by a MM access service provider on an application server such as AS mentioned above. MMAS interfaces with MM superset and external communications systems . Not shown are other interfaces such as application programming interfaces and user interfaces. One skilled in the art may develop specific application programming interfaces and specific user interfaces for specific embodiments of the invention. MM superset represents the superset of all MM content which may be accessed by a user over the Internet. In general MM superset comprises millions of elements an element of MM superset refers to MM content . Access to MM content may be public open to any user or private restricted to specified users . External communications systems are discussed further below.

Herein user US is designated as a representative user in the examples discussed below. In an embodiment of the invention US may access MMAS over the Internet via user equipment UE and may execute commands perform functions or operations on MMAS via a graphical user interface on UE . US for example may log onto a website hosted by a MM access service provider which assigns a user account to US . Herein a user account refers to a set of software and hardware resources. For example a user account may provide the software resources for performing the MM access services described below and for performing additional communications services such as e mail and posting to websites. A user account may also provide storage space on a disk drive to store user information. MMAS supports multiple user accounts with a specific user account assigned to a specific user. Herein a user accesses MMAS via a user account.

MMAS enables US to search for specific MM content of interest from among the elements of MM superset . The URLs of specific MM content of interest may then be processed and stored in database structures referred to herein as collections. User operations described below may then be performed on the collections. The process of constructing a collection is described with reference to the high level schematic in and the flowchart in . In US first accesses MM search engine to find MM content of interest. US enters MM search terms into MM search module . For example if US is searching for videos by a particular singer US may enter along with other delimiters such as type of multimedia and date of performance into MM search module which then searches MM superset for MM content correlated to the MM search terms. The MM results of the MM search are stored in MM results cache . The MM elements in MM results cache comprise URLs corresponding to specific MM content. An MM element in MM results cache may also include an associated small image thumbnail of the singer and associated supplementary information for example Clip from Live Concert. Madison Square Garden N.Y. Nov. 5 2008 .

The MM elements in MM results cache are then processed by MM results processing module . The process steps are summarized in the flowchart shown in . In step US views plays one of the MM elements labelled MM element in MM results cache by for example clicking on the URL or associated thumbnail. Herein clicking refers to the process of using a mouse to position a cursor over an active display element such as a Play button on a graphical user interface and operating a switch on the mouse to execute the command such as Play Video associated with the active display element. After US has viewed MM element the process passes to step in which US decides whether or not to save MM element . If US decides to not save MM element then US may return to step to view another MM element or stop.

If US decides to save MM result then the process passes to step in which US decides whether or not to create a new collection. Details of a collection are discussed further below. If US decides to create a new collection then the process passes to step and US enters a title for the new collection. If US decides to not create a new collection then the process passes to step and US selects an existing collection. After step or step the process then passes to step in which US enters options for a new collection or updates options for the selected existing collection. Options include 

The process then passes to step . If the collection is a new collection a new collection containing MM element is created. If the collection is a selected previous collection an updated existing collection containing MM element is saved. Step step may then be iterated for the remaining MM elements in MM results cache .

MM content field contains a MM content element MMCE for each MM content stored in the collection. Shown are three representative MMCEs MMCE MMCE and MMCE . Each MMCE contains various fields. For example MMCE contains MM title field which contains the MM title of the MMCE and MM image field which contains an associated graphical identifier for the MMCE. The URL for the MM content associated with MMCE is specified in the URL field . Supplementary information field contains supplementary information such as a description of the MM content the date on which the MM content was created and the number of times the MM content has been viewed. One skilled in the art may include other information fields in MMCE . Similarly MMCE contains MM title field MM image field URL field and supplementary information field and MMCE contains MM title field MM image field URL field and supplementary information field .

In an embodiment of the invention a collection page may be a personal collection page or a public collection page. A personal collection page displays the personal collections belonging to a specific user the owner of the personal collections . A personal collection is created by the owner or copied by the owner from another collection see discussion below . Herein a personal collection is assigned to the user account of the owner. Collections on a public collection page are created by any user. The owner of a specific collection designates whether the specific collection may be publicly accessible by other users. Herein other users refer to users other than the owner. As discussed below the owner may perform one set of operations on a personal collection and may perform another set of operations on a public collection.

The information displayed on collection page and collection set page are stored in database and managed by database management module . Collections are stored in database . Herein database comprises collections and cross correlated information. shows the high level schematic of database structure used to manage the information according to an embodiment of the invention. Database structure comprises four tables summary table MM location table thumbnails table and keywords table . The information in the tables are cross correlated.

The contents of the other tables are as follows. A thumbnail small image associated with each collection is stored in thumbnails table . Keywords also referred to as tags associated with each collection are stored in the keywords table . MM location table contains the sets of URLs of the MM content within each collection. In an embodiment a collection may be identified by an associated or corresponding URL. Herein an application may access a collection via the URL associated with or corresponding to the collection. The URLs associated with or corresponding to the collections may also be stored in MM location table or stored in a separate table.

In an embodiment of the invention a user may search store and perform operations on entire collections private or public . Processing a collection of MM content elements instead of processing individual MM content elements may be advantageous because a collection may contain large numbers for example hundreds or thousands of MM content elements. Instead of constructing a new collection for a favorite singer for example a user may view or copy if allowed public collections created by other users.

Processes for searching storing and performing operations on collections are described with reference to the high level schematic in and the flowchart in . US first accesses collections search engine to find collections of interest. In step US enters collections search terms into collections search module . For example if US is interested in performances by a singer US may enter and in collections search module which then searches database for public collections correlated to the collections search terms. Correlation for example may be based on matches between the collections search terms and the title and keywords associated with a public collection. The results of the collections search are stored in collections results cache . The elements of collections results cache comprise collection elements as previously discussed with respect to which are then processed by collections results processing module .

In step US receives the collection elements. The process then passes to step in which US views one of the collections. After viewing the process passes to step in which US checks whether the collection may be copied. If copy is not available then US may return to step and view another collection or stop. If copy is available then the process passes to step in which US decides whether to copy the collection or not. If US decides to not copy the collection then US may return to step and view another collection or stop. If US decides to copy the collection then the process passes to step in which US copies the collection. The result is a collection copy which now becomes a personal collection of US that is US becomes the owner of collection copy . Collection copy is copied to the user account of US .

One embodiment of a MMAS may be implemented using a computer. As shown in computer may be any type of well known computer comprising a central processing unit CPU memory data storage device and user input output interface . Data storage device may comprise a hard drive non volatile memory or other computer readable medium such as a magnetic disk or compact disc read only memory . User input output interface may comprise connections to user input output devices such mouse and keyboard which enable a user to operate computer . In this instance a user may be a network administrator for a MM access service provider which operates MM access system . A network administrator may also operate computer remotely over core network CN see below .

As is well known a computer operates under control of computer software which defines the overall operation of the computer and applications. CPU controls the overall operation of the computer and applications by executing computer program instructions which define the overall operation and applications. The computer program instructions may be stored in data storage device and loaded into memory when execution of the program instructions is desired. The method steps shown in the flowchart in or in the flowchart in may be defined by computer program instructions stored in the memory or in the data storage device or in a combination of memory and data storage device and controlled by the CPU executing the computer program instructions. For example the computer program instructions may be implemented as computer executable code programmed by one skilled in the art to perform algorithms implementing the method steps shown in the flowchart in or in the flowchart in . Accordingly by executing the computer program instructions the CPU executes algorithms implementing the method steps shown in the flowchart in or in the flowchart in .

Computer may further comprise a video display interface which transform signals from CPU to signals which drive video display . Computer may further comprise one or more network interfaces. For example communications network interface comprises a connection to core network CN . User US may use user equipment UE to communicate with computer via CN . The MMAS implemented on computer may search for multimedia content on application server hosted by a MM content provider for example via CN .

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the invention disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

