---

title: Apparatus and method for solid fuel chemical looping combustion
abstract: The disclosure provides an apparatus and method utilizing fuel reactor comprised of a fuel section, an oxygen carrier section, and a porous divider separating the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section. The porous divider allows fluid communication between the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section while preventing the migration of solids of a particular size. Maintaining particle segregation between the oxygen carrier section and the fuel section during solid fuel gasification and combustion processes allows gases generated in either section to participate in necessary reactions while greatly mitigating issues associated with mixture of the oxygen carrier with char or ash products. The apparatus and method may be utilized with an oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier such as CuO, MnO, or CoO, or utilized with a CO/Hreducing oxygen carrier such as FeO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09004911&OS=09004911&RS=09004911
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09004911
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure relates to a fuel reactor for a chemical looping combustion system having a fuel section and an oxygen carrier section separated by a porous divider where the porous divider provides for fluid communication between the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section while preventing the passage of solids greater than a specific size. The disclosure additionally relates to method of conducting a chemical looping combustion process utilizing the fuel reactor disclosed.

In chemical looping combustion oxygen is transferred from an air reactor to fuel reactor utilizing an oxygen carrier typically a metal oxide. The oxygen earners are reduced and fuel is oxidized in the fuel reactor after which the reduced oxygen carriers are returned to the air reactor for regeneration to an oxidized state. With this arrangement the fuel and the air remain separated and the process generates a stream of oxygen depleted air leaving the air reactor and a stream of combustion gases mainly COand HO leaving the fuel reactor. After condensing he water relatively pure COis obtained from the exhaust gas of the fuel reactor. Correspondingly COseparation is inherent to the process.

When gaseous fuels are utilized in chemical looping combustion systems the fuel is introduced into the fuel reactor as a reducing gas and appropriate reaction between the oxygen carrier and the reducing gas becomes largely a function of facilitating germane thermodynamic conditions. However in contrast to these gaseous fuel approaches significant differences arise when utilizing a solid carbonaceous fuel such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. Since fossil carbon largely occurs as a solid rather than as or liquid it is desirable to adapt the chemical looping combustion process to solid fuels. Generally this is accomplished by either directly introducing the solid fuel into the fuel reactor or by first gasifying the solid fuel in a primary step to generate a gaseous fuel following gaseous fuel chemical looping combustion. The latter method is less desirable due to the necessity for a separate preliminary gasifier.

When solid fuels are directly introduced into the fuel reactor of a chemical looping combustion system fuel conversion generally proceeds through drying devolatilization and gasification described in reactions 1 and 2 below Solid fuel volatiles char 1 C HO CO H 2 

Depending on the type of oxygen carrier utilized such as FeO gases produced by devolatilization and gasification can interact with and be oxidized by the oxygen carrier according to CH n m MeO nCO mHO n m MeO 3 C HO CO CO H CO 4 H CO MeO HO CO MeO 5 

Alternatively an oxygen carrier such as CuO may be utilized which releases gaseous oxygen in the fuel reactor according to MeO MeO O 6 

Following the applicable reactions above in the fuel reactor the reduced oxygen carrier is then oxidized in the air reactor according to O MeO MeO 7 

When utilizing directly introduced solid fuels the applicable fuel reactor reactions are typically generated by fluidizing both the fuel and the oxygen carrier in the fuel reactor which can generate several significant issues typically not present when gaseous fuels are utilized. For example with both oxygen carrier and fuel particles present in the fuel reactor there is significant risk that char may follow the oxygen carrier particle flow and proceed to the air reactor where it burns and produces CO. Consequently char separation between the fuel reactor and the air reactor is necessary. Typically a carbon stripper must be utilized specifically for this purpose. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 767 191 to Thomas et al. issued Aug. 3 2010 U.S. Pat. No. 7 824 574 issued to White et al. issued Nov. 11 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 375 957 by Beal et al. Pub. No. US 2012 0167808 published Jul. 5 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 272 647 by Cao et al. Pub. No. US 2012 0124106 published Aug. 23 2012 among others. Additionally the solid fuel generates ash in the fuel reactor and interaction between ash particles and the oxygen carrier leads to gradual deactivation of the oxygen carrier. See e.g. Siriwardane et al. Chemical Looping Combustion of Coal with Metal Oxide Oxygen Carriers Energy Fuels 23 2009 see also Wang et al. Mechanistic investigation of chemical looping combustion of coal with Fe2O3 Oxygen Carrier Fuel 90 2011 among others. Further when the ash is periodically discharged from the fuel reactor oxygen carrier particles may be elutriated in the ash stream and lost from the system and similar inactivation and separation issues may be expected with the additional use of oxides halides and carbonates as char gasification catalysts in the fuel reactor. Thus for chemical looping processes utilizing solid fuels the system must be optimized to obtain satisfactory separation between the oxygen carrier and both the char and ash produced in the fuel reactor.

It would he advantageous to provide a fuel reactor for a chemical looping combustion system which allowed various fuel reactor reactions to occur in a manner which maintained separation between the oxygen carrier and the solid fuel during the reactions. Such a fuel reactor would greatly mitigate the additional issues associated with solid fuel chemical looping combustion such as the necessity for carbon stripping detrimental oxygen carrier ash interactions and loss of the oxygen carrier with the ash stream. Such a fuel reactor would further allow for the addition of catalytic materials to increase and manage solid fuel gasification while minimizing impact on the oxygen carrier.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The apparatus and Method disclosed utilizes fuel reactor comprised of a fuel section and an oxygen carrier section and further comprised of a porous divider separating the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section. The porous divider is comprised of a material allowing fluid communication between the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section while preventing the migration of solids of a particular size for example particles generally greater than about 25 microns. The porous divider may be comprised of screen mesh or other materials which provide for fluid communication between the respective sections while preventing the transfer of solids larger than a specific size.

Maintaining particle segregation between the oxygen carrier section and the fuel section during solid fuel gasification and combustion processes allows gases generated in either section to participate in necessary reactions while greatly mitigating or preventing any mixture of the oxidized and reduced carriers with either remaining char or the ash products. The porous divider separating the oxygen carrier section and the fuel section in the fuel reactor provides significant advantage over current practices by largely preventing the mixing of char and ash with the oxygen carrier in order to avoid attendant issues such as carbon leakage and oxygen carrier interactions with ash. Additionally the porous divider separating the oxygen carrier section and fuel section during the gasification and combustion processes allows for the use of various gasification catalysts in conjunction with a solid carbonaceous fuel in a manner greatly mitigating any potential impact on the oxygen carrier.

In operation a solid carbonaceous fuel is introduced to the fuel section and an oxidized carrier is introduced to the oxygen carrier section. The oxidized carrier may be an oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier which liberates oxygen as a result of temperature and partial pressure conditions such as CuO MnO or CoO or may be a CO Hreducing oxygen carrier which is reduced by Hand CO such as FeO. In either case the porous divider functions to allow gases generated in a respective section to pass through the porous divider and impact solid constituents in the separated section in order to generate necessary reactions.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a chemical looping combustion apparatus and process utilizing a fuel reactor having a fuel section and an oxygen carne section separated by a porous divider where the porous divider provides for fluid communication between the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section while preventing the passage of solids greater than a specific size.

The apparatus and method is discussed with reference to . At fuel reactor is comprised of fuel section and oxygen carrier section . Additionally fuel reactor is comprised of porous divider separating fuel section and oxygen carrier section . Porous divider is comprised of a material allowing fluid communication between fuel section and oxygen carrier section while preventing the migration of solids of a particular size for example particles generally less than about 25 microns. Porous divider separates fuel section and oxygen carrier section such that a particle must encounter and pass through porous divider in order to transfer from fuel section to oxygen carrier section or vice versa. Porous divider may be comprised of screen mesh or other materials which provide fur fluid communication between the respective sections while preventing the transfer of solids larger than a specific size. Additionally fuel reactor is comprised of fuel inlet and ash outlet in fluid communication with fuel section further comprised of oxidized carrier inlet and reduced carrier discharge in fluid communication with oxygen carrier section and further comprised of combustion gas outlet in fluid communication with the internal volume of fuel reactor .

Maintaining particle segregation between oxygen carrier section and fuel section during the gasification and combustion processes allows gases generated in either section to participate in necessary reactions while greatly mitigating or preventing any mixture of the oxidized and reduced carriers with either remaining char or the ash products. This arrangement has clear advantage over typical fuel reactor arrangements where a solid carbonaceous fuel such as coal is physically mixed with the oxidized carrier and the carrier remaining char and ash products must be separated. Typically the necessary separation processes are driven by differences in density and loss of some portion of the oxygen carrier via incomplete separation is inevitable. In addition direct mixture of the oxidized and reduced carriers with the ash product significantly impacts the oxygen transfer capabilities of the oxygen carrier through the formation of various compounds such as aluminates and silicates. These losses directly impact the expected effective lifetime of the carrier. Further in the direct mixing fuel reactors some unconverted char becomes entrained and exits the fuel reactor with the reduced carrier necessitating the use of a carbon separation system between the fuel reactor and the oxidation reactor. Inevitably some of the unconverted char passes to the oxidation reactor and undergoes combustion compromising any COcapture efforts associated with combustion in the fuel reactor. The porous divider separating the oxygen carrier section and the fuel section in the fuel reactor disclosed here provides significant advantage over current practices by largely preventing the mixing and char and ash with the oxygen carrier in order to avoid the attendant issues. Additionally the porous divider separating the oxygen carrier section and fuel section during the gasification and combustion processes allows for the use of various gasification catalysts in conjunction with a solid carbonaceous fuel in a manner greatly mitigating any potential impact on the oxygen carrier in oxygen carrier section . The necessary residence time in the fuel reactor for char gasification is a limiting constraint with chemical looping systems utilizing solid carbonaceous fuels.

Fuel section and oxygen carrier section respectively are separate distinct and non intersecting three dimensional volumes within fuel reactor with porous divider separating the separate distinct and non intersecting three dimensional volumes as stated. Here separating as it pertains to fuel section and oxygen carrier section means that porous divider is geometrically located within fuel reactor between the three dimensional volume of fuel section and the three dimensional volume of oxygen carrier section and that fluid communication between fuel section and oxygen carrier section within the bounds of fuel reactor may only occur via a pathway that intersects porous divider . Porous divider thus separates fuel section and oxygen carrier section such that a particle must encounter and pass through porous divider in order to transfer from fuel section to oxygen carrier section or vice versa.

In an embodiment fuel reactor is a component in a chemical looping combustion system further comprised of oxidation reactor oxidized carrier conduit and reduced carrier conduit . Oxidation reactor is comprised of oxidized carrier discharge reduced carrier inlet air inlet and vitiated air outlet all in fluid communication with the internal volume of oxygen reactor . Further in the chemical looping combustion system oxidation conduit maintains fluid communication between the oxidized carrier discharge of oxidation reactor and the oxidized carrier inlet of fuel reactor . and reduced carrier conduit maintains fluid communication between the reduced carrier discharge of fuel reactor and the reduced carrier inlet of oxidation reactor .

In operation a solid carbonaceous fuel is introduced through fuel inlet and contained in fuel section of fuel reactor and an oxidized carrier is introduced through oxidized carrier inlet and contained in oxygen carrier section . The oxidized carrier may be an oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier which liberates oxygen as a result of temperature and partial pressure conditions such as CuO MnO or CoO or may be a CO Hreducing oxygen carrier which is reduced by Hand CO such as FeO. In either case porous divider functions to allow gases generated in a respective section to pass through the porous divider and contact solid constituents in the separated section in order to generate necessary reactions while mitigating or preventing mixture of the oxidized and reduced carriers with remaining char and ash products extending oxygen carrier useful life and minimizing carbon leakage to oxidation reactor . In an embodiment a gasification catalyst is additionally introduced into fuel section of fuel reactor in order to increase the rate of gasification of the solid carbonaceous fuel.

Within this disclosure an oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier means a metal oxide comprised of a metal and oxygen and having a chemical equilibrium with gaseous oxygen and a reduced product where the reduced product is comprised of the metal or a metal oxide with a lower oxidation state than the original. Under a reducing temperature and an Opartial pressure condition the oxygen uncoupling oxygen earner produces the gaseous oxygen and the reduced product in a reduction reaction and under an oxidizing temperature and Opartial pressure condition the gaseous oxygen and the reduced product produce the oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier in an oxidation reaction. When in chemical equilibrium concentrations of the oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier the oxygen gas and the reduced product respond according to Le Chatelier s principle so that when the chemical system at equilibrium experiences a change in concentration temperature volume or partial pressure the equilibrium shifts to counteract the imposed change and new concentrations are established as is understood in the art. Within this disclosure oxygen uncoupling oxygen carriers include but are not limited to metal oxides such as CuO MnO and CoO.

Additionally within this disclosure the term equilibrium partial pressure of oxygen refers to a partial pressure of oxygen over a chemical compound comprised of oxygen where the chemical compound has a chemical equilibrium with gaseous oxygen and a product and where the equilibrium partial pressure of oxygen maintains the chemical equilibrium among the chemical compound the gaseous oxygen and the product at a given temperature

Additionally within this disclosure a CO Hreducing oxygen carrier means a metal oxide comprised of a metal and oxygen and having a chemical equilibrium with gaseous CO or Hand a reduced product where the reduced product is comprised of the metal or a metal oxide at a lower oxidation state. Under a reducing temperature and a CO or Hpartial pressure condition the CO Hreducing oxygen carrier produces gaseous COor HO respectively and the reduced product in a reduction reaction. When in chemical equilibrium concentrations of the CO Hreducing oxygen carrier the gaseous CO or H and the reduced product respond according to Le Chatelier s principle so that when the chemical system at equilibrium experiences a change in concentration temperature volume or partial pressure the equilibrium shifts to counteract the imposed change and new concentrations are established as is understood in the art. Within this disclosure. CO Hreducing oxygen carriers include but are not limited to metal oxides such as FeO NiO and CaSO.

Additionally within this disclosure a solid carbonaceous fuel means a solid comprised of carbon such as coal petcoke char biomass or other fuels.

Additionally within this disclosure a gasification catalyst means a material which increases the gasification reactivity of the solid carbonaceous Fuel under the conditions within the fuel section of the fuel reactor. In an embodiment the gasification catalyst is comprised of alkali metals transition metals or a combination thereof.

In a particular embodiment fuel reactor is further comprised of sweeping gas inlet in fluid communication with oxygen carrier section and the system of is utilized with an oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier for combustion of the solid carbonaceous fuel. In this embodiment the oxidized carrier is discharged from oxidized carrier inlet into oxygen carrier section of fuel reactor and heated to a reducing temperature sufficient to generate a reduction reaction reducing the oxygen carrier and generating a reduced carrier and gaseous oxygen. Concurrently a sweep gas issues from sweeping gas inlet and into oxygen carrier section at a rate sufficient to maintain a partial pressure of oxygen over the oxidized carrier below the equilibrium partial pressure of oxygen at the reducing temperature. Following the reduction some portion of the liberated oxygen transfers through porous divider from oxygen carrier section to fuel section either through diffusion a differential pressure generated by the sweeping gas or a combination.

Concurrently a solid carbonaceous fuel is discharged through fuel inlet into fuel section of the fuel reactor . The solid carbonaceous fuel is contacted by gaseous oxygen liberated from the oxygen uncoupling oxygen carrier and fuel section is maintained at a combustion temperature sufficient to cause the liberated oxygen to react with the solid carbonaceous fuel generating combustion gases comprised of COand HO and an ash residue. The combustion gases are ejected from fuel reactor through the combustion gas outlet and the ash residue is ejected from fuel reactor via ash outlet .

Typically the solid carbonaceous fuel is further comprised of volatiles and fuel section is maintained at a temperature sufficient to volatize the solid carbonaceous fuel and generate volatization gases comprised of a hydrocarbon gas as well as other gases such as H CO and CO. In this embodiment some portion of the volatization gases may transfer across porous divider from fuel section to oxygen carrier section generating a further reduction reaction in oxygen carrier section . For example in this embodiment the oxidized carrier may be CuO and liberate oxygen in a reduction reaction to CuO followed by contact with gases generated through fuel volitization and further reduction to Cu. In addition to allowing the oxidized carrier to deliver additional oxygen to fuel reactor and thereby reducing oxidized earner inventory requirements the additional reduction from CuO is Cu is an exothermic reaction which can assist in maintaining temperatures within fuel reactor .

Following generation of the reduced carrier the reduced carrier is transported through reduced carrier discharge and reduced carrier conduit and issued through reduced carrier inlet of oxidation reactor where oxidation reactor is maintained at art oxidation temperature. Within oxidation reactor a partial pressure of oxygen above the equilibrium partial pressure of oxygen over the reduced carrier at the oxidizing temperature is established by introducing an oxidizing gas comprised of oxygen through air inlet of oxidation reactor and contacting the reduced carrier and the oxidizing gas within oxidation reactor . Under these conditions the reduced carrier undergoes oxidation and produces regenerated carrier and vitiated air where the vitiated it is the oxidizing gas less the oxygen utilized in the oxidation reaction and the regenerated carrier is a metal oxide having the same chemical composition as the oxidized carrier. The vitiated air is discharged from oxidation reactor through vitiated air outlet of . The process as described may he continuously conducted in a cyclic fashion by transferring the regenerated carrier through oxidized carrier discharge of oxygen reactor and through oxidized carrier conduit for discharge through oxidized carrier inlet into oxygen carrier section of fuel reactor .

In another embodiment fuel reactor is further comprised of gasification agent inlet in fluid communication with fuel section and the system of is utilized with a CO Hreducing oxygen carrier for combustion of the solid carbonaceous fuel. In this embodiment the solid carbonaceous fuel is discharged through fuel inlet into fuel section of fuel reactor and a gasification agent comprised of HO CO or a combination is issued through gasification agent inlet . The gasification agent and the solid carbonaceous fuel are contacted within fuel section and fuel section is maintained at a temperature sufficient to generate gasification gases comprised of CO and H. Following the gasification some portion of the gasification gases transfers through porous divider from fuel section to oxygen carrier section either through diffusion a differential pressure generated by the gasification agent or a combination Typically the solid carbonaceous fuel is further comprised of volatiles and fuel section is maintained at a temperature sufficient to volatize the solid carbonaceous fuel generating volatization gases which may additionally transfer across porous divider from fuel section to oxygen carrier section .

Concurrently the oxygen carrier is discharged from oxidized carrier inlet into oxygen carrier section of fuel reactor . The oxygen carrier within oxygen carrier section is contacted by the gasification gases and possibly the volatization gases generating a reduced carrier and combustion gases comprised of COand HO and an ash residue. The combustion gases are ejected from fuel reactor through the combustion gas outlet and the ash residue is ejected from fuel reactor via ash outlet .

Following generation of the reduced carrier the reduced carrier is transported through reduced carrier discharge and reduced carrier conduit and issued through reduced carrier inlet of oxidation reactor where oxidation reactor is maintained at an oxidation temperature. Within oxidation reactor a partial pressure of oxygen above the equilibrium partial pressure of oxygen over the reduced carrier at the oxidizing temperature is established by introducing an oxidizing gas comprised of oxygen through air inlet of oxidation reactor and contacting the reduced carrier and the oxidizing gas within oxidation reactor . Under these conditions the reduced carrier undergoes oxidation and produces a regenerated carrier and vitiated air where the vitiated air is the oxidizing gas less the oxygen utilized in the oxidation reaction and the regenerated carrier is a metal oxide having the same chemical composition as the oxidized carrier. The vitiated air is discharged from oxidation reactor through vitiated air outlet . The process as described may be continuously conducted in a cyclic fashion by transferring the regenerated carrier through oxidized carrier discharge of oxygen reactor and through oxidized carrier conduit for discharge through oxidized carrier inlet into oxygen carrier section of fuel reactor .

It is understood. that when the methodology describes various temperatures within fuel reactor such as a reducing temperature a combustion temperature a temperature sufficient to volatize the solid carbonaceous fuel a temperature sufficient to generate gasification gases and other descriptions this is not intended to imply a requirement that different temperature ranges be utilized for each separate descriptor. The various temperatures May all be substantially equivalent provided that the reaction or action associated with each of the various described temperatures is accomplished.

The fuel reactor is not limited to any particular geometric configuration provided that porous divider is geometrically located within fuel reactor between the three dimensional volume of fuel section and the three dimensional volume of oxygen carrier section and that fluid communication between fuel section and oxygen earner section within the bounds of fuel reactor may only occur via a pathway that intersects porous divider . However because fluid communication between fuel section and oxygen carrier section is necessary to accomplish the looping combustion as described herein configurations which maximize the surface area of porous divider relative to the volume of fuel section or oxygen carrier section may be advantageous. For example illustrates an overhead view of a particular fuel reactor oriented with respect to the x y z axis shown with the y axis proceeding out of the page. In this configuration fuel section is an annular cylinder surrounding oxygen carrier section and separated by oxygen carrier section by cylindrical porous divider . The same fuel reactor is illustrated at rotated in accordance with the x y z axis illustrated. The annular and cylindrical arrangement illustrated has the advantage of providing a relatively large porous divider surface area relative to the respective volumes of fuel section and oxygen carrier section . Fuel reactor is additionally comprised of a fuel inlet not shown ash outlet not shown oxidized carrier inlet not shown reduced carrier discharge not shown and combustion gas outlet not shown having relationships with fuel section and oxygen carrier section as earlier described.

Additionally the oxygen carrier section may be comprised of a plurality of individual oxygen carrier sections the fuel section may be comprised of a plurality of individual fuel sections and the porous divider may be comprised of a plurality of individual porous dividers provided that each oxygen carrier section is separated from each filet section by at least one individual porous divider. For example illustrates an overhead view of a particular fuel reactor oriented with respect to the x y z axis shown with the y axis proceeding out of the page and illustrating a fuel section and an oxygen carrier section comprised of a plurality of individual oxygen carrier sections and . Additionally the porous divider of fuel reactor is comprised of a plurality of individual porous dividers and as indicated. The same fuel reactor is illustrated at rotated in accordance with the x y z axis illustrated. As shown at each oxygen carrier section in the plurality of individual oxygen carrier sections and is separated from fuel section by at least one individual porous divider in the plurality of individual porous dividers and

In an embodiment the fuel reactor has a ratio S V where Sis a surface area of the porous divider and Vis the combined volume of the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section. In this embodiment the ratio S Vis greater than 0.1 in 1 inch . Here the surface area of the porous divider means a total surface area of the porous divider in contact with either the fuel section or the oxygen carrier section volume boundary where in contact means that the boundary of the fuel section or the oxygen carrier section extends to the porous divider. For example at a fuel section and an oxygen carrier section within a filet reactor are separated by porous divider . The boundary of fuel section extends to porous divider and is in contact with porous divider over a surface area S while the boundary of oxygen carrier section also extends to porous divider and is in contact with porous divider over a surface area S. At fuel section and oxygen carrier section are separate distinct non intersecting three dimensional volumes are discussed and the areas Sand Sare parallel to the z axis indicated. If the volume of fuel section is Vand the volume of oxygen carrier section is V then in this embodiment either S V V or S V V is greater than 0.1 in.

The oxidizing and reducing reactors may establish contact between gaseous and solid phases using any means known in the art and may incorporate a rotary kiln moving beds of particles fluidized beds fixed beds or other methods known in the art. Transport of the particles or pellets between reactors may be accomplished in a variety of ways including moving bed arrangements fluidized transfer of pellets and other means known to those skilled in the art. For example a reactor may be a high velocity fluidized bed where particles are transported together with an exiting gas flow to the top of the air reactor and then transferred to a second reactor via a cyclone. Similarly a reactor may be bubbling fluidized bed reactor with particles transported to a second reactor by an overflow pipe. Additionally within the method disclosed herein heat may be transferred between oxidizing reactor fuel reactor and the various gas streams utilized or generated. in order to mitigate heat duty requirements. Further various gaseous streams such as vitiated air exiting vitiated air outlet and combustion gases exiting combustion gas outlet may be additionally utilized for power generation by providing motive force to a turbine through heat exchange for the generation of steam or other methods known in the art. Combustion gases exiting combustion gas outlet may also be subjected to various COsequestration methods known in the art and may additionally be utilized as fluidization or gasification agents within the process.

The method thus provides for an apparatus and method utilizing a fuel reactor comprised of a fuel section and an oxygen carrier section and further comprised of a porous divider separating the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section. The porous divider allows fluid communication between the fuel section and the oxygen carrier section while preventing the migration of solids of a particular size. Maintaining particle segregation between the oxygen carrier section and the fuel section during solid fuel gasification and combustion processes allows gases generated in either section to participate in necessary reactions while greatly mitigating or preventing any mixture of the oxidized and reduced carriers with either remaining char or the ash products.

It is to he understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. it is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

