---

title: Password check by decomposing password
abstract: A proposed password is decomposed into basic components to determine and score transitions between the basic components and create a password score that measures the strength of the proposed password based on rules, such as concatenation, insertion, and replacement. The proposed password is scored against all known words, such as when a user is first asked to create a password for an account or access. The proposed password can also be scored against one or more previous passwords for the user, such as when the user is asked to change the user's previous password, to determine similarity between the two passwords.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471772&OS=09471772&RS=09471772
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09471772
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120430
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 492 294 filed Jun. 1 2011.

The present invention generally relates to passwords and in particular to checking a password strength.

Passwords are used to provide security to a user s sensitive information and to grant a user access to content. For example a user may be required to enter a correct password to access certain information such as financial information and perform certain transactions such as making a payment Thus secure passwords are important to prevent unauthorized use or access to a user s account or information. Typically the more obscure the password or unrelated it is to the user the harder it is for someone to correctly guess or determine the actual user password. In addition systems or sites may require the user to periodically change the password for additional security. Thus it is important for the user to select or change to a password that is strong as opposed to weak and not easily determined by others even with knowledge of the previous password.

However users typically select or change passwords that are easy to remember. For the former users may select a word a phrase a number or a combination thereof that makes sense for the user such as a name a birthday an address or the like. For the latter the user may slightly modify the previous password by adding a number or replacing a number with the next number. These passwords may be easy for fraudsters to obtain such as by guessing or other more analytical methods. This may then allow an unauthorized user to access a user account including make unauthorized payments or withdrawals engage in identity theft etc.

According to one embodiment a proposed password is decomposed into basic components to determine and score transitions between the basic components and create a password score that measures the strength of the proposed password.

In one embodiment a proposed password is scored against all known words such as when a user is first asked to create a password for an account or access.

In another embodiment a proposed password is scored against one or more previous passwords for the user such as when the user is asked to change the user s previous password.

In one embodiment a password is analyzed to determine all words or numbers referred to generally to as words contained within the password. A word may be appended to the beginning or end of another word or inserted within another word. Once the words have been identified a series of rules are applied. In one embodiment a first rule is concatenation in which a word is appended to the beginning or end of another word. A score is then determined. Next a second rule is applied which is insertion and the score updated. Insertion is when a word is placed within another word. A third rule replacement is then applied. Replacement is when one or more characters are replaced in the word. The password score is again updated based on the replacement analysis. Each rule can have a different weight. Also each rule can have different weights within a rule. The final score of the password can then be used to determine its strength or weakness. If the score indicates a very weak password the user may be asked to submit a different password.

In another embodiment one or more previous passwords may be compared with a newly proposed password to determine how similar they are. In one embodiment only the most recent password is compared. The comparison can be based on the rules above. If the proposed password is too similar to the previous password s the user may be asked to submit a new replacement password. This may be the case even when the password appears very strong by itself however it was only changed by the next sequential number from the previous password.

As a result new and replacement passwords can be checked for strength to increase the security of a user proposed password.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

A user typically submits a proposed password at the request of a site system or merchant as part of an account creation or maintenance process. Examples of sites or systems requiring a user to submit a proposed password include financial institutions merchants educational institutions law firms and the like generally referred to herein as service providers. For example a payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. may request the user to enter a proposed password along with a user identifier in order to create an account with PayPal. After a year or another time period PayPal may request the user to submit a new password for security reasons. The user may be requested to submit a new password at other non periodic times such as when the user account has been compromised or suspected of being compromised.

Once a password is requested such as through a user device the user may enter and communicate the proposed password from the user device to the site. User devices may include a smart phone a computing tablet a PC or other computing devices. The proposed password may be communicated electronically such as through a mobile wireless or cable network to a server processor or other computing device. The computing device of the site then determines whether the proposed password is acceptable.

Current password checkers typically use counters of occurrence e.g. one upper case character two numerals at least seven characters etc. . These types of strength checkers may allow weak passwords to be accepted by a site or system. For example a user named John Smith may select jOHNsMITH12 as a password. This may pass a conventional checker by having at least one upper case character at last one lower case character at least two numerals and at least seven characters. However it may not be hard for someone to guess this password.

In different embodiments of the present invention computing device checks a proposed password by decomposing the password into more basic words and or numbers and analyzing how the password uses the smaller blocks to create the password by applying a set of rules and scoring the password. If the score is above a predetermined threshold the user may be notified that the proposed password is accepted. However if the score is below the threshold the user may be notified that the password is unacceptable and to submit another proposed password. The user may also be notified as to one or more reasons the password was not accepted.

In one embodiment the site utilizes three rules to determine whether to accept a proposed password 1 concatenation 2 insertion and 3 replacement. Note that different rules and different numbers of rules can be used in other embodiments. Concatenation is when one word is appended to the beginning or end of another word. Words as used herein can be mean actual words names acronyms numbers and or characters. An example of a concatenation is blueink which is the word blue appended to the beginning of the word ink or equivalently the word ink appended to the end of the word blue. 

Insertion is when a word is inserted into or within another word. One example is binklue in which ink is inserted after the letter b in blue. Another example is bi435g in which the word 435 is inserted after the letter i in big. In another example F ish ing is Fishing but with the character inserted after both F and h. 

Replacement is when one or more letters in the password are replaced. For example in Trul4 the y in Truly was replaced with 4. In another example jOHNsMITH13 is a password in which the 2 in jOHNsMITH12 is replaced with 3. As will be appreciated by those in the art there are many different ways to break down a word in addition to the rules described above.

In response the user communicates a password from the user device which is received by the service provider at step . The user may enter the password using a keypad microphone or other data input entry means on the user device. The password may be a combination of letters numbers and symbols generally referred to as characters . In this example the proposed password is Flat3dog which the user may enter through a keypad. Once the user proposed password is received a determination is made at step whether password requirements are met. The service provider may require the password to be a minimum length contain one or more specific characters types and or contain a minimum number of one or more specific character types. In this example the password is required to be at least seven characters long and contain at least one capital letter and at least one number which is met by Flat3dog .

If the password requirements are not met by the proposed password the user may be requested to submit another password at step . Once an acceptable password has been received the password may be assigned an initial score at step . In a typical process once the password is deemed acceptable by the service provider the proposed password is accepted with no further analysis.

However with embodiments of the present invention the proposed password is further processed as follows. The initial score may be based on specific rules for the service provider. For example the score may be a function of password length the number of different characters used and the number of characters used that are not lower case or upper case letters with the longer the length the larger number of different characters used and or the higher number of non letter characters used the higher the score. Continuing with the example Flat3dog may be assigned an initial score of 54.

Next the proposed password is analyzed for concatenations at step by first identifying all words within the password. This may include all possible words numbers and characters or a subset or a combination such as only whole words or names. For example Flat3dog may be decomposed into the words Flat at 3 do and dog . Based on this there may be two concatenations 3 appended to the end of Flat or vice versa and 3 appended to the front of dog or vice versa . Thus as determined at step the proposed password has concatenations which causes the password score to be updated at step . For example if the initial score was 54 the updated score may now be 60 e.g. applying a rule allocating two points for each concatenation . Note that in one embodiment no initial score may be assigned and the first score would be based on the result of the first rule or test which in this embodiment would be concatenations.

Next the password is analyzed to determine at step whether there are any insertions. In the Flat3dog example there is one insertion of a 3 into Flatdog. If there is one or more insertions the score is updated at step . Continuing with the example the score may not be updated to a 65 e.g. applying the rule of five points to each insertion .

Next the password is analyzed to determine at step whether the password has any replacements. If one or more replacements are found the score is again updated at step . However as with the current example there are no replacements the score is not updated. Once a rule set is finished the password score is finalized. In this case the score for Flat3dog is 65. Note that the rules described above are not limiting. The rules can be applied in different order additional rules may be added one or more of the above rules may be deleted etc. One or more steps described herein may also be performed in different order combined or omitted.

In another example the proposed password is FlaDogt . First all words are identified Flat and Dog . The insertion rule is triggered but not the concatenation rule or the replacement rule. Thus a score is given to FlaDogt based only on the insertion rule. In another example f t is analyzed. There are no concatenations or insertions but there is a replacement i.e. may have replaced ee ea la etc. Here the score is based on the replacement rule s .

What rules to apply and how to score may depend on the password checker and can vary. For example concatenation may have a lower weight than insertion because it is easier to determine a concatenated password than one with an insertion. Even with a rule there may be different weights. For example with insertions an insertion before the last letter may have a lower weight than an insertion in the middle of the word again due to ease of determination. A number insertion may have a lower weight than a word insertion. In one embodiment the lower the score the less secure or strong the password is.

Passwords can be decomposed using a lexicographic scanner where the language expressed is a regular language and the scanner is similar to a parser of a computer program compiler. Customized programs may be written to decompose passwords as well.

Next at step a determination is made whether the computed score is greater than or equal to the score threshold. If not the proposed password may be deemed to not be strong enough for the user and or the service provider. In that case the service provider may request the user to submit a new password at step which can be similar to step in . However the request at step may also include one or more reasons why the proposed password was not acceptable. For example the user may be informed that there is not enough separation or differentiation between the combination of words in the password. By providing the user such information the user may be better equipped to submit a password that is more likely to be accepted.

After requesting a new password the service provider receives the new password and computes a score for the new password at step such as with steps illustrated in and corresponding text. Once the score for the new password is determined it is compared with the score threshold again at step . The service provider may allow the user to continually submit passwords until one meets or exceeds the score threshold or the service provider may only allow the user a limited amount of submissions before it either assigns the user a password or some other action.

Upon receiving a password that meets or exceeds the service provider s score threshold the password is stored at step such as in a database memory cloud or other storage means controlled or managed by the service provider. The password may be stored and associated with the newly created user account along with any account identifiers such as a user name email address phone number account number etc.

The service provider may then notify the user at step that the submitted password has been accepted. The notification may be electronically to the user device such as in a text message email or voice message. The user may then be granted access to the user account with the service provider.

Once the new proposed password has met any service provider requirements the service provider typically accepts the new password for the user account or access. This may result in an easily determinable password by fraudsters such as when the new password is logically very similar to the old password and or is an easy password to guess regardless of the old password.

In embodiments of the present invention the new password is not automatically accepted but rather goes through further analysis as follows. First the service provider retrieves the old or current password at step such as from the user s stored account information. Thus the service provider has both a newly proposed password from the user and the current password the user enters for authentication with the service provider.

The two passwords the new proposed password and the old current password are decomposed and scored at step such as described in . If the two passwords are similar their scores may also be similar. The scores are based solely on each password itself and not on any comparisons with other passwords. For example if the old password was johnsmith123 and the new proposed password is johnsmith124 the old password may be assigned a score of 40 and the new password may be assigned a score of 42. Both passwords use only concatenation and not insertions or replacements. The new password may have a slightly higher score due to the non sequential nature of 124 as opposed to 123 . In one embodiment only the new proposed password is assigned an individual strength score.

Next at step a first similarity score based on components or words of the two passwords is computed. Passwords that are very close to one another may be result in a low similarity score or a high similarity score if high scores denote similar passwords . This may be the case even if both passwords are very unique such as Xci4 0  iC . With the previous example the similar score for johnsmith123 and johnsmith124 would have a similarity score indicating very similar passwords e.g. ones that differ only by a number at the end such as a 1 or a 97 on a 100 point scale . To the contrary a proposed password of gregjones456 would have a similar score indicating very different passwords even though the format or structure is the same. The proposed password is composed of words that are not included anywhere in the old password.

The service provider also determines at step a second similarity score based on rules e.g. concatenation insertion replacement for the two passwords. For example using the above example both passwords jimmysmith123 and jimmysmith124 use concatenation multiple times but no other rules. Thus this will generate a score indicating very similar if not the same rule similarities such as a 0 1 or 97 100 on a 100 point scale .

To the contrary a proposed password of 88ji42mmy smitYEt123 would have a score indicating very different rules even though it can be decomposed into words or components of the original password. The original password only uses concatenation while the proposed password uses concatenation insertion and replacement multiple times. Note that the process can apply to all or more than one previous user passwords not just the current password.

A final or total score for the proposed password can be determined at step . The total score may be a function of the individual strength score determined at step the first similarity score based on words determined at step and the second similarity score based on rules determined at step . In other embodiments additional factors can be included and one or more of the scores can be omitted. Continuing with the above example the proposed new password jimmysmith124 may receive a final score of 44 because it is similar to the original password both in similarity of words and similarity of rules.

A threshold score may be obtained at step or earlier. Factors for determining a threshold score may be the same as described previously at step of or may be the same as the threshold score previously used by the service provider.

The final score is then compared with the threshold score and a determination is made at step whether the final score is greater than or equal to the threshold score. If not that indicates the new proposed password would not be acceptable to the service provider as being weak and or too similar to the old or current password. In that case the service provider may request the user to submit a new password at step and then compute the strength of the new password at step . These steps may be the same or similar to steps described in other embodiments. The analysis may then continue at step to eventually determine whether the newly proposed password meets or exceeds the set score threshold.

If so as determined at step the new password is stored at step and the user notified at step . Storing and notification may be the same or similar as steps and in .

As a result the service provider is able to better analyze the strength of a proposed password for a new account or for a preexisting account. A stronger password provides the user with additional security so that fraudsters are less likely to guess the user s password and provides benefits to the service provider such as less unauthorized access to the service provider site and a stronger reputation of a secure site.

Note that the above description focuses on a user submitted a proposed password to be checked by the service provider. However in other embodiments the checked password does not need to be a proposed password. Rather the checked password may be one submitted by the user as part of a login or authentication process i.e. the checked password is the currently used user password. Thus using techniques described herein a service provider may check a user s current password for strength.

Furthermore in other embodiments when a password existing or proposed is determined to be weak i.e. having a score less than a predetermined score threshold that password may be flagged or otherwise noted in the system. The service provider can use this information to take action such as notifying the user of a weak password and requesting a new password to be submitted or inform the user that the password had already been previously submitted and was unacceptable.

User device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser or mobile Internet app configured to view information available over the Internet. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate passwords and other information with the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider as further described herein. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services for user . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by user of user device by various means such as online offline mobile etc.

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with user during a transaction to track and manage purchases made by users and allow the user to access and manage the user s account.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from a user device and or a merchant device not shown for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing a payment. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary including determining a password for a new or existing account.

Computer system or device includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. for a user to enter a password. An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals such as a spoken password. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a service provider server via a network. In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component Logic may be encoded in a non transitory computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

