---

title: Medium and method for interactive seamless branching and/or telescopic advertising
abstract: A method is described for playing stored continuous play content having a temporal flow. At least one segment of the continuous play content is associated with a plurality of links to other segments. The method includes playing at least one segment with temporal flow, determining whether a content expansion is desired, linking to and playing the expansion, if desired, or linking to and playing a continuing segment if the expansion is not desired. The method includes an additional link from the expansion to the continuing segment of the first segment such that the continuing segment is played after the expansion segment has been played. Other teachings include methods for playing stored content, for capturing and playing content, for capturing segment and linkage descriptions, storage mechanisms referencing the continuous play content and linkages and apparatuses for capturing and playing such content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185379&OS=09185379&RS=09185379
owner: MONKEYmedia, Inc.
number: 09185379
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 941 830 filed on 8 Nov. 2010 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 122 143 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 978 966 filed on 30 Oct. 2007 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 890 648 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 603 581 filed on 24 Jun. 2003 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 467 218 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 107 945 filed on 26 Mar. 2002 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 615 270 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 298 336 filed on 23 Apr. 1999 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 393 158 

This invention pertains to the storage and interactive playing of segmented continuous play media sequences and more particularly to digitally stored interactive multimedia content.

Continuous play media multimedia can be defined as minimally containing a stream of image or text content forming a perceived continuity when presented to an observer user. Continuous play media may further contain content streams forming perceived audio continuities when presented to an observer user. Continuous play media may further contain other content streams including but not limited to closed captioned support for the acoustically impaired or closed captioned presentation of dialogue in one or more alternative languages.

Image content streams as used herein will include but not be limited to motion video streams as well as streams of text moving with regards to the displayed view available to the user observer. Programs may generate these image streams where the displayed view is altered in a manner rendered essentially continuous. Implementation environments for such generating programs include but are not limited to language environments for C C Java Lingo by Macromedia as well as various low level machine independent and or machine dependent assembly languages. Examples of such implementations include but are not limited to motion picture preambles and postambles often incorporating still images textual credits and copyrights often further accompanied by music with a motion background or moving text providing a sense of continuity to the user observer. Such image content streams may be further accompanied by acoustic effects which augment and in some cases establish the sense of continuity experienced by the user observer.

Contemporary technology has driven down the cost of storing continuous play media allowing the recording of large amounts of audio video content onto a compact disk or DVD disk by a growing number of people businesses and institutions. Continuous play media recordings and the playing of such recordings began in large numbers with the video tape players and their successors Video Cassette Recorders VCRs . Such technologies could record and play one to several hours of television grade audio video content. The user could control the player to rewind fast forward pause stop and start at a given moment in the recorded presentation. Many of these units could record material usually received from a television signal as well as play pre recorded material. Standard implementations of this technology record or play only one multi media stream at a time without multiplexing schemes supporting multiple simultaneous streams.

More recently digital continuous play media technologies based upon image compression techniques such as QuickTime by Apple MPEG 1 MPEG 2 and DVD have become quite popular. Such technologies are typically used to create a single long playing sequence such as a motion picture documentary or training session. User controls for playing such recordings are very similar to earlier controls found on video tape players and VCRs. All of these prior methods of playing and storing continuous play media have a limitation in presenting complex subjects namely that there presentation is flat there is no way for the user observer to alter the stream to delve into a topic as a contiguous part of the stream.

The Internet and World Wide Web have accelerated the proliferation of hypertext documents. Hypertext possesses highlighted triggers embedded into a viewed document which when selected cause the document viewer to display a different view of either the same document or a different document. There is a back button on most hypertext viewing systems which when pushed causes the view to return to the previous view. These hypertext documents are rapidly creating a new class of interactive documents allowing a much higher level of complexity to be traversed by readers of greatly varying backgrounds. People may follow many of the hypertext links or few of the hypertext links depending upon their preferences. However the approach of hypertext is not continuous play media it does not create audio visual streams but screens of text and pictures primarily which only move when the user observer urges them to move. When a hypertext document references a continuous play media file such as a QuickTime file it is loaded and played with controls much as a VCR possesses.

Television long one of the dominant cultural forces in image content presentation has reached a difficult impasse. Television in the United States is largely supported by revenues from advertising. The Internet threatens such revenues. The reason is that many perceive the Internet as a better basis for advertising because people who are interested in a product can find out what they want to know about the product as they wish to find it out via hyper links. Today s television advertising is constrained to present sound bites of very short duration possessing no ability for the potential customer to direct an inquiry into facts they wish to know. Instead television today forces repeated transmission of the same limited amount of information never getting beyond the simplest of messages concerning a product. What is needed is a method by which an advertiser s purchased bandwidth can be more efficiently utilized to permit potential customers to query a larger cross section of information about the products advertised while insuring that the basic product pitch is seen.

Relevant prior art display devices are also widely varied in form and specifics of operation. Relevant prior art display devices may present black and white or color images. Relevant prior art display devices may support either a vector or raster format. Relevant prior art display devices may present images in either a 2 D 3 D or multi dimensional presentation view or collection of views.

Relevant embodiments of selector device include but are not limited to contemporary television channel selectors home entertainment center remote controls computer pointing devices including but not limited to 3 D and 2 D mouse style pointers pen tablets track balls touch pads key pads and joysticks. As illustrated in the selector device communicates via physical transport mechanism with an interface housed in enclosure . Relevant physical transport mechanisms include but are not limited to infra red micro wave and other similar wireless transport layers as well as wires and optical fiber. The mechanism by which communication is carried out based upon the specific physical transport mechanism employed is not relevant to this invention and will not be discussed for that reason. Additional IO devices such as printers and keyboards may be attached to various relevant prior art systems. Keyboards may house touch pads and mouse sticks which in certain cases are the relevant selector device of that system.

Relevant prior art display devices may present black and white or color images in either a vector or raster format representing images in either a 2 D 3 D or multi dimensional presentation view or collection of views. Relevant display data transport includes but is not limited to NTSC PAL or various HDTV television protocols of either analog or digital formats as well as digital and analog RGB and various flat panel display interface protocols as are often used with computer displays. Many systems today possess a specialized display controller which often incorporates one or more temporary frame buffers and MPEG decoding acceleration technology as well as acceleration technology for a variety of graphics operation. The communication mechanism by which these units interact with the rest of an exemplary prior art system include but are not limited to microcomputer busses such as PCI and AGP as well as dedicated communication paths represented within line .

The selector device selector device communication mechanism and selector interface have been discussed above. The communication between the selector interface and the rest of the system is denoted by arrow . Embodiments of arrow include but are not limited to addressable interfaces on computer busses including but not limited to ISA PCI and USB.

Relevant prior art speakers communicate with audio generator via arrow . Arrow designates communication mechanisms including but not limited to analog signing or digital signaling. Arrow communications may be physically transported by wireline technology including but not limited to twisted wire pairs and coaxial cabling as well as wireless technology including but not limited to short range radio and infra red mechanisms. Audio generator may perform decoding functions such as translation of encoded MPEG audio streams delivered by arrow from the overall internal communications network possibly from the player controller or external interface or display controller . Power amplification of the audio signals may be done either by audio generator within the speakers or involve both. Embodiments of the audio generator interface to the internal communications network include but are not limited to addressable interfaces on computer busses including but not limited to ISA PCI and USB.

Relevant prior art content player communicates with content controller via arrow . Content player embodiments include but are not limited to optical disk players and electromagnetic disk players of either a removable or non removable media. These content players embodiments further include but are not limited to CD ROM MPEG and DVD players. Such content player embodiments may further include the ability to write to the storage media as well as play the storage media. Relevant player controller embodiments include but are not limited to various SCSI controllers specialized optical disk controllers specialized hard disk controllers and RAID disk array controllers. Player controller embodiments may further include but are hot limited to various continuous play media compression decoders MPEG decoders and DVD decoders. Relevant prior art communications mechanisms include but are not limited to various SCSI RAID ISA and EISA interfaces.

Relevant prior art player controllers often but not always partition a continuous play media stream received via from content player into an audio stream and a video stream. The audio stream is sent via communication path arrows to to to audio generator to drive speakers . This communication path may be incorporated into an overall bus protocol or be a separate signal path depending upon the specific implementation. The video stream would be sent via communication path arrows to to to display controller to drive display . The actual decoding of the video stream is often done primarily in display controller but in certain instances digital processor and player controller may contribute to the video decoding process. There are also situations in which relevant prior art systems employ display controller to partition a continuous play media stream into separate one or more audio streams and at least one video stream. Such systems include many set top box architectures.

Note that in relevant prior art systems there may be more than one content player with potentially distinct player controllers and communication paths . One content player might support a writeable CD ROM using a SCSI based controller as well as a second DVD ROM player with its own cabling and player controller .

Another relevant source of continuous play media content is provided via external content communicating with external interface via arrow . One relevant external interface is a radio frequency RF tuner. Relevant RF timers include but are not limited to demodulators and or modulators for various broadcast protocols such as Frequency Modulation FM Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA various spread spectrum protocols Wavelength Division Multiple Access and wavelet division multiple access. Relevant spread spectrum protocols further include but are not limited to Direct Sequence Frequency Hopping Time Hopping and Wideband CDMA. These relevant RF tuners may be connected by wireline or wireless physical transport layers. Relevant wireline physical transports include but are limited to twisted pair coaxial cable and various optical fiber mechanisms. Relevant wireless physical transports include contemporary broadcast television High Definition TV HDTV as well as various radio frequency microwave and infra red schemes which may well incorporate an antenna sensor or array of antennas or sensors.

Another relevant external interface is a modem. Relevant modems include but are not limited to telephone line modems incorporating various transceiver rates which may not be the same for reception as for transmission as well as various DSL ADSL XDSL ISBN Ethernet Token Ring and ATM interfaces. Physical transport layer for modems include but are not limited to wire line and wireless transport layers. Wire line physical transport layers include but are not limited to telephone lines twisted pair wirelines coaxial cabling and various optical fiber technologies. Wireless transport layers include but are not limited to directional and non directional radio microwave infrared and optical schemes.

The external content may be located a substantial distance away from the enclosure . The external content is often embodied in many circumstances within a server supporting a network of user systems via interconnections of these external interfaces . Such networks may well support TCP IP thereby enabling support for the Internet. Such networks may further support one or more Intranets. Such networks may further support one or more Extranets.

Another form of external content includes video input devices. These often possess external interfaces which include video frame capturing circuitry. Such external interfaces are now including advanced image processing often further supporting MPEG compatible compression of the captured video stream.

Note that in many relevant prior art systems there is more than one kind of external content and external interface with potentially different communication paths . A desktop box might possess both a RF tuner using an antenna as well as an optical fiber interface to a cable television provider. A notebook computer might well have both a telephone line modem and an Ethernet LAN interface.

Relevant prior art digital processor embodiments include but are not limited to one or more of the following general purpose microprocessors Digital Signal Processors DSPs parallel processors embedded controllers and special purpose system controllers. General purpose microprocessors include but are not limited to various word width Complex Instruction Set Computers CISC and Reduced Instruction Set Computers RISC . DSPs include but are not limited to various word width computers employing instruction sets allowing at least one add subtract operation as well as at least one operation comparable to multiplication to be performed in a single instruction cycle. Parallel processors include but are not limited to Single Instruction Multiple Datapath SIMD Multiple Instruction Multiple Datapath MIMD and hybrid SIMD MIMD organizations of either uniform or non uniform processors. Uniform processor parallel processors employ essentially the same processor uniformly. Non uniform processor parallel processors do not employ essentially the same processor throughout. Embedded controllers often incorporate either one or more microprocessors or DSPs along with additional circuitry performing specialized data processing which may include but is not limited to MPEG stream partitioning and or decoding copy protection processing decryption authentication and block data error detection and correction. Special purpose system controllers include but are not limited to various implementations as Programmable Logic Arrays PLAs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs and Application Specific Standard Products ASSPs .

Relevant prior art digital processors often possess local memory resources in the form of RAM and nonvolatile memory interfaced via busses and . The RAM may include but is not limited to various forms of RAM and brie or more caching banks of RAM. Relevant prior art digital processor embodiments may include but are not limited to one or more of memory caches physically proximate to and possibly contained within the digital processor package or packages. Memory caching may include but is not limited to separate caching of memory and data. Memory caching may further include but is not limited to multiple layers of cache structures. Distinct processors within the digital processor may further possess distinct caches as well as further localized memory which may in turn include RAM and or nonvolatile memory. Relevant prior art nonvolatile memory may include but is not limited to boot ROMs and flash memory circuits which may further emulate disk drives with a form of file management system. Such nonvolatile memory embodiments may be used to initialize the system as well as provide security and accounting information or store content.

From the user perspective relevant prior art systems play continuous play media content recordings much as did predecessor VCR systems. They can start at the beginning or partially through a sequence and progress forward pausing stopping and possibly rewinding. Internet access has allowed hypertext based web sites to provide hot keys supporting the downloading and playing of continuous play media sequences but again once downloaded the continuous play media sequence playing controls are essentially those found on a VCR. Modern television particularly cable and satellite broadcast television possesses a fairly large number of channels often over a hundred to be multiplexed and modulated at the broadcast site and demodulated at the customer user site into these separate channels. The signal protocols in common use deserve some discussion. These relevant prior art television channels tend to employ an MPEG continuous play media stream with an audio stream and a video stream component.

Consider first what happens in the video stream. MPEG video compression mechanisms utilize an initializing video frame compressed in a manner similar to a still frame followed by motion compensation data essentially transforming this initial frame into a succession of subsequent motion frames. Every so often a new initializing frame is sent followed by motion compensation data again transforming the new initial frame into a new sequence of subsequent motion frames. The compression ratios compared to the raw data are impressive often a reduction in data size of 200 to 1 can be achieved without noticeable loss of visual clarity. This compression ratio enables this large number of channels to be cost effectively broadcast by satellite and cable television companies.

Consider what happens when someone changes television channels. The MPEG stream of the new channel is isolated and demodulated from the television broadband transmission into a video stream and an audio stream. The video stream is scanned until the next initializing video frame is encountered. Once encountered the MPEG video decoder initializes its output stream and motion video frames follow shortly from this initialization frame. These initialization frames occur frequently enough that there is a barely noticeable delay between when one turns to a new channel and the channel s video stream is being displayed. If at this point the channel is again changed a short time later there is another initialization video frame observed the motion frame sequencing begins again. However there is no mechanism to compensate for or retain whatever has transpired on the original channel. Once these motion frame sequences have passed by they are gone.

The audio streams also possess an initialization structure which is asserted from time to time followed by the time varying incremental audio stream modifications. While the audio and video frames do not necessarily initialize simultaneously there are synchronization controls between them to facilitate time aligning them to each other. Taken collectively there is a certain rationale in considering contemporary continuous play media to be segmented. The block coding used in both transmission and storage of digital continuous play media reinforces the sense of segmentation of continuous play media into short sequences of motion frames video stream and the associated audio stream. However there are no embedded cues within these streams to indicate expansion possibilities or to direct such expansions or direct the return to provide continuity with the original stream segments.

What is needed is a method of playing and storing a segmented continuous play media stream which expands and contracts the viewing material based upon the user observer s and or system agent s selections.

One aspect of the invention is implemented as a method for playing a stored content providing a plurality of segments which collectively contains the stored content. Each of the segments has a first terminus and a second terminus where the content in each of the segments has a temporal flow from the first terminus to the second terminus. At least one segment is associated with a plurality of links to a corresponding plurality of other segments.

The method includes playing at least one segment with the temporal flow determining whether a content expansion is desired prior to reaching the second terminus. If the content expansion is desired then linking to an expansion segment and playing the expansion segment. If the content expansion is not desired then linking to a continuing segment and playing the continuing segment. The method includes an additional link from the expansion segment to the continuing segment such that the continuing segment is played after the expansion segment has been played.

This method is advantageous in providing the user and content provider with a much greater degree of freedom in traversing the content provided. Topics can be expanded upon user request. The individual who wants to know about the gas mileage of an automobile shown in a commercial may find out about it whereas someone interested in the safety features can delve into that while the advertiser is assured that the basic advertising pitch will be presented in a cinematic fashion.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for playing a stored content providing a plurality of segments which collectively comprise the stored content. Each of the segments has a first terminus and a second terminus and a continuity link associated with a member of the collection of a segment indicator and a non segment indicator. Content in each of the segments has a temporal flow from the first terminus to the second terminus. At least one segment is associated with a plurality of expansion links to a corresponding plurality of other of the segments.

The method of playing includes Playing the at least one segment with the temporal flow. Determining whether a content expansion is desired prior to reaching the second terminus. If the content expansion is desired then linking to an expansion segment pushing the continuity link onto a link stack and playing the expansion segment. If the content expansion is not desired and if the continuity link indicates the continuing segment then linking to a continuing segment and playing the continuing segment.

This method is advantageous in providing the user and content provider with a much greater degree of freedom in traversing the content provided. Topics can be expanded upon user request. The individual who wants to know about the gas mileage of an automobile shown in a commercial may find out about it whereas someone interested in the safety features can delve into that while the advertiser is assured that the basic advertising pitch will be presented in a cinematic fashion.

This method is further advantageous in providing the ability to share an expansion segment or collection of nested expansion segments in more than one segment designating the same expansion segment. Such segments capable of being shared as expansion segments are indicated by continuity segment links indicating a non segment.

Another aspect of the invention includes a storage device for a segmented continuous play media stream containing at least three segments. Each segment contains a first terminus and a second terminus. The segmented continuous play media stream within each segment progresses from the first terminus to the second terminus.

At least one segment of the storage device contains a plurality of links to a corresponding plurality of other segments further comprising a continuation link and at least one expansion link. A cue is associated with each of the expansion links. Each cue may be stored in the containing segment substantially before the segmented continuous play media stream progresses to the second terminus of the containing segment. The segmented continuous play media stream of the containing segment progresses to the first terminus of the corresponding continuation link segment after progress to the containing segment second terminus. The segmented continuous play media stream of the containing segment progresses to the first terminus of the corresponding expansion link segment after progress to the containing segment second terminus.

Such a storage device is advantageous for providing segmented continuous play media which may by played by the above methods which provide a much greater degree of freedom in traversing the stored content topics can be expanded upon user request. The individual who wants to know about the gas mileage of an automobile shown in commercial may find out about it whereas someone interested in the safety features can delve into that while the advertiser is assured that the basic advertising pitch will be traversed in a cinematic fashion.

Another aspect of the invention includes a storage mechanism referencing a continuous play media stream segment store containing a collection of at least three segment descriptors and a collection of at least one expansion link element.

Each of the segment descriptors of the storage mechanism contains a first terminus a second terminus and a continuity link. The first terminus referencing a first time point of a continuous play media stream segment contained in the continuous play media stream segment store. The second terminus referencing a second time point of the continuous play media stream segment contained in the continuous play media stream segment store. The continuity link represents one of a collection containing an indicator of another of the segment descriptors and an indicator to a non segment.

Each of the expansion link elements of the storage mechanism contains an expansion segment indicator an expansion cue indicator and an indicator of another of the expansion link elements or of a non expansion link element. Each of the segment descriptors further contains an indicator of an expansion link element.

Such a storage mechanism is advantageous for providing segmented continuous play media which may by played by the above methods which provide a much greater degree of freedom in traversing the stored content. Topics can be expanded upon user request. The individual who wants to know about the gas mileage of an automobile shown in a commercial may find out about it whereas someone interested in the safety features can delve into that while the advertiser is assured that the basic advertising pitch will be traversed in a cinematic fashion.

Such a storage mechanism is further advantageous in supporting more than one mechanism whereby alternative traversal of a common continuous play media library is provided. One traversal of a television soap opera library may focus on character evolution whereas another may focus on family relationships and another on adulterous relationships. Such traversals would reference the common continuous play media library but establish at least partially divergent expansions.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for capturing and playing a continuous content including capturing a plurality of segments playing at least one stored content segment determining whether a content expansion is desired linking to other segments and playing other segments.

The method includes capturing of at least one continuous play media stream collectively contains the continuous content providing corresponding stored content segments each having a first terminus and a second terminus where the content has a temporal flow from the first terminus to the second terminus. At least one segment is associated with a plurality of links to a corresponding plurality of the other segments.

The method further includes playing the stored content segment with temporal flow and determining whether a content expansion is desired prior to reaching the second terminus. If the content expansion is desired then linking to an expansion segment and playing the expansion segment of stored content. If the content expansion is not desired then linking to a continuing segment of stored content and playing the continuing segment of stored content. There is an additional link from the expansion segment of stored content to the continuing segment of stored content such that the continuing segment of stored content is played after the expansion segment of stored content has been played.

This method advantageously provides for the capturing of a continuous play media stream content and playing of that content. Different users can play and expand the content based upon their individual choices. By way of example a viewer of a sporting event may chose to expand recent performances of a team or team member whereas another viewer may chose to examine recent news and interviews with a coach or team manager.

A further advantage of this method is the ability for selected advertising to gain in depth rather than just repeat or rotate the same prespecified commercial content with no added informational depth on demand. This supports a smarter use of advertising content providing advertisers with the ability to build up information content with a kinesthetic interface to expand and examine selected details otherwise unavailable through a media such as television as it is known today.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method of capturing references to a continuous play media stream segment store including capturing a collection of at least three segment descriptors and capturing a collection of at least one expansion link elements.

Each of the segment descriptors of the method includes a first terminus a second terminus and a continuity link. The first terminus references a first time point of a continuous play media stream segment contained in the continuous play media stream segment store. The second terminus references a second time point of the continuous play media stream segment contained in the continuous play media stream segment store. The continuity link represents one of a collection including an indicator of another of the segment descriptors and an indicator to a non segment.

Each of the expansion link elements of this method includes an expansion segment indicator an expansion cue indicator and an indicator of either an indicator of another of the expansion link elements and an indicator of a non expansion link element. Each of the segment descriptors further includes one of the indicators of one of the expansion link element.

This method advantageously provides for the capture of references to a continuous play media stream segment store supporting differing expansion services. In a sporting event expansion service one service may support recent sporting performances another might incorporate performance statistics and a third might support recent interviews and expert commentary related to specific players or teams.

Another aspect of the invention includes an apparatus to store and play a continuous play media stream including an external interface circuit a writeable content store a digital controller a display circuit and a selector circuit. The external interface circuit receives at least one continuous play media stream segment. The writeable content store is coupled to the external interface circuit by which the segments of the received continuous play media stream may be transferred and stored. The digital controller is coupled to the external interface circuit and is coupled to the writeable content store. The digital controller further contains a link segment association table. The display circuit is coupled to the digital controller. The display circuit is further coupled to the writeable content store. The selector circuit is coupled to the digital controller sending selector data to the digital controller.

The digital controller of the apparatus controls the writeable content the display circuit to transfer the stored continuous play media stream segment to the display circuit based upon the selector data received by the digital controller and the link segment association table. The digital controller further controls the display circuit to play the transferred continuous play media stream segment by the display circuit based upon the selector data received by the digital controller and the link segment association table.

The apparatus has the advantage of being able to capture a live stream and perform content expansions without losing the live content. This apparatus provides the necessary architectural capabilities to archive continuous stream segments locally to build a continuous play media store.

Another advantage of this apparatus is the minimal network overhead to maintain and extend a continuous play media store for an ongoing series of performances such as sporting events episodes of a television series news reports and interviews with celebrities and experts.

A further advantage of this apparatus is the ability for selected advertising to gain in depth rather than just repeat the same commercial content with no added informational depth. This apparatus supports a smarter use of advertising content providing advertisers with the ability to build up information content on interested users local writeable content store with a kinesthetic interface to expand and examine selected details otherwise unavailable through a media such as television as it is known today.

These and other advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon reading the following detailed descriptions and studying the various figures of the drawings.

In certain embodiments the container is not interactively accessible. Container in such embodiments may move or be manipulated only as shown in the continuous play media stream. Objects inserted into and or removed from such containers may be highlighted to indicate possible selection for expansion. By way of example a person interviewed may pull something from their handbag and it may be highlighted for possible expansion. In certain further preferred embodiments the user may select the expansion. In other further preferred embodiments the expansion selection may be automated.

Arrow designates an iterative point in the method leading to the execution of operation . Operation designates playing a content having a temporal flow starting at one point in time and progressing to a later point in time a segment of continuous play media. Operation designates determining whether additional content has been indicated. Arrow is followed when additional content has not been indicated leading to execution of operation . Operation designates playing the continuing content having the temporal flow without appreciable delay. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention this entails a recursive execution of the operations starting at . Arrow leads to the execution of operation which determines if this method is done. If operation determines that the method is not done arrow direct the execution to arrow which in turn leads to execution of operation as discussed above. If operation determines that the operations are done arrow leads to the end where any necessary housekeeping type functions such as closing files releasing allocated system resources and the like may be performed to end the operations.

If operation determines that additional expansion content should be played arrow directs execution to operation . Operation designates playing expansion contents having the temporal flow without appreciable delay. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention this entails a recursive execution of the operations starting at . Arrow directs execution to arrow which directs execution to operation which plays continuing content having the temporal flow without appreciable delay. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention this entails a recursive execution of the operations starting at .

Note further that shows expansion links and respectively pointing to termini and which all share a common segment and possess a common second terminus .

In certain preferred embodiments of the invention terminus acts as the second terminus of a segment with first terminus as well as terminus acting as the first terminus for a segment with second terminus . Terminus can further act as the first terminus of a segment with second terminus . Terminus can act as the first terminus of a segment with second terminus . In certain alternative embodiments of the invention there are multiple expansion points and successively arranged between the first terminus and second terminus of the segment.

In certain situations there may be many expansion links within a relatively short frame sequence. Such situations may be implemented as an additional kind of expansion link possessing multiple decision points where expansion to other segments may be performed. These decisions may be as frequent as once per frame in certain embodiments. The referenced expansion segments may vary for each expansion decision point in certain further preferred embodiments. The first and or second terminus of these referenced expansion segments may vary linearly with the frame and or temporal distance from the starting expansion decision point in certain further preferred embodiments. In certain preferred embodiments one or both of the termini may grow earlier or later temporally with regards to the continuous play content.

Note further that shows expansion links and respectively pointing to termini and which all share a common segment and possess a common second terminus . Note that expansion decision point possesses two expansion links and expansion point possesses two expansion links and and expansion point possesses two expansion links and .

In certain preferred embodiments of the invention terminus acts as the second terminus of a segment with first terminus as well as terminus acting as the first terminus for a segment with second terminus . Terminus can further act as the first terminus of a segment with second terminus . Terminus can act as the first terminus of a segment with second terminus . In certain alternative embodiments of the invention there are multiple expansion points and successively arranged between the first terminus and second terminus of the segment.

The user choices in certain preferred embodiments may be automated to be performed under the user s direction which may be further given at a substantially earlier time. An alternative preferred embodiment of the invention automates the expansion selection mechanism at the behest of the editor or producer of the content. A further preferred embodiment of the invention automates the expansion mechanism based upon system knowledge of the user. By way example expansion content for a seven year girl may be substantially different than expansion content for a forty five year old architect.

The second terminus of segment directs playing to continue at the first terminus of segment . Note that continuing to play at segment can be caused by either an explicit reference to segment or by use of a link stack and a continuity link for segment indicating a non segment as discussed with .

The second terminus of segment directs playing to continue at the first terminus of segment via link . Premature contraction point is temporally located after the first terminus of segment and before the second terminus of segment . Premature contraction point has one link . The user can select link which acts to skip the content between contraction point and the second terminus of segment and continue playing segment . Note that continuing to play at segment can be caused by either an explicit reference to segment or by use of a link stack and a continuity link for segment indicating a non segment as discussed with .

In certain preferred embodiments of the invention this chart uses a notation in which number of timing relation relationships can be derived. Two frame sequences may be temporally abutting such as sequence and sequence where the second terminus of frame sequence and the first terminus of sequence are essentially temporally adjacent to each other. Frame sequences and display a temporal gap where the second terminus of frame sequence occurs a perceptible time before the first terminus of frame sequence occurs.

Frame sequence is nested within frame sequence where the first terminus of frame sequence occurs at the same time or before the first terminus of and the second terminus of frame sequence occurs at the same time or before the second terminus of frame sequence . Frame sequences and share simultaneous starting times where each frame sequence s first terminus occurs at essentially the same time. Frame sequences and share simultaneous ending times where each frame sequence s second terminus occurs at essentially the same time.

Frame sequences and overlap where the first terminus of the first frame sequence occurs before the first terminus of the second frame sequence and the second terminus of the second frame sequence occurs after the second terminus of the first frame sequence .

Frame sequence spans frames sequences and in that the first terminus of frame sequence occurs before the second terminus of frame sequence and the second terminus of frame sequence occurs after the first terminus of frame sequence . Another example of spanning frame sequences and could also include a segment starting at and ending at in certain preferred embodiments of the invention. Such a segment would have a first terminus occurring before the second terminus of frame sequence and the second terminus of frame sequence occurs after the first terminus of frame sequence .

In certain preferred embodiments of the invention the end product of the segmentation design process is presentation upon a broadcast media where bandwidth and local user content storage constraints may necessitate organizing priorities for transmission and storage of the edited content. To this end and by way of example consider the following additional structural elements where the frame sequences are organized into horizontal rows for certain further preferred embodiments of the invention.

Frame sequence is the top level of the presentation. This is the basic material which the designer wishes the users observers to traverse. In a documentary setting this is the basic information. In a fictional setting such as a soap opera drama or comedy this is the basic episodic presentation. In an advertising setting this is the basic pitch material often limited to 20 to 30 seconds in duration which is currently transmitted repetitiously many times with no additional content. In sports settings this is the athletic event with commercials and intermission events which possess no ability for the users observers to focus the presentation upon their specific interests. This is the entirety of what can be presented today.

The second horizontal layer contains a single frame sequence . Note that at this stage in the editing process no segment linkages have been determined so that while the material of is continuous it may be subsequently partitioned into more than one segment. In other circumstances frame sequence may be provided with premature contraction points. Segmentation and premature contraction points can be advantageously placed in an advertising setting within say the sporting event presentation to allow the users to return to the sporting event when the action on the field resumes by way of example. Note that in certain preferred embodiments the second row may represent the preceding episode of a fictional historical or documentary series. In certain other preferred embodiments the second row might be the second highest priority information documenting a product or service in an advertisement.

The third horizontal layer contains frame sequences and . In certain circumstances these frame sequences may represent frame sequences from a previous episode which remain relevant for instance where the advertisers have stopped supporting a series the removed frame sequences may be their previous advertisements. In certain other preferred embodiments the content of the previous episode may have been rendered irrelevant by subsequent events and therefore no longer relevant to be stored. In certain other preferred embodiments of the invention each layer has lower priority for transmission and or storage so that in various embodiments the content of a layer may either be given a lower bandwidth budget or local user storage budget. Many of the compression technologies in use and under development support what is known as progressive encoding which permits the allocation of varying amounts of bandwidth and or storage for specific segments or in the case layers of segments.

The fourth horizontal layer contains frame sequences and . In certain circumstances these frame sequences may represent frame sequences from a previous episode which remain relevant for instance where the advertisers have stopped supporting a series the removed frame sequences may be their previous advertisements. In certain other preferred embodiments the content of the previous episode may have been rendered irrelevant by subsequent events and therefore no longer relevant to be stored.

The fifth horizontal layer includes one frame sequence . This may represent an archival frame sequence where the primary characters were introduced in certain preferred embodiments of the invention. This may also an archival frame sequence where the current dominant plot in a soap opera was introduced in certain preferred embodiments of the invention. In certain other preferred embodiments of the invention this may represent an overview to an advertiser s product line.

In certain alternative preferred embodiments of the invention continuous play stream is the jaw continuous play stream such the footage of interview athletic event or soap opera by way of example. Segments and all reference the same raw footage. Segment is a subsequence of sequence where the person being interviewed may discuss a specific handbag that they own. In sequence the subject is showing their wallet. In sequence the subject discusses how they acquired the wallet. In sequence the subject demonstrates one of the contents of the handbag such as a concert ticket. In sequence the subject tells a story inspired by one of the contents of the handbag such as the concert ticket discussed in sequence . In sequence subject sings a song from the concert as told in sequence . It should be noted that other annotations could be derived by other editors.

The storage of the raw content need only be done once. The segment descriptions represent a very amount of data compared to the continuous play streams they reference. One second of MPEG 2 audio video content is typically between one half to one megabyte. Each segment referencing that content would typically take less than a few hundred bytes in many preferred embodiments of the invention and might well reference many seconds of content. The separation of segment description tables from the storage of continuous play content is thus advantageous in certain preferred embodiment of the invention. The segment description tables may thus be supplied separately from the raw continuous play media stream in certain other preferred embodiments.

A cue definition in certain preferred embodiment of the invention defines how an expansion link is selected. In certain further preferred embodiments of the invention the cue definition further defines a discernible entity displayed within the segment which may be selected to indicate selection of the associated expansion link. In certain further preferred embodiments of the invention the cue definition may further indicate highlighting the discernible entity.

Arrow directs execution to operation . Operation performs beginning fetch of multimedia segment fetching expansion link list playing multimedia segment and optionally highlighting expansion cue. In certain preferred embodiments beginning fetch of multimedia segment entails initiating an access to a multimedia store. Once such an initiation has begun the data will be transferred by the access of the multimedia store for an extended length of time. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention the fetching of the expansion link list occurs concurrently with the beginning of fetching the multimedia segment. In certain preferred embodiments once the fetching of the multimedia segment has begun playing the multimedia segment starts. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention optional highlighting of expansion cues starts when the fetch of multimedia segment has begun and the fetching of the expansion link list is completed and the playing of the multimedia segment starts.

Operation further plays a multimedia segment highlighting optional expansion cues. Note that expansion cues may include but are not limited to a user numerically selecting the player number and team in a team sport in certain preferred embodiments. In certain other preferred embodiments a user may select a discernible entity. In certain further preferred embodiments the display may highlight one or more of the discernible entity cues.

Arrow directs execution to start operation which determines whether an expansion cue has been selected. Note that arrow must do this before operation has completed playing the current continuous play segment in certain preferred embodiments of the invention. In certain further preferred embodiments of the invention the arrow schedules operation at least a predetermined time interval before the completion of playing the multimedia segment.

If an expansion cue has not been selected arrow directs execution to operation which determines whether the continuity link of the segment indicates a non segment. If the continuity link indicates a segment the current segment is set to the continuity link segment by operation and execution is directed by arrows and to operation which fetches the segment descriptor and iterating the operations described above. If the continuity link indicates a non segment execution is directed to operation which determines if the link stack is empty. If the link stack is empty execution is directed to operation halting the playing of the multimedia segment at the second terminus of the segment. If the link stack is not empty execution is directed to operation which determines if the link stack has been fully processed. Operation will be described in detail in the discussion of below. If operation determines that the link stack has been fully processed execution is directed to halt the playing of the multimedia segment at the second terminus. If operation determines that the link stack has not been fully processed execution is directed by arrows and to iterate the above described operations starting at operation .

If the top of the link stack is a segment execution is directed to operation which pops the link stack segment into segment which is the next segment to be played. Execution is then directed to operation which returns a NO.

If the top of the link stack is not a segment execution is directed to operation which removes the top of the link stack. Execution is then directed to operation which determines if the link stack is non empty. If the link stack is empty execution is directed to operation which returns YES. If the link stack is not empty arrows and direct execution to operation iterating upon the operations described above.

Row depicts the state of the content player while playing segment . The play segment is segment . The continuity segment of play segment is designated by arrow pointing to segment in . The expansion link list of the current play segment is designated by arrow to segment in followed by a null pointer. The link stack is empty while playing the current play segment.

Row depicts the state of the content player while playing the expansion segment . The play segment is segment . The continuity segment of play segment is designated by arrow pointing to non segment in in certain preferred embodiments. The expansion link list of the current play segment designates no segments in . The link stack contains a link designated by arrow to segment while playing the current play segment.

Row depicts the state of the content player while playing the continuity segment . The play segment is segment . The continuity segment of play segment is designated by arrow pointing to non segment in in certain preferred embodiments. The expansion link list of the current play segment designates no segments in . The link stack is empty while playing the current play segment.

Digital controller includes a link segment association table . The link segment association table in certain embodiments is constructed in a manner compatible with the discussion of B and C above. Note that in certain preferred embodiments the link segment association table contains the segment description and link descriptions relevant to the segment currently playing. In certain further preferred embodiments the link segment association table further contains the segment description and link descriptions relevant to the continuing segment of the current playing segment. In certain other preferred embodiments the link segment association table further contains the segment description and link descriptions relevant to an expansion segment which may be or has been selected during the playing of the current segment. In certain other preferred embodiments the link segment association table may further contain the segment description and link descriptions relevant to the top element of the link stack.

Digital controller embodiments include but are not limited to one or more of the following general purpose microprocessors DSPs parallel processors embedded controllers and special purpose system controllers. General purpose microprocessors include but are not limited to various word width CISC and RISC. DSPs include but are not limited to various word width computers employing instruction sets allowing at least one add subtract operation as well as at least one operation comparable to multiplication to be performed in a single instruction cycle. Parallel processor include but are not limited to SIMD MIMD and hybrid SIMD MIMD organizations of either uniform or non uniform processors.

Digital controller embodiments further include but are not limited to one or more microprocessors or DSPs along with additional circuitry performing specialized data processing. Digital controller embodiments may further include but are not limited to capabilities for MPEG stream partitioning and or decoding copy protection processing decryption authentication and block data error detection and correction. Digital controller embodiments may further include but are not limited to various implementations as PLAs CPLDs FPGAs ASICs and ASSPs.

Digital controller embodiments may further include local memory resources in the form of RAM and nonvolatile memory and may further include but is not limited to various forms of RAM and one or more caching banks of RAM. Digital controller embodiments of the invention may further include but are not limited to one or more of memory caches physically proximate to and possibly contained within the digital controller embodiments package or packages. Memory caching may include but is not limited to separate caching of memory and data. Memory caching may further include but is not limited to multiple layers of cache structures. Distinct processors within the digital controller embodiments of the invention may further possess distinct caches as well as further localized memory which may in turn include RAM and or nonvolatile memory. Digital controller embodiments of the invention nonvolatile memory may further include but is not limited to boot ROMs and flash memory circuits which may further emulate disk drives with a form of file management system.

The external interface circuit is coupled to digital controller as shown by arrow . One external interface circuit embodiment of the invention incorporates a RF tuner including but not limited to demodulators and or modulators for various broadcast protocols such as FM FDMA TDMA various spread spectrum protocols Wavelength Division Multiple Access and wavelet division multiple access. Embodiments of external interface circuit RF tuners may employ wireline or wireless physical transport layers. Embodiments of external interface circuit wireline physical transports include but are limited to twisted pair coaxial cable and various optical fiber mechanisms. Embodiments of external interface circuit wireless physical transports include but are not limited to contemporary broadcast television HDTV as well as various radio frequency microwave and infra red schemes which may well incorporate an antenna sensor or array of antennas or sensors.

Certain preferred embodiments of external interface circuit include but are not limited to modems. Embodiments of external interface circuit modems include but are not limited to telephone line modems incorporating various transceiver rates which may not be the same for reception as for transmission as well as various DSL ADSL XDSL ISBN Ethernet Token Ring and ATM interfaces. Embodiments of external interface circuit modem physical transport layers include but are not limited to wireline and wireless transport layers. Embodiments of external interface circuit modem wire line physical transport layers include but are not limited to telephone lines twisted pair wire lines coaxial cabling and various optical fiber technologies. Embodiments of external interface circuit modem wireless transport layers include but are not limited to directional and non directional radio microwave infrared and optical schemes.

Embodiments of external interface circuit may access external content located at a substantial distance often embodied within a server supporting a network of user systems via interconnections embodiments of external interface circuit . Such networks may further support TCP IP thereby enabling support for the Internet. Such networks may further support one or more Intranets. Such networks may further support one or more Extranets.

Embodiments of external interface circuit may include but are not limited to video input devices often possessing external interfaces including video frame capturing circuitry. Embodiments of external interface circuit may further include image processing circuitry further supporting MPEG compatible compression of the captured video stream.

Coupling can be implemented as a set of connections directly between external interface circuit and digital controller in certain preferred embodiments of the invention. This coupling can also be implemented as a shared set of connections with other circuitry in other preferred embodiments of the invention. Further preferred embodiments include effecting these couplings as transactions on the shared set of connections. Further preferred embodiments of the invention include these shared connections forming a bus possessing a bus protocol. Further preferred embodiments of the invention include the bus supporting a digital bus protocol. Other preferred embodiments of the invention include the bus supporting and encoded digital signaling within an essentially analog protocol including but not limited to protocols such as Firewire P1394 and other optical fiber communications protocols.

The external interface circuit is also coupled to writeable content store as shown by arrow . Coupling may be effected by a dedicated interconnection in certain preferred embodiments of the invention. Coupling may be further effected by a shared interconnection with other couplings such as coupling in certain further preferred embodiments.

The writeable content store is coupled to digital controller as shown by arrow . This coupling in certain preferred embodiment of the invention may be a direct interface to digital controller as a collection of electrical connections to electrical contacts between the package of digital controller and writeable content store . In certain other preferred embodiments of the invention the coupling may be effected by a high speed communications line including but not limited to Fiber Channel or ATM SONET between digital controller and writeable content store .

The writeable content store is coupled to display circuit as shown by arrow . This coupling in certain preferred embodiments of the invention may be a direct interface between display circuit and writeable content store . In certain other preferred embodiments of the invention the coupling may be effected by a high speed communications line including but not limited to Fiber Channel or ATM SONET between display circuit and writeable content store .

Display circuit is coupled to digital controller as shown by arrow . This coupling in certain preferred embodiments of the invention may be a direct interface between display circuit and writeable content store . In certain other preferred embodiments of the invention the coupling may be effected by a high speed communications line including but hot limited to Fiber Channel or ATM SONET between display circuit and writeable content store .

Display circuit embodiments may further include but are hot limited to capabilities for MPEG stream partitioning and or decoding copy protection processing decryption authentication and block data error detection and correction.

Selector circuit is coupled to digital controller by arrow . This coupling in certain preferred embodiments of the invention may be a direct interface between display circuit and writeable content store . In certain other preferred embodiments of the invention the coupling may be effected by a communications line protocol including but not limited to RS 232 USB or RS 485 between display circuit and writeable content store .

Note that in certain preferred embodiments of the invention display circuit includes but is not limited to format translation capabilities. In further preferred embodiments of the invention the format translation capabilities further include and are not limited to MPEG stream decompression capabilities. In other further preferred embodiments of the invention the format translation capabilities include wavelet algorithmic decompression capabilities. In other further preferred embodiments of the invention the format translation capabilities include fractal algorithm decompression capabilities. Further preferred embodiments of the invention include but are hot limited to 3 D displays as well as multiple perspective displays of higher dimensional continuous content.

Note that further preferred embodiments include but are not limited to audio presentation circuitry. Further preferred embodiments include but are not limited to force feedback tactile interfaces.

The digital controller includes a link segment association table as in . Note that in certain preferred embodiments the link segment association table contains the segment description and link descriptions relevant to the segment currently playing. In certain further preferred embodiments the link segment association table further contains the segment description and link descriptions relevant the continuing segment of the current playing segment. In certain other preferred embodiments the link segment association table further contains the segment description and link descriptions relevant to an expansion segment which may be selected during the playing of the current segment. In certain other preferred embodiments the link segment association table may further contain the segment description and link descriptions relevant to the top element of the link stack.

The digital controller further includes a format translator . In certain preferred embodiments of the invention format translator supports translation of one or more MPEG compression formats. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention format translator supports translation of one or more formats incorporating wavelet compression algorithms. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention format translator supports translation of one or more formats incorporating fractal compression algorithms.

The coupling of external interface circuit digital controller writeable content store selector circuit and second external interface circuit is effected by a bus with each of these entities being accessible for bus transactions as indicated by arrows and respectively.

In certain preferred embodiments a compressed MPEG stream may be the standard format protocol by which continuous play content is received transferred and stored. Such a compressed stream can be readily handled by bus implemented as an inexpensive computer bus such as ISA. Such a bus implementation can also readily handle the control and feedback transactions between the external interface circuit digital controller writeable content store selector circuit and second external interface circuit . An alternative bus implementation includes but is not limited to PCI bus implementations.

Display circuit is coupled to digital controller by a bus . Bus is advantageous in certain preferred embodiments to handle the bandwidth of uncompressed frame data to the display circuit which for an exemplary compression technology such as MPEG can often be greater than a factor of more compressed stream bandwidth. Specific preferred embodiments of bus include but are not limited to PCI bus implementations. Alternative specific preferred embodiments of bus include but are not limited to AGP bus implementations. Further preferred embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to 3 D displays as well as multiple perspective displays of higher dimensional continuous content.

In certain preferred embodiments of the invention digital controller may be packaged as a single package or as a single multi chip module or as a tightly coupled chip set. In certain further preferred embodiments of the invention bus has an internal bridged version bus which directly interfaces to format translator . This is advantageous when line drive and or transmission line noise issues become dominant to name one circumstance by way of example. In certain alternative embodiments bus and bus form a single contiguous bus.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

