---

title: Computer implemented method and system for annotating a contract
abstract: A system, method, and medium supports analyzing intellectual property documents by linking and annotating patents, copyrights, trademarks, license agreements, and other intellectual property documents. It can be used by intellectual property professionals in memorializing thought processes, work products, and reasoning, in preliminary or final form, and can support development and use of a rich linked set representing complex relationships in an intellectual property portfolio. Optionally, marked up, linked documents are divided into data streams; one contains the original document for mark-up, and one contains annotation data. The marked-up document may be further revised and/or annotated even by multiple users. The same document such as a patent may be centrally stored but independently marked-up by different users (or groups of users). The system extracts from a marked-up document annotation data with any changes, and provides one or more data streams, containing the annotation data for storage and or later use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569436&OS=09569436&RS=09569436
owner: 
number: 09569436
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120913
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 725 531 filed Dec. 3 2003 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 891 478 filed Oct. 14 2004 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 692 793 filed Oct. 27 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 229 273 filed Aug. 28 2002 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 315 021 filed Aug. 28 2001 all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to computer related and or assisted systems methods and computer program devices for supporting the interactive analysis and or management of intellectual property documents by legal and technical personnel. More particularly it relates to methods and systems for providing for annotating an intellectual property document and or relating traversing reporting and or viewing linked documents document elements digital data and or individual elements therein. Annotations may contain e.g. informative text user defined categories and attributes and or analyses of conformance with or violation of related intellectual property rights owned or licensed by a company or its competitors etc. thereby enriching the functionality and knowledge base of an intellectual property owner concerning the intellectual property owned by it and or another.

Many corporations are focusing on their intellectual property assets as being quite valuable. Hence these companies strive to develop large intellectual property portfolios and indeed spend time and money on these assets. There is a concomitant pressure to leverage and or better manage these portfolios of intellectual property assets. As a result a great deal of emphasis has been placed on better ways to analyze the value of a portfolio better processes for managing the portfolio and better strategies for creating opportunities to extract value from the portfolio.

While these management techniques have resulted in more efficient use of attorney resources and more targeted intellectual property filings and funding relatively little has been done to take advantage of current computational technologies the integration of data resources largely through the Internet and better knowledge based software systems to handle aspects of intellectual property. As a result no process or product exists for handling the full range of intellectual property functions in an automated manner.

Accordingly there exists a need in the market for a comprehensive system that incorporates tools that will give the intellectual property professional the ability to work in all aspects of their practice area using automated analysis tools to prepare them in their practice.

Moreover many corporations have a wide range of intellectual property assets but no technique to make associations between assets. For example a particular license may implicate several patents. Conventional systems do not support the association of the intellectual property assets and they certainly do not support a memorialized explanation of the association. Even if a user is able to determine a few related intellectual property assets the problem of determining associated intellectual property assets grows geometrically more complex with the number of intellectual property assets.

Accordingly we have determined that the complexities affecting the analysis use accessing researching presenting etc. of intellectual property and related information make it extremely difficult for a customer to integrate information in various scenarios. We have determined that a customer might want to determine e.g. which patents or other intellectual property documents are implicated by and or related to for example a license for a particular product. We have further determined that a customer might want to ascertain the intellectual property documents that are related on multiple levels optionally including details relating to the relationships. Further a customer might desire to annotate one or more intellectual property documents. There exists a profound need for such a method and or system.

We therefore propose to provide inter alia methods and or computer systems that will allow intellectual property documents and information to be associated annotated and or linked including e.g. the ability to mark up as electronic representing of a document edit the document note relations between documents map and or traverse document relations and or manage multiple versions of the document and or mark ups.

Consequently the present invention alleviates the deficiencies of conventional techniques described above. Aspects of the present invention provide for the significant improvement of the management of intellectual property by for example enabling personnel to document the associations between various intellectual properties and related documents of a company its partners and or competitors and or provide important annotations capturing their conclusions from analyzing those associations.

By way of example a clause within a sublicense agreement may reference a paragraph within an original license agreement a spreadsheet containing royalty payment schedules a copyright registration and or a photograph of the cover of a book. Furthermore a clause within the sublicense may have textual annotations explanations etc. containing comments by attorneys and or corporate management emphasizing specific aspects of importance about the related item. Another example is a product specification referencing an individual claim of a patent specific paragraphs of a license agreement a registered trademark a product web page on the Internet and or a link to a product drawing file. The reference to the patent claim may contain e.g. a conformance analysis of why the product does not violate a competitor s patent and or a comment identifying how a key competitive feature of the product is protected by the patent.

One or more embodiments of the present invention may be capable of various configurations to adapt to user needs. For example in one or more embodiments it may be used in conjunction with a customer site with a single server containing all data for use by a small number of simultaneously connected users. Alternatively one or more embodiments may be set up for use in conjunction with a multi server distributed environment for user e.g. by a large number of simultaneously connected uses at a large corporate use site. In another embodiment the invention supports users connected to an Internet backbone as part of a licensed service.

One or more embodiments of the present invention may provide for readily navigating and or annotating intellectual property documents.

One or more embodiments of the present invention optionally allow a user to download a set of related documents for example to work offline while disconnected from the server and to reconnect and synchronize changes with a server.

In accordance with the present invention there are provided methods systems and at least one computer readable medium for providing a grouping optionally linked of annotated electronic documents having mark ups to be applied to the documents. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a document annotating system includes an annotation component to determine responsive to at least one user at least one annotation to be applied to at least one document including a selection resource to select at least a portion of the at least one document and to associate the at least one annotation therewith and a mark up resource to at least one of add and edit the at least one annotation. Further one or more embodiments of the present invention includes a reference component responsive to the at least one user to at least one of establish traverse indicate and remove at least one reference between the at least one portion and at least one of an other portion of the at least one document an other document and at least one other portion of the other document.

Optionally the present invention includes a view component to select the at least one portion and to edit responsive to the at least one user the at least one portion.

Optionally the present invention includes at least one merge component to associate document data representative of the at least one document and annotation data representative of the at least one annotation to be applied to the at least one document and to provide a marked up representation of the at least one document the marked up representation having the document data and the annotation data. Further according to one or more embodiments of the present invention the document data includes at least one element corresponding to a location of the at least one annotation within the document. Optionally the merge component is responsive to at least one of the marked up representation the document data and the annotation data.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention at least one of the marked up representation the document data and the annotation data is at least one of XML format binary format image data and audio data.

Optionally the present invention provides for at least one split component responsive to the marked up representation to extract the annotation data and the document data from the marked up representation.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the at least one annotation indicates an evaluation of at least one legal property relative to the at least one document.

Optionally the present invention further includes at least one version component to at least one of manage a history of changes and maintain a separate version for the at least one document and the at least one annotation applied thereto.

Optionally the present invention further includes at least one schema to identify at least one tag in at least one of the at least one portion the at least one document and the at least one annotation.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention there is provided at least one storage medium wherein at least two of the at least one annotation the at least one document and the at least one reference are at least one of stored logically separate in the at least one storage medium and stored physically separate in two storage mediums including the at least one storage medium. Optionally the at least one annotation and the at least one reference are embedded in the at least one document.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide for the at least one annotation being associated with the at least one user the at least one document being accessible by the multiple users including the at least one user and wherein access to the at least one annotation applied to the at least one document is limited to the at least one user associated with the at least one annotation.

Optionally the at least one annotation includes at least one of a pre defined notation a user provided text a user defined attribute a reference to a URL and a reference to an other file.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the at least one document is representative of at least one of a patent document a trademark document a copyright document a product description document a license document a sui generis protection document a design registration document a trade secret document and an opinion document.

Optionally the present invention includes one or more of a report component responsive to a user to provide a report having a summary of a multiple portions in the at least one document and the at least one annotation a map component responsive to the user having a summary of the at least one document the at least one annotation and the at least one reference and at least one display component having a display of at least one of i the at least one document and the at least one annotation and ii the other document.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the at least one document is an intellectual property document and the grouping is provided in an intellectual property environment.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provides a method system and at least one computer readable medium for providing a grouping optionally linked of annotated electronic documents in an intellectual property environment an intellectual property document annotating system. Accordingly one or more embodiments of the present invention provide at least one merge component to associate document data representative of at least one document and annotation data representative of at least annotation to be applied to the at least one document the document data including at least one element corresponding to a location of the at least one annotation within the document and to provide a marked up representation of the at least one document the marked up representation having the document data and the annotation data at least one split component responsive to the marked up representation to extract the annotation data and the document data from the marked up representation and optional version control logic to at least one of manage a history of changes and to maintain a separate version for the document data and the annotation data applied thereto.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the annotation merge logic and the annotation split logic are responsive to at least one of the marked up representation the document data and the annotation data.

Optionally at least one of the marked up representation the document data and the annotation data is at least one of XML format binary format image data and audio data.

Optionally the present invention further includes a schema to identify at least one element having a tag and logic to determine tags for at least one of the document data the annotation data and the marked up representation.

One or more embodiments of the present invention former provide for storage for the annotation data separate from storage for the document data.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the annotation data includes at least one of a user selected standard notation a user provided text a user defined attribute and at least one reference to at least one of an element in the document an element in an other document a URL and an other file.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the document data is representative of at least one of a patent document a trademark document a copyright document a product description document a license document a sui generis protection document a design registration document a trade secret document and an opinion document.

Optionally the present invention further includes at least one of a report tool to provide a report having a summary of elements and corresponding annotation data of the marked up representation an annotation tool to provide annotation data for the marked up representation including a selection resource to select at least one element of the document data to be annotated and a mark up resource to at least one of add and edit annotation data corresponding to the at least one selected element an edit tool responsive to a user to select the at least one element and to edit the at least one selected element including a first indication of the at least one selected element and a second indication of the at least one annotation data a reference tool to indicate at least one reference between the at least one element and at least an other element of at least one intellectual property document and to enable the at least one reference to be traversed by the user and a map tool responsive to the user to summarize the marked up representation the annotation data and the at least one reference corresponding to at least one element.

According to one or mow embodiments of the present invention there is provided a computer architecture system method and computer readable medium for retrieving and storing a plurality of electronic documents and a annotations to be applied to the documents the documents to be accessed by multiple users the annotations to be accessed by at least a portion of the users. Accordingly there is provided at least one storage portion to store at least one document and at least one annotation associated therewith at least one server to determine respective locations of the documents including the at least one document and the annotations including the at least one annotation and at least one manager to determine a location of the at least one document and at least one annotation to be applied thereto stored in the at least one storage portion and to at least one of retrieve from and store in via the at least one server the at least one document and the at least one annotation to be applied thereto in the at least one storage portion and to provide the at least one document with the at least one annotation applied thereto.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provides for the at least one annotation being associated with the at least one user the at least one document being accessible by the users including the at least one user and wherein access to the at least one annotation applied to the at least one document is limited to the at least one user associated with the at least one annotation.

Optionally the at least one manager determines if the at least one document is read only to not store a further copy of the at least one document.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further provide for a version control to maintain at least one separate version of the at least one document and the at least one annotation.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide for at least one analyzer to at least one of manage traverse search view report and edit via the at least one manager the at least one document and the at least one annotation associated therewith.

Optionally the at least one manager associates at least one reference with at least one of the at least one document and the at least one annotation the at least one reference being to at least one of an element in the document an element in an other document a URL and a file.

Optionally at least one of the marked up representation the document data and the annotation data is at least one of XML format binary format image data and audio data.

Optionally the at least one annotation indicates an evaluation of at least one legal property relative to the at least one document.

Optionally the at least one annotation includes at least one of a pre defined notation a user provided text a user defined attribute a reference to a URL and a reference to an other file.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the at least one document is representative of at least one of a patent document a trademark document a copyright document a product description document a license document a sui generic protection document a design registration document a trade secret document and an opinion document.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention there is provided a method system and computer readable medium for annotating electronic documents in an intellectual property environment including providing at least one document determining at least one section of the at least one document to be annotated determining at least one annotation to be applied to the at least one section associating the at least one annotation with the at least one section and storing the storing the at least one annotation for later retrieval wherein the annotation is stored separately from the at least one document.

Optionally the present invention provides that determining the at least one section includes at least one of i indicating responsive to the user a scope of the at least one section and selecting the at least one section ii selecting responsive to the user the at least one section from a plurality of pre determined sections and iii automatically or semi automatically pre determining a scope of the at least one section and automatically manually or semi automatically selecting the at least one section.

Optionally determining the at least one annotation includes at least one of i selecting at least one pre defined notation ii receiving input text ii selecting at least one user defined attribute iv receiving a reference to a URL and v receiving a reference to a file.

The present invention optionally provides for preliminarily determining a plurality of user defined attributes including the at least one attribute.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further provide for storing the at least one document for later retrieval.

Optionally the present invention provides for maintaining a separate version for the at least one annotation and the at least one document.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the at least one annotation is associated with at least one user the at least one document being accessible by the plurality of users including the at least one user and access to the at least one annotation is limited for example to the at least one user associated with the at least one annotation.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the at least one document is representative of at least one of a patent document a trademark document a copyright document a product description document a license document a sui generic protection document a design registration document a trade secret document and an opinion document. Optionally the at least one annotation indicates an evaluation of at least one legal property relative to tile at least one document.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are of course additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.

In this respect before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important therefore that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Further the purpose of the forgoing abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The abstract is neither intended to define the invention of rise application which is measured by the claims nor is it intended to be limiting as to the scope of the invention in any way. These together with other objects of the invention along with the various features of novelty that characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure. For a better understanding of the invention its operating advantages and the specific objects attained by its uses reference should be had to the accompanying drawings and descriptive matter in which there is illustrated preferred embodiments of the invention.

The following detailed description includes many specific details. The inclusion of such details is for the purpose of illustration only and should not be understood to limit the invention. Throughout this discussion similar elements are referred to by similar numbers in the various figures for ease of reference. In addition features in one embodiment may be combined with features in other embodiments of the invention.

Intellectual property information regarding intellectual property documents by a customer intellectual property service provider government entity or other source has been collected. Likely such information is extracted and deposited into one or more databases. Ultimately at least a portion of such intellectual property information is presented to an end user on behalf of a customer such as via an intellectual property application which may be executing locally or via a web site over the World Wide Web i.e. the Internet. For ease of description such a collection of information will be referred to herein as database although it should be recognized that the information might collected in other formats as well and that an intellectual property application might not be restricted to data stored in a database.

The association between selected intellectual property information is realized and optionally annotated. The annotation enables users to annotate images and text in intellectual property such as e.g. patent drawings. Those annotations are saved and optionally categorized. For example annotated drawings or images are saved in the context of projects in order that notes and other thoughts of the user are memorialized and tied to a project.

A system design for use in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in may advantageously comprise a number of interconnected components. Each component may focus on a specific task and advantageously provides and or utilizes as Application Programming Interface API to communicate with other components within the system according to the illustrated realization of one example system. Components may include for example one or more data servers a data manager one or more analyzer views a management console and or a watch agent . Components and or functions thereof may be omitted replaced subdivided and or combined and still remain within the scope of the invention. The data servers provide access to the data representing the intellectual property documents the data analyzer provides user interfaces to obtain analyze and or traverse intellectual property documents and the data manager breaks down documents into storable units and builds up documents for the user interfaces.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention scalability may be provided by the logical and or physical separation of data server functionality from the data manager . For example the data manager may reside with one or more data server on e.g. a single machine storing all patent licensing and annotation data. As one of many alternatives the data manager may connect to multiple data servers each running on a separate machine and each storing only a portion of the data.

According to one or more optional realizations of the present invention offline storage and or operation may be provided for example by a document manager discussed below which stores some or all working data locally on the user s machine and or by API functionality to retrieve and store documents from the data manager .

Optionally there may be provided one or more data servers amongst which the data server functions may be divided. In the present example several data servers are provided. Optionally a multiple data server format may house one or more sets of related information. In this illustration one data server might contain the entire United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO database and or one data server might contain multiple databases. According to one example alternative the related information in this case the USPTO database may be spread over multiple data servers . According to a convenient realization for example one data server may contain only the patents ending in 1 another server might contain patents ending in 2 a third might contain patents ending in 3 and so on according to this example there are 10 servers across which is distributed preferably in a logical manner preferably the entire USPTO database. By distributing the data servers and functions one or more embodiments of the present invention may provide for a scalable solution for storing generalized data used by the system.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data may be stored in its original format. Alternatively it may be reformatted at some point or points prior to storage. The format for the data that the USPTO currently provides data for patents is XML a mark up language which is fairly similar to HTML. XML is a generalized syntax for creating a document structure and tags unlike HTML which has predefined tags. XML essentially leaves the meaning of those tags to the developer of the dialect. In this case the USPTO has defined the individual tags that exist within this language and the meaning tag of each. The system may use the syntax as provided by one or more patent trademark offices government and or commercial data providers or optionally the syntax may be converted e.g. into one or more standard formats. In the illustrated example the USPTO patent database both text XML and image data is distributed across three data servers and

Similarly one or more embodiments of tire present invention may accommodate other data and or other formats e.g. an XML schema for license agreements. Such a schema for a license agreement may accommodate e.g. typical usual optional and or advanced elements that are available within the license agreement e.g. a preamble definition section individual definitions paragraphs clauses sections articles etc. In the illustrated example license documents are stored on the data server .

As illustrated in the example of each data server in a multi data server embodiment within the system may contain all a subset and or a portion of the information that is available to the user. Data server stores. In the present example license data copyright data and trademark data These databases are likely to be much smaller than the USPTO patent database. Hence a single server may store more than one type of data. Optionally non USPTO data is included.

According to the illustrated example data server stores annotation data discussed below e.g. having annotations corresponding to some of the patents and or licenses. The annotation data may include e.g. electronic mark ups that attorneys or other users would make e.g. in connection with a document. Further in this example data servers through store the patent text and image data of the USPTO patent database or a portion thereof .

The optional data manager may pull together the data feat may be distributed across one or more servers. The data manager advantageously provides a single cohesive and comprehensive management of a given database. The data manager according to one or more embodiments of the present invention provides for the seamless distribution coordination and searching of documents e.g. XML or merging of annotation data e.g. XML and image data across one or more data servers. It optionally may support caching of search requests and or results and or replication of data to and or from remote servers.

Reference is made to providing one or more example embodiments of the data manager architecture. The data manager may provide an object API having services to receive requests and transmit information to from the data analyzer e.g. to insert update delete and or request document data e.g. XML data. The object API may have and or retrieve binary data such as for images and or sound for example. XML data requests may be further processed within the data manager and if appropriate passed to a data server binary requests may be passed on through to the underlying data server .

Consider for example that documents are provided in XML format and that annotations for each document are provided as annotation data entities therein. When an XML data insertion or update occurs the XML data is first parsed by an XML parser . This parser maybe driven by a mark up schema which identifies XML tags within the document for annotation data entities and the relationship of the XML tags to the document data entities. The annotation data entities are extracted from the XML document. They may be used to create an annotation XML data stream. The remainder of the XML data that is the potentially revised document without the annotations may be used to create a document XML data stream.

Where multiple data servers are provided an optional connection manager may be provided to identify which data server s stores the data at issue if distributed e.g. the document data the annotation data and or the image data such as by maintaining a mapping. Image data may be stored on the same data server as the document data or may be stored elsewhere.

Continuing with the above example of XML documents when an XML request occurs the data manager retrieves the document XML data and the annotation XML data from their respective one or more data servers. It then parses both these XML data streams with one or more XML parsers . Using the mark up schema it embeds the annotations from the annotation XML data within the corresponding tagged elements of the document XML data and with annotation merge logic merges both streams into a single XML document.

When a search request occurs search and result merge logic optionally looks up each keyword in the one or more thesauri of the data server s and any match is added to a search keyword list. The search request may contain a list of searchable fields appropriate to the documents being searched e.g. Abstract Inventor Claims etc. for patents and or the scope of the search e.g. Patent Copyright Annotation etc. . The search is then executed on the relevant Data Servers the results are collected and they are returned to the caller. Search results optionally may be returned from the data server in partial result groupings such as of a specified fixed size this permits the data manager to satisfy a search request quickly while deferring much of the processing overhead for result fetching until actually needed.

If a user is browsing back and forth through a number of items returned from a search it is likely that they will request the same document repeatedly within a short period of time. An optional cache manager maintains a mapping of client search requests to search results. If a request is repeated while the result is cached the result may be returned from an Image and XML cache through the cache manager instead of generating a new data server search request.

When the optional change notification event is received from a data server it is passed in to the change notification handler then through to the object API . It may be passed to an optional replication service which maintains a list of registered downstream data managers. One or more data managers may be registered for replication of information as identified e.g. by data server and item type and will be notified of such changes. A notified data server may request the information. The replication service maintains a queuing of notifications for those registered data managers that are unreachable or are flagged for queuing. The optional change notification event may provide the basis for a subscription service in order to provide customers with updated latest patent and trademark information. The optional change notification event and replication service may be used for enabling a system to distribute to multiple data servers even if distributed around the world while maintaining synchronization between them. The optional change notification event may be provided to the cache manager which may be used to enable it to flush an image and XML cache of outdated items.

Reference is made hack to . According to one or more embodiments of the present invention an optional search engine locates stored documents by performing searches on phrases and or individual words. For example the search engine interface may provide a column for proceeding word and another for following word. As a further example to access intellectual property patent data when doing a search a search request may result in a hit to ail three of the Data Servers in parallel. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data manager is responsible for coordinating among the distributed Data Servers where multiple data servers have potentially relevant data and for being aware of the range of specific data on each data server. If a search request is received the data manager may broadcast that request to ail of the relevant data servers three in the illustrated example receive the search request results returned from those data servers and then merge the results back together again and create a single common results set. The advantage of distributing a search is that one may speed up the search average out the effect of multiple users and or numerous requests being received and load level the users working with an individual patent and its image data. The data manager thus provides an optional second logical level where it pulls together the content of the data servers and or provides among other things a view into a company s intellectual property database.

An optional third logical level is the data analyzer . The data analyzer performs inter alia formatting of information into a representation that is user friendly so that a user may read and or edit. The data analyzer may include prompting the user for annotations for accepting annotation data for displaying data for creating reports for creating a document map which demonstrates the relationships of one set of information to another etc.

Reference is made to illustrating several example windows and open within a user interface according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. One or more aspects of the present invention assist in working with relationships between documents and or portions thereof.

The user interfaces to the intellectual property documents are optionally enabled by the data analyzer illustrated in FIG. . Reference is made to . In this example the license in the editing window correlates to the editing view . A report window demonstrates the report view a map window demonstrates the map view and a mark up window represents the annotation view .

Reference is now made to . The user in this example has retrieved an intellectual property document to edit and or annotate e.g. a license into an editing window . One or more aspects of the present invention provide that the user may logically subdivide that document into sections. Those sections may then be related to sections within that or another document. The relationship between one document and another and or between one section in one document and a section in another document or the document itself may be annotated. The annotation allows a user e.g. an attorney who is analyzing this information to indicate within a document for example an issue the result of an analysis how this portion of this document relates to that portion of that document etc.

Referring again to the intellectual property document in this example the license is displayed in the editing window . The editing window presently displays that portion of the document encompassing Article Section . which in the example is entitled Trade Secret License. In one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more active portions e.g. Trade Secret License may be outlined and or highlighted such as in red on the screen in order to indicate that this is an active portion of the document being viewed. A further indication e.g. a special highlight or color e.g. optionally may be used to indicate that there is an annotation associated therewith e.g. a possible conformance issue or a failed conflict.

By way of example of a possible use of one aspect of the invention if a user is performing e.g. evaluation of a license against a patent or a product against a patent for each of the claims in the patent the user may be viewing parts of the license and the claims one at a time and indicating that a certain aspect of this product license or document fails to conform to some aspect of this patent claim. The user may select one of several standard notations reflecting for example a standard system provided relation and or a super user customized attribute concerning the respective documents e.g. that a product or license etc is in violation of this patent claim or may be in violation of this patent claim or is not in violation of this patent claim. The user may wish to add other text annotations references to other documents or URL s or files etc. to the document being viewed. Those thoughts however they may be phrased or indicated are important to capture. An attorney or other user going through an intellectual property document such as a patent may indicate that a product license etc. does not violate this patent claims etc. because of annotated reasons or indicate the need to look into this further and or indicate the need for a second opinion or any other indication as desired. Multiple users may each provide separate annotations.

The attorney or other user may review edit and or annotate an agreement or other intellectual property document in the editing window for example by selecting a section or traverse the document section by section. The document may be subdivided previously currently and or subsequently into sections automatically e.g. within the XML format manually and or semi manually. In the present example beginning e.g. with Section . the user may select a portion of the document in the editing window to add an annotation or mark up data.

Reference is now made to showing an example mark up window to interact with the user to obtain annotations. The mark up window pops up in response to a user indication that he wishes to annotate a document or portion thereof . In the present example the user may select one or more type of pre defined notations e.g. conformance view notes view a history of changes to this section and or view some user defined attributes and or categories or links to images or web pages etc.

In the illustrated example Harvey Wallenbarger is the user and selects Section . in the editing window shows in . In response to the selection the system obtains the user s annotation via the mark up window . In the mark up window in conflicts under the conformance tab the user selects possible indicating that there is a possible conformance violation the user may alternatively or in addition type in text comments e.g. to memorialize concerns about the possible conformance violation. By selecting at the top of the mark up window one or more embodiments of the present invention includes a drop down list box or chooser that provides a mechanism for choosing a related intellectual property document for example one of several documents that the user may be working with thereby relating the section and or its annotation to a section of another or the same intellectual property document. In the illustrated example the user notes a relationship between the annotated license section . to a section of another intellectual property document.

Optionally the other document or other section of the same document is displayed in an optional further editing window shown in . Optionally a selected section of the related document is highlighted.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention annotation is realized as a manually driven approach. For example a user goes through a document one item at a time and performs an annotation. The process of annotating is preferably a manually driven process for several reasons. For example one person may use the term cup but another person may choose to use the designation a liquid containing dispensing container for the same object. To create an automated mapping between those two designations may be possible using for example a thesaurus where the user may add synonyms that expand the scope of the search etc. Nevertheless to be able to parse out the complex language that tends to appear in intellectual property documents and to be able to accurately perform an analysis against similarly complex wording by a completely different person is may be better done manually or semi automatically.

Reference is now made to . One or more embodiments of the present invention optionally provide for a report window . The report window provides a summary of the mark ups to e.g. the selected document. In this example the report window includes a summary of mark ups including a count of sections and types of mark ups. Optionally each section and sub section also is summarized. A section or subsection summary optionally includes a mark up summary with e.g. the standard notation type any reference s author date and or other annotation data. The present example indicates that one or more users has reviewed this license or other document checked it against a particular document or documents and summarized some or all of the mark up data and associated portions of the document that have been annotated.

The optional map window illustrated in provides a map of the sections of the mark up document and the related intellectual property documents noted in annotations. In the present example the map window includes a visual representation of each document section and a summary of each related document noted in a mark up. A map line indicates a relation between document sections and subsections and a connection is indicated between documents and sections subsections.

Other components plug ins reports and or tools may be provided to view search edit annotate link and or mark up intellectual property documents in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. The view and window functionality for example may be combined omitted and or replaced and or implemented in an alternative user interface in alternative embodiments of the present invention.

Reference is again made to . The mark up data optionally is stored logically and or electronically embedded within the original document e.g. as an annotation. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the system may host most or all of the databases on web servers for use by any of a large number of users. According to one or more embodiment of the present invention annotated documents are stored e.g. locally and or remotely. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention intellectual property documents are linked to annotations and the documents are shared.

If the users are unaffiliated with each other however it would be undesirable to have these unrelated users accessing e.g. the same patent marking it up and physically embedding additional information therein. It would not be suitable to make that information available to all of those users. Consequently according to one or more embodiments of the present invention the mark up data is maintained so that the separate and or unrelated users are protected from disclosure to each other. Accordingly the mark up data optionally is separately maintained from the document data and is correlated to a user and or group of users.

Further the mark up data preferably is seamlessly associated with the document Information and according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is preferably presented to the user as a unitary document. Despite the unitary appearance when the user is finished working on this document the document and mark up information optionally is broken into components optionally each being stored in the appropriate and or separate storage. Optionally the document and mark ups are stored together.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention there are provided two or more streams of data corresponding respectively to the mark up s and the documents . These data streams are merged together into a single document and that merged document is presented to the user and or worked on as a single logical document. When that work is complete or the user otherwise is done then the document is split up into two or more different streams corresponding to the mark up s and the documents . Preferably the document is in XML format but could be in other formats.

Reference is made again to a block diagram for one or more embodiments of a data manager also showing communications to from a data server and to from a data analyzer . The data manager may in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention provide for splitting and merging annotations and documents. In the illustration of a document with annotations is split into data streams via annotation split and merged into an annotated document via annotation merge . Consider an example data flow through the data manager an XML request from the data analyzer communications is received by an object API . The XML request indicates a particular XML intellectual property document optionally with annotations to be retrieved e.g. to be accessed by the data analyzer. The request is received by annotation merge component in the data manager . The data manager determines that it needs to obtain one or more XML document corresponding to the document data for the intellectual property document and also one or more XML document corresponding to the annotation data. The annotation merge component issues a request to retrieve these two or more documents. Consider feat one of these for illustration purposes is a patent document and the other is annotation data marking up the patent. The annotation data includes within the set of its information an association between one or more individual annotations and. the location of the item or section within the patent document the entity that the annotation refers to for example specific claims in a patent. So if as in this example the user has annotated a particular claim in the specified patent then the annotation includes a reference corresponding to the identifier for the entity corresponding to that claim. There area number of ways by which an entity within a document could be uniquely identified e.g. offset from document start logical division etc. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the annotation merge component processes document data and annotation data e.g. with an XML parser identifies the one or more entities within the document with a particular annotation extracts the annotation e.g. as an XML mark up fragment and embeds the annotation within the section of the document e.g. an XML section for the referenced entity within the document.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention there are provided two or more different documents one containing annotations and the other containing the document both including a respective series of entities. The annotation document s is broken up into the individual entities the documents are parsed and it is determined where the annotation entities go in the document and the document is fattened into a marked up document. The fattened mark up document is then returned to the data analyzer as the document in the proper format e.g. XML via data analyzer communication .

The data analyzer then may at that point work with the mark up document as if it is a single document. That the marked up document originated from two or three or more different sources according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is transparent to the data analyzer. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data analyzer receives processes and or acts on the marked up document as a unitary document and when done returns it as a unitary document. Optionally the data analyzer works with the document encompassing more than one file e.g. separate document and annotation data multiple files for document sections etc.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data manager includes one or more annotation split components optionally driven by a mark up schema . The mark up schema identifies which types of entities belong in a document e.g. a patent and which types of entities belong in an annotation. In scanning through the mark up or expanded document the system may identify the one or more entities mat are an annotation entity. The schema identifies the annotation entities such as in XML. Further the system can identify that a particular annotation entity is related to a particular parent document or entity within a parent document and may obtain the unique identifier for that parent associated back with the annotation entity. It may then start building a new annotation document. So in this way the system then supports the collapsing of the expanded mark up document from the analyzer back into its normal form extracting the annotations building another annotation document and then inserting data for the annotation and or document back into the Data Server.

In the case of a patent for example the original document may be marked as read only so the user cannot edit the original document. Optionally the annotation split logic determines whether the document is read only thereby avoiding the need to examine edits to the original document e.g. the original patent document. Consequently for a read only document the annotation split logic may review the mark up document to extract the annotation information.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example block diagram of one potential embodiment of the data server . According to one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more data servers retrieve store documents and or annotation data. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the intellectual property documents are stored separately from the annotation data. If desired stored documents may be further subdivided e.g. by intellectual property type e.g. patent license trademark or file format e.g. XML .TIFF .DOC 

Each data server may advantageously provide an object API which inter alia receives communications to from a data manager to insert update delete and or request data in a format appropriate to the document s annotation and or image data e.g. XML. Hence where documents and annotations are stored as e.g. XML formatted data streams the data server may act as a repository for document and or annotation data.

When an XML data insertion or update occurs the XML data advantageously may he stored within an XML repository e.g. as a new revision of the document. The data server receives the document or documents for storage e.g. through as XML update request. An XML update request is received through the object API and is optionally sent to a data versioning manager to handle version updates.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention revisions may be managed by a data versioning manager . For example when a data request occurs the specified data may be retrieved from the data versioning manager the default optionally being to retrieve the latest changes however a prior version may be specified within the data request. The changed document for example the annotation document is inserted into e.g. a data versioning manager to accomplish version control. There are several appropriate varieties of commercially available version control software. A version control program generally compares the revised document against the prior copy makes a list of the changes and associates a new revision with those changes. Optionally upon changing or updating a document a change notification may be initiated for use by other processes.

The object API may provide for services e.g. to insert update delete and or retrieve binary data such as for images . Such binary data advantageously may be managed by the data versioning manager and optionally a new revision may be created on update. The binary data type may be stored advantageously with the binary data when inserted or updated e.g. in image data files . The various standard image types e.g. JPEG GIF TIFF etc optionally may be known to the system as predefined data types. Optionally if an image is requested in a different known format than it is stored conversion to the requested format may be performed e.g. during retrieval the may be done advantageously by one or more format converters .

One of the other aspects of the optional version control system is that it is possible to label a particular version as having a given name. The label then readily allows the system to associate a version of the annotation data with a version of the document data. The annotations and the document may be changing at different rates. One or more embodiments of the present invention provide the ability to create an associated name with a revision and the version control allows the system to then associate the various into version streams that are changing at different rates.

The document being edited and or marked up e.g. a license agreement may be changing at a very rapid rate initially but then those versions may slow down as the license matures. Conversely the annotations may start to grow rapidly or there may be a period when a company is working with a particular sub licensing arrangement where those changes are occurring rapidly as well. The XML document received from the data analyzer is then fit into the data versioning manager . Relevant information optionally is stored into a repository and that reflects one part of the life cycle of that document.

The optional XML repository provides the data versioning manager s log file storage for change records. It may use a form of data compression feat is typically used in version control systems where storing the changes that have happened from one revision to the next of the document.

When XML data is inserted or updated in an XML document it may be parsed by an XML parser. Optionally a configuration data section may be used to identify document structure. An index schema for example may be used to identify XML tags that the XML parser uses to break up the document into major sections and a separate index may be generated e.g. by an index generator and may be maintained for each such section. During parsing the various elements of the XML data stream may be identified. Their contents further may be parsed to extract the individual words within each element. These extracted words may be compared against a table of unimportant words. If not matched in the table the word together with the unique fully qualified XML document name plus its new revision number if any are may be stored in an index SQL database . Each entry e.g. row in the table may be identified via e.g. primary key by the word the document name and the revision or in any other appropriate way. This table may contain a separate field e.g. column for each section of the XML document which may contain a count of the number of times e.g. frequency the word appears within that section. This realization may enable an index searcher to place the most likely candidates at the beginning of the search results. Other realizations are possible and will be appreciated by one of skill in the art. The data server optionally includes a thesaurus which may reference and or manage a table of synonyms to be used inter alia in broadening the field of search. Thesaurus may maintain relevant data in any appropriate form such as thesaurus SQL data .

When XML or binary data or other data is inserted updated or deleted in a document a change notification event optionally may be generated. This may be broadcast to registered listeners typically one or more data managers . The change notification event may advantageously provide underlying support for replication and or may be used for notifying a user of modifications to a document that they may be reviewing.

Reference is made to a block diagram of one embodiment of an architecture for the data analyzer . The data analyzer communicates via the data manager to one or more data servers on the backend of the system. From a user s perspective one optionally is interacting with the data analyzer via a user interface e.g. looking at a directory and or search view in order to locate edit or annotate a document. For example a user interface may present a directory as a navigable tree allowing them to see one or more data managers in connection with respective data servers. Optionally a data manager may then be responsible for presenting a relevant part of the navigable tree. Other means of displaying documents are equally appropriate e.g. the data analyzer may show a list of the patents by year issued by classification etc. An interface is provided so that the user can identify a document they want to work with. For example a user may do a search e.g. for all documents containing the term cup and be presented with a list of search results in order to access documents.

In any event the user identifies the document of interest and a request for the document is sent by the data analyzer to the version manager e.g. for the latest version. In some cases especially if the user is interested in looking at historical changes then they may want to obtain a prior version of that document. The version may be important if there is an association between the version of annotation data and the version of the document data. Optionally the system retrieves multiple versions e.g. to illustrate a particular moment in the history of that document. The XML Request may be sent as a data manager communication to a document manager and the requested XML document may be returned. The document manager reads and then stores feat document into the document workspace according to one or more embodiments of the present invention.

In the document worked on by the data analyzer the annotation data preferably is already merged with the original document data. The merged document may be optionally stored into a document workspace . The purpose of the document workspace is so that a user may remotely work on a document such as on a notebook computer not connected to a network. The data may be local in the workspace. Hence if there is a disconnect from the original data sources it is irrelevant in terms of working with the document.

When the remote user finishes edits or annotations on those one or more documents they may then check those documents back into the data server through the data analyzer and the data manager. When a document is to be worked with it may be extracted from the document workspace . Optionally the document to be worked on is broken down into elements if any. The document workspace may be for example a file in a directory or a set of directories on a disk. To break the document into elements according to one or more embodiments of the present invention the document is extracted from the document workspace and fed into the XML parser within a document object model . The document object model may be e.g. standard binary representation or object representation of XML. An annotation schema may be referred to within either the XML parser and or an XML generator for example in the process of conversion to and from the object model .

Once the XML data is broken down into an internal object representation it is possible to look at an individual element and determine e.g. what is the content of that element in terms of text name of the tag text of the entity tag name for the entity and or parent entity for it.

The merged or annotated document advantageously may be provided in XML format. The XML document is a structure with a balanced mark up tag each tag specifies a start and end of the section and inside a section there may be nested one or more start end of another section one. Each one of these start end blocks may be a node. Each entity within that becomes a sub node of a tree creating an in memory representation of the document tree that can be traversed to the parent node child node siblings etc. The XML object model then contains the document data and child nodes for each one of the paragraphs or items that have been annotated. An annotation node contains the annotation data. It contains the type of a mark up e.g. conformance link to another document textual node etc.

Optionally the user is provided one or more views in order to assist with analysis of the document. Each of the different views works with the merged document according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. The views may determine document format e.g. by a reference to a document Schema . The user selects the function he wishes to perform on a document e.g. view a report of the document view a map of the document links and mark ups view annotations and or edit the document .

Reference is made to both . The editing view and editing window illustrate one example of editing an intellectual property document here the license. The editing view examines the tree structure of the document or a nesting of levels within a document. Here there are articles at the outermost levels sections within that and perhaps each section has clauses with sub clauses. They may be broken down separately. In this case there is an article at the outer most level which is at the same level as the preamble nested within that article Grant of Licenses there is article 1.1 Trade Secret License . The entire text for Trade Secret Licenses may be contained within one node in the document object model. The Trade Secret License tag may be contained elsewhere within that node and embedded therein 1.1 Trade Secret License is a node the child node of that is the text of the paragraph etc. At mother child node of Section . there is provided a conformance mark up displayed as illustrated in in the mark up window . The data and or attributes within the conformance mark up would indicate that there is a possible conflict together with the contents of the text within that child node or within a further child node thereof. This mark up information for the illustrated conformance item may be associated with Section . as a separate node.

With regard to the illustrated Section . the user may select the node indicated as selected e.g. by a frame e.g. by a double click or click inside the frame . The view may change to an editing view such as a frame with scroll bars. The user may modify the content of the selected information. The system automatically updates the original document information.

Reference is again made to both illustrating an example mark up window and annotation view within one or more embodiments of a data analyzer architecture. The annotation view and mark up window display the mark up associated with document and or documents to which the document has been linked. For example the systems traverse the object model tree in memory locate annotations feat exist within that tree and locate the particular corresponding annotation s for items at a given level within the tree. It is also aware of the document object model in this example.

Reference is again made to both illustrating the map view together with the map window . The map view reviews each of the nodes within the selected document and displays them for example within a tree or a snap format. In the present example it displays a tree of boxes representing nodes within the document nodes of other documents connected from tire selected document and or annotations associated with the document and lines connecting the boxes together representing links from the document or nodes therein to other documents or nodes therein and or associated annotations. It is working off of the object model in this example.

Reference is again made to both . The report view and report window look at different elements of the document nodes and annotations and pull them together into a textual representation and or summary.

Advantageously each of the views is provided as a plug in to the system architecture or similar fashion to enable views to be added omitted supplemented and or combined. Other views may be provided and the examples herein are provided merely for illustration of the underlying principals. Further although it is advantageous for the views and or data analyzer to work on one document as a whole the document could be provided in multiple parts and or with separate annotations.

Reference is now made to showing an example embodiment of an optional data flow for splitting an annotated document. In this conceptual illustration the annotation data stream is separate from the document data stream and the annotations and documents are stored separately. The annotated document is received by the annotation split logic and is brokers apart into document output data stream and annotation output data stream e.g. for storage e.g. in an XML document repository and an XML annotation repository . The document is parsed e.g. by an XML parser and a document mark up schema is used to help identify nodes within the document and or annotations. If implemented using XML tags are associated with the document and the tags that are associated with the annotation.

Optionally multiple versions of the document and or annotation are managed e.g. by respective versioning data management systems .

Preferably any kind of annotation data and or any kind of document data and or format may be accepted. They are advantageously converted into XML and then converted from XML into their native format.

If more than one document is embedded within a stream the system may extract that document from multiple documents embedded within a single stream in order to obtain a single document stream in any event.

The document data may optionally be provided in multiple document streams. In the case of the USPTO database data from to is stored in a formatted character mode which is non standard and awkward to handle. This information is stored as provided by the USPTO in multiple files per patent. Those files contain the abstract information information about the inventor a brief description of the claims drawings etc. so there are several documents for a given patent. Optionally all of the annotations that relate to one other document could be stored in one annotation stream and all of the annotations relating to yet a different document optionally may be stored in a separate annotation data stream. There is no requirement that all annotations for a document come from or be stored into a single annotation file.

Annotation merge logic inputs the input data streams and creates a mark up representation of the document data containing referencing or including the annotation data whether by structure or reference for associating the annotation data with its corresponding elements within the document data.

The XML element is a macro that may he cut pasted and inserted into another section of the document by reference. Hence one alternative according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is to take the annotation data define each one of them as elements at the top of the file and then simply embed a reference to that element within each of the paragraphs where it needs to be expanded. That provides the mark up copy and it is semantically equivalent to embedding the actual mark up entities within the entities that they refer to in the original document.

There are several alternative ways to include the annotations e.g. write the annotation to a separate XML file and use an include statement to include the contents of that XML file. The concept of the different ways of expanding into the mark up document may be realigned in different ways whether by inclusion of an element the macro type element by doing an include to pull it in from another document or by expanding out the XML code for such representation further containing referencing or including the annotation data.

There are a number of alternative ways in which the data may be provided. The data stream could be for example a named pipe data from a firewall data from a disk or data from a database etc.

According to one or more alternative embodiments of the invention the document data and or the annotation data are stored in multiple data servers and may be accessed via one or more data managers. For example data might be distributed among servers physically located e.g. at a global headquarters of an information service a corporate headquarters of a company of a small law office and or a personal computer.

According to one or more alternative embodiments the document data and or annotation data and or marked up document are provided as data streams. If a data stream contains image data or other binary data one of the data streams may include data for associating the image or binary data with the annotation data and or document data. This is useful if for example mere are images that are associated with many of the patents trademarks etc.

The image binary data stream is not necessarily distinct from the document data stream or if appropriate the annotation data stream. The document itself may contain a reference to an image and or the annotation itself may contain the reference. In one or more embodiments of the present invention on the other hand the image binary data stream might or might not be distinct from the document data or the annotation data.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention annotation data may contain an association of an external data stream of e.g. document data. The annotation data may have an association to external data e.g. a hyperlink to a URL web page a fully qualified file name on a network server the document a name of a program a name of a command string mat can be executed through a command shell to start e.g. a computer aided design CAD system with a particular CAD file etc.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention associations may be formed between the version of an annotation with a version of the document. Preferably one or more of the input data streams is from a versioning system where there is provided a version control system with multiple versions of a document and or annotation. The system and or user selects one of those document versions and or annotation data from the versioning system. Where both document data and annotation data are provided from a versioning system there may be one or multiple versioning systems.

Marked up input data streams may contain annotation text or may be related to a stream that contains annotation text. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a marked up document may be received as an input data stream or marked up document coming in to an input data stream. Annotation data may be included that is associated with embedded in or connected with the input data stream. The input data streams may include inter alia annotation data and or a marked up document representation. The system is capable of parsing such marked up document representation. The system may extract from such marked up document representation the annotation data which may be placed into one or more output data streams. The annotations are optionally stripped out and made separate and distinct from the marked up data stream.

The system can review the marked up document and may extract the relationship between the annotation data and the elements of the document.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention there is provided a user interface. When the user selects a different kind of annotation or when the content of the annotation changes for example the user may dynamically change how a particular user interface displays the information that it is working with.

Depending on the type of the annotation e.g. a conformance test one or more parts of the user interface may display themselves differently than for history of the document. Consider that something is displayed in a user interface window. The user selects one of several different annotations that they want to work with. The screen displays the information they are working as it changes in one form or another.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example flow chart for merging document data together with annotation data to produce a marked up representation of the document. At step the user selects a document to be marked up. At step the system determines whether the currently located document is the correct document for marking up. If not at step the system searches for the correct document. Once the correct document is obtained at block the system determines whether the current version is the correct version. If not the system searches for the current version of the document at block . Once the correct version of the current document is obtained at block the system determines whether there is any annotation data for the selected document for the particular user. If the current annotation data is not the correct annotation data at block the system continues to search for the annotation data corresponding to the selected document block . At block if the current version of the annotation data is not the correct version of annotation data then at block the system continues to search for the correct version of the annotation data.

At block the system has the correct version of bother the selected document and the annotation data and the system proceeds to place the document data into a mark up representation of the document. At block the system loops to check for additional items of annotation data. For another item of annotation data at block the system locates the corresponding element within the mark up representation of the document and at block the system associates the annotation data with the corresponding element of the document. When there are no further items of annotation data at block the system provides the user with a marked up representation of the document. Processing ends at block .

Reference is now made to illustrating one example of splitting of a marked up representation of a document into annotation data and document data. At block the system obtains a marked up representation of the document. In blocks and the system loops to obtain each element in the marked up representation of the document determine the annotation s in the element and split out and store the annotations. In blocks and the system separately stores the document data and annotation data. Hence in block the system determines whether there is another element in the document. If so the system obtains the next element in the marked up representation of the document at block . At block the system checks whether the element includes one or more annotations. If so the system stores the annotation s in the annotation data at block . At block the system stores the element in the document data. The system loops back to block for the next element in the document. Once done processing elements in the document the system stores the document data as a new version for this user at block aid stores the annotation data as a new version for this user at block . At block the system returns from processing.

If there are no further mark ups and if the document and mark ups are to be saved then at block the system determines whether the marked up document was edited and or was editable. If so the document is stored at step . At step the system determines whether there is one or more saved mark ups to be applied to the document. If not then the system exits. If there are mark ups then at step the system determines whether the mark ups are stored separately from the document. If not then at step the system stores the saved mark ups together with the document. Otherwise at step the system stores the saved mark ups separately from the document and at step stores data representative of the mark up locations within the document. The function then exits processing.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example architecture for use in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. In the present example a computer hosts one or more annotations components and one or more linkages components . The annotations component has one or more of the following a component to apply an annotation to a document a component to edit an annotation and a component for document and or section selection . The apply annotation component interacts with the user to create an annotation e.g. using menus free form text cut and paste of text web pages and or hyper links and to apply that annotation to the document or to the selected section of the document . The annotation may be applied e.g. by inserting the annotation into the document by saving the annotation separately in an annotations database and inserting a reference to the annotation into the document and or by saving metadata associating the reference and the document or selected section thereof etc. The edit annotation component interacts with the user to edit an existing annotation e.g. using means free form text cut and pate etc. and optionally to save the edited annotation. The edited annotation may be saved e.g. by saving the edited annotation with the document by saving the edited annotation separately and optionally updating a reference to the annotation into the document and or by updating metadata associating the reference and the document or selected section thereof etc. The document and or section selection component interacts with the user to determine a portion portions or the entirety of the document to be associated with the annotation.

The linkages component s include one or more of a component to establish indicate and or remove one or more links a component to allow the user to traverse one or more links and a component for document and or section selection. The document and or section selection component interacts with the user to determine a portion portions or the entirety of one or more documents to be associated with a link. A link may be between one or more documents or sections thereof. A document may be linked back to itself or a section therein. The component to establish indicate and or remove a link interacts with the user to determine the document and or section to link from and the document and or section to link to. The link may be established or indicated e.g. by inserting a link e.g. reference pointer etc. into the document by saving the links separately in a links database and inserting a reference to the link into the document and or by saving metadata associating the link and the document or selected section thereof etc. Optionally links and annotations are stored in association. Optionally links are stored within the associated annotations or vice versa. The component to traverse links determines one or more links if any associated with a selected document and or selected portions thereof optionally one or more annotations associated therewith and optionally the document title or description at the node of the link. Further the links component interacts with the user to determine which link to traverse to obtain the link pointer reference etc to the linked document and to retrieve the linked document and provide to the user. With the retrieved document the user may traverse further links therefrom. According to one or more embodiments of me present invention one or more users are local communicating with the computer and or are connected over a network e.g. the Internet . In the illustrated example the documents database links database and annotations database are local to the computer a further documents database is accessed via the Internet .

Viewed externally in computer has a central processing unit CPU having disk drives . Disk drives are merely symbolic of a number of disk drives that might be accommodated by computer . Typically these might be one or more of the following a floppy disk drive a hard disk drive not shown and a CD ROM or digital video disk as indicated by the slot at . The number and type of drives varies typically with different computer configurations. Disk drives are in fact options and for space considerations may be omitted from the computer system used in conjunction with the processes described herein.

Computer also has a display upon which information may be displayed. The display is optional for the computer used in conjunction with the system described herein. A keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse may be provided as input devices to interface with central processing unit . To increase input efficiency keyboard may be supplemented or replaced with a scanner card reader or other data input device. The pointing device may be a mouse touch pad control device track ball device or any other type of pointing device.

Alternatively referring to computer may also include a CD ROM reader and CD recorder which are interconnected by a bus along with other peripheral devices supported by the bus structure and protocol. Bus serves as the main information highway interconnecting other components of the computer. It is connected via an interface to the computer .

Disk controller interfaces one or more disk drives to the system bus . These disk drives may be floppy disk drives such as or CD ROM or DVD digital video versatile disk drives as at or internal or external hard drives . As previously indicated these various disk drives and disk controllers are optional devices.

A display interface permits information from bus to be displayed on the display . Again as indicated the display is an optional accessory for a central or remote computer in the communication network as are infrared receiver and transmitter . Communication with external devices occurs using communications port .

In addition to the standard components of the computer the computer may also include an interface which allows for data input through the keyboard or pointing device such as a mouse .

Conventional processing system architecture is more fully discussed in by William Stallings MacMillan Publishing Co. 3d ed 1993 . Conventional processing system network design is more fully discussed in by Darren L. Spohn McGraw Hill Inc. 1993 . Conventional data communications is more fully discussed in R. D. Gitlin J. F. Hayes and S. B. Weinstain Plenum Press 1992 and in by James Harry Green Irwin Professional Publishing 2d ed. 1992 . Each of the foregoing publications is incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing detailed description includes many specific details. The inclusion of such detail is for the purpose of illustration only and should not be understood to limit the invention. In addition features in one embodiment may be combined with features in other embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

As one example the information system may include a general purpose computer or a specially programmed special purpose computer. It may be implemented as a distributed computer system rather than a single computer. Similarly a communications link may be World Wide Web a modem over a POTS line and or any other method of communicating between computers and or users. Moreover the processing could be controlled by a software program on one or more computer system or processors or could even be partially or wholly implemented in hardware.

This invention is not limited to particular types of intellectual property. It is intended for use with any type of intellectual property e.g. patents trademarks trade secrets designs sui generis protection copyrights licenses litigations and or other sights. Further various aspects of one or more embodiments of the present invention are useful with documents including those not related to intellectual property.

Further the invention is not limited to particular protocols for communication. Any appropriate communication protocol may be used.

The report may be developed in connection with HTML display format. Although HTML is the preferred display format it is possible to utilize alternative display formats for displaying a report and obtaining user instructions. The invention has been discussed in connection with particular examples. However the principles apply equally to other examples and or realizations. Naturally the relevant data may differ as appropriate.

Further this invention has been discussed in certain examples as if it is made available by a provider to a single customer with a single site. The invention may be used by numerous customers if preferred. Also the invention may be utilized by customers with multiple sites and or agents and or licensee type arrangements.

This invention has been described in connection with example data formats for example XML and USPTO defined XML. However the invention may be used in connection with other data formats structured and or unstructured unitary and or distributed.

The system used in connection with the invention may rely on the integration of various components including as appropriate and or if desired hardware and software servers applications software database engines server area networks firewall and SSL security production back up systems and or applications interface software. The configuration may be preferably network based and optionally utilizes the Internet as an exemplary primary interface with the customer for information delivery.

The system may store collected information in a database. An appropriate database may be on a standard server for example a small Sun Sparc or other remote location. The database is optionally an MSQL MYSQL mini sequel server MiniSQL or Oracle. Information is stored in the database and optionally stored and backed up by a back up server periodically or aperiodically for example every night along with all other data in the servers that axe behind the corporate firewall into a back up storage facility. Back up storage facility comprises for example one or more tape silos that are also used to back up the entire network every night. Data security and segregation of the various customers data is advantageously maintained. The information for example will eventually get stored for example on a platform that may for example be UNIX based.

The various databases may be in for example a UNIX format but other standard data formats may also be used. Windows NT for example is used but other standard operating systems may also be used. Optionally the various databases include a conversion system capable of receiving data in various standard formats.

From the user s perspective according to some embodiments the user may access the public Internet or other suitable network and look at its specific information at any time from any location as long as is has Internet or other suitable access. For example the user opens its standard web browser goes to the address that is specified for its load data and optionally fills out a user ID to log on and a password to identify it as the specific user or the specific customer of that particular information.

Optionally security of the networks is as tight as possible such that the data not only customer data but any information that is beyond the firewall is always protected against any kind of potential intrusion. The user and indeed multiple users concurrently can look at the same information. Advantageously having this system on the Internet enables users at various locations throughout the country or the world to visit the same site at the same time and enter Into a discussion or talk group as to what they are seeing what it means and maybe what they can do with that information.

