---

title: Using non-IMS connections in IMS sessions
abstract: Systems and methods can be implemented for IP multimedia subsystem (IMS) resource reservation. A first electronic device can transmit, through an IP network, a non-Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) message to an application server in an IMS network, where the non-IMS SIP message includes a request to initiate an IMS communication session through the IMS network with a second electronic device. A SIP message can also be transmitted through the IMS network to the application server that initiates a SIP INVITE session between the first electronic device and the application server, where the SIP INVITE session is routed through the IMS network. The first electronic device can then, receive a SIP response message that identifies a resource reservation for the IMS communication session from the application server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094438&OS=09094438&RS=09094438
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09094438
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120723
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of PCT Application PCT CA2011 050450 entitled Using Non IMS Connections in IMS Sessions filed on Jul. 22 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to wireless communications and more particularly to the utilization of non IMS SIP signaling protocol for IMS session.

In Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP systems an internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS network can provide mobile users with IP multimedia services such as voice video and data. Using IMS a mobile device may transmit and receive multimedia and or voice packet switched PS communications via a base station implementing one or more IMS Functional Components. To implement IMS networks can rely upon session initiation protocol SIP to provide text based signaling that can be used to communicate between a UE and the IMS Core Network CN between the IMS CN and Application Servers and between various other components of the IMS Network.

In an IMS network when a caller wishes to establish an IMS communication session with a callee the caller s mobile device can construct a SIP INVITE request and forward it to the caller s home network via a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF . The P CSCF can take a snapshot of the Session Description Protocol SDP in the INVITE request and routes the request further to the caller s Serving SCF S CSCF . After receiving and validating the request the S CSCF retrieves the caller s initial Filter Criteria iFC from the Home Subscriber Server HSS and executes the service control logic. The execution logic may include for instance invocation of IMS Application Servers ASs located in the home network. Typically the S CSCF does not invoke the IMS AS by itself but passes control over the service orchestration to a service broker Application Server AS . In some instances the service broker AS orchestrates the IMS AS invocations based on the iFC configurations.

Once the IMS AS has processed the SIP INVITE request the control is returned back to the S CSCF. The S CSCF can determine a next hop for the request and forwards the request to the callee s Interrogating CSCF I CSCF . The I CSCF can locate the home S CSCF of the callee and sends the request to the S CSCF through a number of DNS and diameter queries. The IMS AS s invocation in the terminating network is similar to the originating. Further the S CSCF forwards the request to the callee s P CSCF and finally the callee s mobile device receives the request. The response generated by the callee traverses the same path back to the caller. After several forward and back SIP messages the session establishment procedure is completed.

The present disclosure provides for systems methods and apparatuses relating to wireless communications and more particularly to the utilization of non IMS SIP signaling protocol for IMS session. In some aspects a first electronic device e.g user equipment UE a server a private branch exchange PBX a gateway can initiate an IP multimedia subsystem IMS session initiation protocol SIP communication session using a non IMS SIP protocol connection. Comparing to IMS SIP which can be a set of 3GPP specifications defining SIP profile in IMS networks a non IMS SIP can be SIP profile defined outside of 3GPP IMS standardization activities. Furthermore in some implementations the IMS SIP messages may be sent by an electronic device inside of IMS networks while SIP messages may be sent outside of IMS networks. After IMS SIP session initiation a network resource may be reserved for one or more media services used in the IMS SIP communication session. The IMS SIP session initiation process may start from the first electronic device sending a non IMS SIP message. The non IMS SIP message may be an indication of a SIP call session dialog being initiated by the first electronic device. The non IMS SIP message can be transmitted to the IMS application server directly through a public IP network. In comparison a regular SIP INVITE request message for IMS SIP session initiation may be routed through multiple hops including through a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF and a Serving CSCF S CSCF of the IMS core network. The non IMS SIP may be any protocol other than an IMS SIP that can deliver the non IMS SIP message to the AS faster than the IMS SIP. For example the non IMS SIP s that are suitable for the implementations of the disclosure may include Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP non IMS SIP as defined by internet engineering task force request for comments IETF RFCs REpresentational State Transfer REST Transmission Control Protocol TCP P2P protocols proprietary protocols e.g. research in motion protocols or others. The first electronic device may also send a SIP INVITE request to initiate a regular SIP INVITE dialog call session. After receiving the non IMS SIP message the AS can initiate a SIP dialog with IMS core network without having to wait for the SIP INVITE request.

After a SIP INVITE request and a provisional response to the SIP INVITE request have traversed the IMS network among at least the first electronic device the AS and the second electronic device the IMS SIP communication session may be initialized and a resource reservation for one or more IMS multi media services may be completed. The first electronic device may then activate at least one bearer media associated with the reserved resource. In some aspects a first electronic device can initiate a bearer media activation procedure for IMS SIP session using non IMS SIP protocol connection after a resource reservation procedure described in the previous section has been completed. The bearer activation procedure may start from a first electronic device transmitting a non IMS SIP message for example an HTTP UPDATE request i.e. a message that may include an HTTP header or a header parameter with e.g. verb UPDATE or any other parameter that may be used by the application server to identify an action to be performed on the SIP call leg of a call dialog session without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. It is to be understood that besides the header parameter UPDATE and corresponding SIP UPDATE request transaction example parameters suitable for other SIP transactions for the non IMS SIP message may also include PRACK OPTIONS BYE CANCEL INFO and MESSAGE . Similar to the IMS SIP session initiation process using non IMS SIP protocol connection the HTTP UPDATE message may be transmitted to the application server directly. As such the time for the HTTP UPDATE message to arrive at the application server may be faster than a regular SIP UPDATE request which may be delayed by the P CSCF and S CSCF before arriving at the AS. The first electronic device may not transmit a separate SIP UPDATE request to the AS for bearer activation since the network resource has already been reserved. After receiving the HTTP UPDATE request the AS can send a SIP message request to IMS core network for bearer media activation.

The electronic devices described above may operate in a cellular communication system such as the example system shown in . The example cellular system illustrated in includes one or more UEs two UEs are shown a radio access network RAN a core network CN IMS and external internet protocol IP networks . The core network further includes a home subscriber server HSS and the IMS further includes an IMS application server .

UE may be any mobile electronic device used by an end user to communicate for example within the cellular system . The UE may be referred to as mobile electronic device mobile device user device mobile station subscriber station or wireless terminal. UE may be a cellular phone personal data assistant PDA smartphone laptop tablet personal computer PC or other wireless communications device. Further UEs may include pagers portable computers Session Initiation Protocol SIP phones one or more processors within devices or any other suitable processing devices capable of communicating information using a radio technology. UE may communicate directly with a base station included in a RAN to receive service when UE is operated within the cell associated with the corresponding base station . UE may also receive radio signals from more than one base station included in RAN .

Functionally the UEs may be used as a platform for different applications of communications. For example the UEs may be used for interacting with the cellular network by transmitting receiving signals for initiating maintaining or terminating the communications the end user requested. The UE may also include mobility management functions such as handovers and reporting the location and in these the UE performs as instructed by the cellular network. One exemplary function of the UE may be to provide the user interface to the end user so that applications such as voice call video communication data transmission or web browsing may be implemented.

In some implementations UEs may transmit in one or more cellular bands. One or more UEs may be communicably coupled to the RAN . In these cases messages transmitted and or received by UEs may be based on a multiple access technology. In some implementations the UEs are configured to use orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA technology or single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA technology to communicate with the base station . In some other implementations eNBs may also accommodate UEs using multiple access technologies such as time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA and code division multiple access CDMA . The UEs may transmit voice video multimedia text web content and or any other user client specific content. Some multimedia content e.g. video and web content may take advantage of high channel throughput based on multiple input multiple output MIMO technology. MIMO technology may enable the system to set up multiple data streams on the same channel thereby increasing the throughput of the channel. In short UEs generate requests responses or otherwise communicate in different means with core network and or Internet Protocol IP networks through RAN . A few components included in the UE and their corresponding functionalities are further described in the illustration of .

A RAN is part of a telecommunication system which implements a radio access technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM CDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE . In some applications the RAN for a 3GPP LTE system is called an EUTRAN. The RAN can locate between the UEs and the CN . The RAN includes one or more base stations . The base stations can be radio base stations that may control one or more radio related functions in a fixed part of the system. The base station may directly communicate to one or more UEs other base stations and the CN . The base station may be the end point of the radio protocols towards the UEs and may relay signals between the radio connection and the connectivity towards the CN .

A CN or a backbone network can be the central part of a telecommunications network. Functionally CN may be used for providing various services to customers connected by the RAN including routing calls across the RAN IP networks and or public switched telephone network PSTN . In LTE system the main component of CN is the evolved packet core EPC . The CN may include a home subscriber server HSS . In some implementations the HSS is also called a User Profile Server Function UPSF . The HSS is a master user database that supports the IMS network entities that actually handle calls. The HSS contains the subscription related information e.g. subscriber profiles and user identifies performs authentication and authorization of the UEs and can provide information about the UE s location and IP information. Various user identities may be associated with IMS e.g IP Multimedia Private Identity IMPI IP Multimedia Public Identity IMPU Globally Routable User Agent URI GRUU Wildcarded Public User Identity. In some implementations the core network can include an IMS core network.

An IMS is an architectural framework for delivering Internet Protocol IP multimedia services. To ease the integration with the external IP networks IMS uses Internet Engineering Task Force IETF protocols e.g. SIP. IMS may be used to help the access of multimedia and voice applications from wireless and wireline terminals. In other words the IMS may create a form of fixed mobile convergence. This is done by having a horizontal control layer that isolates the RAN from the service layer. From a logical architecture perspective services may not have their own control functions as the control layer can be used as a common horizontal layer. The IMS are communicably coupled to the CN and RAN to provide multimedia services to UEs. In some implementations network components included in CN and RAN can be used to form part of the IMS . The IMS may communicate with a UE or the external IP networks using Internet Protocol for IP addressing and routing. The IMS may include an IMS application server . The IMS application server may host one or more applications for providing multimedia services to UEs . A few components included in the IMS server and their corresponding functionalities are further described in the illustration of . In some implementations the IMS may be communicably coupled to a PSTN not shown and or external IP networks . The external IP networks may include public networks e.g. Internet and private networks that support Internet Protocol.

In some aspects of operation an IMS SIP message may be sent by UE through the RAN and CN that includes an IMS CN to the IMS AS server . While transmitting through the IMS CN a P CSCF included in the IMS CN may process the IMS SIP message by at least retrieving a session description protocol information from the IMS SIP message and a S CSCF included in the IMS CN may process the IMS SIP message by at least retrieving an initial Filter Criteria from the HSS and executing a service control logic. For a non IMS SIP message sent by UE the message may be delivered to the IMS AS server without being processed by the P CSCF and S CSCF. It is to be understood that although UE is used in here as an example electronic device to generally represent a terminal for IMS communication any other electronic devices e.g. server PBX gateway etc. that can transmit and receive IMS SIP and non IMS SIP messages may also be used as terminal devices in the various implementations of this disclosure.

Though described in terms of the present disclosure is not limited to such a cellular system. In general cellular telecommunication systems may be described as cellular networks made up of a number of radio cells or cells that are each served by a base station or other fixed transceiver. The cells are used to cover different areas in order to provide radio coverage over an area. Example cellular telecommunication systems include Global System for Mobile Communication GSM protocols Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and others. In addition to cellular telecommunication systems other wireless communication systems that are suitable for the various implementations described in the present disclosure may include but not limited to IEEE 802.11 suite wireless local area network IEEE 802.15.4 system Bluetooth system IEEE 802.16 WiMAX network etc. Accordingly the RAN CN external IP networks can be the RAN CN and external IP networks included in any wireless communication systems without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

At UE transmits a non IMS SIP message e.g. HTTP request to the AS . The AS may be an IMS AS as described in the illustration of . The message can be an indication of a SIP call session dialog being initiated by UE . The non IMS SIP may be any protocol that can deliver the non IMS SIP message faster than SIP to the AS . The non IMS SIP may include HTTP IETF SIP REST TCP P2P protocols and proprietary protocols. In some implementations the non IMS SIP message may be sent to the AS through a network that is different from the IMS network e.g the external IP networks as described in the illustration of . In this particular example an HTTP INVITE request is considered as the non IMS SIP message. The HTTP INVITE request that indicates a SIP call session dialog being initiated may comprise an HTTP header and or a header parameter with e.g. verb INVITE . The HTTP INVITE request may also contain a parameter indicating a destination address of the upcoming SIP call session dialog e.g. the address of UE . The parameter may be in the form of SIP Uniform Resource Identifier URI or any other form which can allow the AS to generate a valid SIP URI address of the destination. The HTTP request may also contain a Session Description Protocol SDP offer that UE can send on the SIP leg of the call session dialog. In some implementations when UE initiates multiple sessions to the same destination at the same time the HTTP request may also contain a header parameter that can help the AS to correlate the HTTP request with the upcoming SIP requests e.g. SIP INVITEs . The header parameter may have values including IMS Communication Service Identifier ICSI IMS Application Reference Identifier IARI user agent capabilities caller preferences SIP Call ID header. In some implementations the AS may query UE using a SIP request e.g. SIP OPTIONS request . Accordingly the AS may receive an SDP offer in a message that is in the response to the SIP request. Other SIP and non IMS SIP implementations may also be used to obtain an SDP offer for UE at the AS without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

At UE can initiate a regular SIP INVITE dialog call session with UE . Detailed illustration of the regular SIP INVITE dialog session call initiation procedure can be found in the 3GPP IMS standard technical specification TS .. In short the SIP INVITE request is first transmitted to a P CSCF . Multiple roles of SIP proxies or servers may be collectively called a CSCF. The functions of SIP servers and the proxies are respectively the P CSCF and S CSCF . The CSCF can be used to process SIP signaling packets in the IMS. A P CSCF is a SIP proxy that can be the first point of contact for the IMS terminal. It can be located either in a visited network or in a home network. After receiving the SIP INVITE request the P CSCF can take a snapshot of the SDP in the INVITE request and route the SIP INVITE request to the S CSCF at . After receiving and validating the SIP INVITE request the S CSCF can retrieve an iFC from the HSS such as a HSS described in the illustration of and forward the SIP INVTE to the AS at . Based on the received SIP INVITE request the AS may decode an SDP offer that identifies the IMS services requested by UE . Compared to the transmission of HTTP INVITE the SIP INVITE is processed by both the P CSCF and the S CSCF which may results in a longer transmission time for the INVITE request to arrive at the AS . The non IMS SIP message may not traverse IMS CN on the UE AS call leg . Therefore the AS can start the SIP INVITE call flows at based on receiving the non IMS SIP IMS message instead of the regular SIP INVITE request and a time can be saved during the SIP dialog session call initiation procedure.

Once the AS receives the non IMS SIP message transmitted by UE at it can perform at least one of the following 1 authenticate and validate the received non IMS SIP message 2 decode the destination address information from the non IMS SIP message e.g. SIP URI 3 identify if an SDP offer is included in the non IMS SIP message and if an SDP offer is included decode and store an SDP offer based on the non IMS SIP message 4 generate a SIP INVITE request according to the rules defined in 3GPP TS24.229 5 set the destination address in the generated SIP INVITE request 6 set the pre stored SDP offer in the SIP INVITE request or 7 Initiate a SIP dialog with IMS CN such as the CN described in the illustration of .

At the SIP invite is transmitted to UE through an S CSCF and or a P CSCF S P CSCF based on the decoded destination address. At an IMS network resource is reserved by UE . The IMS network resources may correspond to one or more multimedia services that may be used in the IMS SIP communication session. At UE sends a SIP 183 response that includes an SDP answer to the S P CSCF and the SIP 183 response is forwarded to the AS at .

The AS awaits for the SIP INVITE request from UE and SIP 183 Session in Progress response or any other SIP response with SDP answer from the UE . When both the SIP INVITE request and the SIP 183 response have been received by the AS the AS can decode the SDP answer based on e.g. the SIP 183 of the UE . The SDP answer may be included in a SIP 183 or any other SIP response messages. The AS may also store the SDP offer from UE and the SDP answer from UE . At SDP answer may be included in a SIP response message e.g. SIP 183 response to the S CSCF . The SIP response message can further be forwarded to the P CSCF at and finally to UE at .

In some implementations the AS may detect a codec mismatch between the SIP INVITE SDP offer from UE and an SDP answer from UE i.e. the multimedia services associated with the SDP offer may use different codecs compared to the SDP answer. The AS may act as a back to back user agent B2BUA it may invoke IMS Media Resource Function Controller MRFC Media Resource Function Processor MRFP or other transcoding functions in order to transcode media between the sessions associated with SDP offer and SDP answer. For example an AS may receive a HTTP INVITE request from UE and initiate a SIP session with the UE using codecs and . However due to an internal policy the carriers may invoke a media transcoding function and replaces codecs and with codecs and . UE may respond to the SIP INVITE including SDP offer associated with codecs and from the AS with codec . Thus a codec mismatch UE with codecs and and UE with codecs may be detected by the AS . The AS may then establish a session with the MFRC. The MRFC may allocate resources on MRFP for the transcoding between codecs and . The AS can reply using a SIP response with codecs and in response to the SIP INVITE from UE . The AS can also use codec in any upcoming SIP transactions e.g. SIP UPDATE with SDP offer on the interface with UE . The MRFP can then transcode the media stream with codecs or from the UE to codec on the interface to the UE and vice versa.

At UE sends a non IMS SIP message e.g. an HTTP UPDATE request to the AS . The HTTP UPDATE request may include an HTTP header or a header parameter with e.g. verb UPDATE or any other parameter that may be used by the AS to identify an action to be performed on the SIP call leg of the call dialog session. In some instances the non IMS SIP message may also include a parameter e.g. SIP Call Id header that can help the AS to correlate the non IMS SIP message with an existing SIP dialog session call. In some instances the non IMS SIP message may further include an indication identifying that UE has requested to activate the bearer. The indication may include for example an SDP parameter a sendrecv or a sendonly . In some instances the non IMS SIP message may further include an updated SDP offer of UE .

In the diagram shown in a regular SIP UPDATE request sent by UE through the P CSCF at and the S CSCF at to the AS at is shown for comparison purpose only. In the example process for bearer activation the regular SIP UPDATE request may not be sent. Since the SDP associated with UE is assumed to be obtained by the AS during the IMS SIP session initiation process the system can use the obtained SDP information for bearer activation. Similar to the regular SIP INVITE request the SIP UPDATE request may arrive at the AS through multiple hops which may cause time delays. An example saved time for using non IMS SIP message is shown in though no SIP INVITE request may be transmitted by UE .

In some implementations the UE sends only HTTP UPDATE request but no messages are sent on the SIP leg of the call dialog session. However the P CSCF which the UE is connected to processes SDPs from both UE and UE in order to contact PCC and activate the bearer. After receiving the HTTP UPDATE request at the AS can perform at least one of the following 1 authenticate validate and correlate the HTTP UPDATE request with an existing SIP session 2 decode and store an SDP offer from the non IMS SIP if an SDP offer is included in the HTTP UPDATE request 3 generate a SIP UPDATE request and depending on the specific implementation the request generated may also be Provisional SIP Response Acknowledgement PRACK SIP INFO SIP Re INVITE and or SIP OPTIONS 4 set the pre stored SDP offer in the SIP UPDATE request or 5 send the SIP message request to IMS CN at .

A SIP messaging call flow starting at between the AS and UE can be standard IMS call flows as defined in 3GPP TS24.229. The S P CSCF of UE can make final adjustments for the bearer when the SIP messages cross the S P CSCF at and . The message transmitted by UE at may be a SIP 200 OK message. At UE may confirm resource reservation activate bearer and or start ringing alerting the end user for the incoming media session initiated by UE . At the S P CSCF can forward the SIP 200 OK to the AS . When the AS receives the SIP 200 for the SIP UPDATE request from UE it can decode an SDP answer from the SIP 200 and include it into a SIP UPDATE request on the SIP call leg towards UE . The SDP becomes an offer SDP on the UE SIP call leg. The AS sends the SIP UPDATE message through the S CSCF at the P CSCF at to UE at . UE receives processes and responds to the message with its own SDP answer and sends a SIP 200 OK to the P CSCF . The P CSCF can make final adjustments for the bearer after receiving the SIP 200 at and forward it through S CSCF at to the AS at .

In some implementations an AS has initiated a SIP session to UE but received an error SIP response e.g. SIP 486 Busy Here the AS may transmit the response back to UE based on the status of the SIP session with the UE as follows 1 If the AS has received a SIP request from UE e.g. SIP INVITE the AS may transmit the SIP reject code reason e.g. SIP 486 Busy Here from the UE in a SIP response to the SIP request from the UE 2 If the AS has not received a SIP request from the UE the AS may propagate the SIP reject code reason in a non IMS SIP response similar to the corresponding process described in the illustration of .

In some implementation an AS receives a non IMS SIP INVITE but due to an internal syntax or other error it cannot initiate a SIP session with UE . The AS can respond to the non IMS SIP INVITE with a non IMS SIP response. The non IMS SIP response may include a code or a reason of the failure.

In some implementations an AS receives a SIP INVITE without a previously queued non IMS SIP INVITE. Then the AS may follow the standard IMS flows procedures as described in 3GPP TS24.229. The AS may also reject using an error code e.g. Call leg transaction does not exist response code to the non IMS SIP INVITE messages received after the received SIP INVITE.

The processor may comprise a microprocessor central processing unit graphic control unit network processor or other processor for carrying out instructions stored in memory . The functions of the processor may include computation queue management control processing graphic acceleration video decoding and execution of a sequence of stored instructions from the program kept in the memory module . In some implementations the processor may also be responsible for signal processing including sampling quantizing encoding decoding and or modulation demodulation of the signal. The memory module may include a temporary state device e.g. random access memory RAM and data storage. The memory module can be used to store data or programs i.e. sequences of instructions on a temporary or permanent basis for use in a UE.

The wireless transceiver can include both the transmitter circuitry and the receiver circuitry. The wireless transceiver may be responsible for converting a baseband signal to a passband signal or vice versa. The components of wireless transceiver may include a digital to analog converter analog to digital converter amplifier frequency filter and oscillator. In addition the wireless transceiver may also include or communicably coupled to a digital signal processing DSP circuitry . The DSP circuitry may perform functionalities including encoding decoding detecting estimating modulating and or demodulating signals. The transceiver may be communicably to one or more antennas .

The antenna is a transducer which can transmit and or receive electromagnetic waves. Antenna can convert electromagnetic radiation into electric current or vice versa. Antenna is generally responsible for the transmission and reception of radio waves and can serve as the interface between the transceiver and the wireless channel. In some implementations the wireless station may be equipped with more than one antenna to take advantage of multiple input multiple output MIMO technology. MIMO technology may provide a process to utilize the multiple signal paths to reduce the impact of multipath fading and or to improve the throughput. By using multiple antennas at wireless station MIMO technology may enable the system to set up multiple parallel data streams on the same channel thereby increasing the throughput of the channel.

The server may include at least one processor a memory one or more applications an input output controller and an interface . The server may be an IMS SIP AS that can host and execute services and interface with the S CSCF using SIP. An example of an application server that is being developed in 3GPP is the Voice call continuity Function VCC Server . Depending on the actual service the AS can operate in SIP proxy mode SIP UA mode or SIP B2BUA mode. An AS can be located in a home network or in an external third party network e.g. the external IP networks described in the illustration of . If the server is located in the home network it can query the HSS with the Diameter Sh or Si interfaces.

The processor included in the server can execute one or more multimedia applications to provide IMS multimedia services. The processor may be a central processing unit CPU a blade an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or another suitable component. Generally the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the server and specifically the one or more applications . Regardless of the particular implementation applications may include computer readable instructions firmware wired or programmed hardware or any combination thereof on a tangible and non transitory medium operable when executed to perform at least the processes and operations described herein. Indeed each software component may be fully or partially written or described in any appropriate computer language including C C Java Visual Basic assembler Perl any suitable version of 4GL as well as others. Processors suitable for the execution of applications include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from the memory . Devices suitable for storing applications and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

The memory included in the server may be any memory or database module and may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component.

The input output controller may be a circuitry or module to control the input and or output of the interface . The interface is used by the server for communicating with other network components such as the network components described in the illustration of . Generally the interface includes logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network e.g. an IMS network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols e.g. SIP HTTP P2P etc. associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of a cellular network. In some instances the interface s hardware may include wireless transceivers and antenna not shown .

While this document contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of an invention that is claimed or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this document in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or a variation of a sub combination. Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results.

Only a few examples and implementations are disclosed. Variations modifications and enhancements to the described examples and implementations and other implementations can be made based on what is disclosed.

