---

title: Processing combining-character sequences
abstract: Particular embodiments of a computing device receive an indication of a character encoding system and a combining-character sequence. The character encoding system may comprise one or more ranges of character elements. The combining-character sequence may comprise two or more character elements. The two or more character elements may comprise at least one base letter and one or more combining marks. A mapping code may be determined for the combining-character sequence. If no mapping code exists, a next-available mapping code may be determined, and the combining-character sequence may be stored in association with the next-available mapping code in a data store on the computing device. A corresponding glyph may be determined based on the mapping code—if no glyph exists, the glyph may be generated or retrieved from a server and stored in association with the mapping code in the data store. Information may be provided to display the glyph.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09437019&OS=09437019&RS=09437019
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09437019
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121001
---
This disclosure generally relates to displaying text on client devices in particular processing combining character sequences for display on client devices.

Web browsers and other software applications may rely upon character encoding standards in order to ensure that most if not all characters including combining character sequence based characters such as hacek over and tilde over are predictably rendered across different client devices which may have different versions of the browser or other software application running on top of different operating systems which are themselves executing on different hardware configurations. One such character encoding standard is Unicode. The Unicode Standard A Technical Introduction provides a concise introduction to Unicode as shown in the following excerpt see http www.unicode.org standard principles.html 

The Unicode Standard is the universal character encoding standard used for representation of text for computer processing. The Unicode Standard defines codes for characters used in all the major languages written today. Scripts include the European alphabetic scripts Middle Eastern right to left scripts and many scripts of Asia. The Unicode Standard further includes punctuation marks diacritics mathematical symbols technical symbols arrows dingbats emoji etc. It provides codes for diacritics which are modifying character marks such as the tilde that are used in conjunction with base characters to represent accented letters n for example . In all the Unicode Standard Version 6.0 provides codes for 109 449 characters from the world s alphabets ideograph sets and symbol collections.

The majority of common use characters fit into the first 64K code points an area of the codespace that is called the basic multilingual plane BMP . There are sixteen other supplementary planes available for encoding other characters with currently over 860 000 unused code points. More characters are under consideration for addition to future versions of the standard. The Unicode Standard also reserves code points for private use. Vendors or end users can assign these internally for their own characters and symbols or use them with specialized fonts. There are 6 400 private use code points on the BMP and another 131 068 supplementary private use code points should 6 400 be insufficient for particular applications.

Text elements are encoded as sequences of one or more characters. Certain of these sequences are called combining character sequences made up of a base letter and one or more combining marks which are rendered around the base letter above it below it etc. . For example a sequence of a followed by a combining circumflex would be rendered as . Certain sequences of characters can also be represented as a single character called a precomposed character or composite or decomposible character . For example the character can be encoded as the single code point U 00FC or as the base character U 0075 u followed by the non spacing character U 0308 umlaut over . The Unicode Standard encodes precomposed characters for compatibility with established standards such as Latin 1 which includes many precomposed characters such as and .

A single number is assigned to each code element defined by the Unicode Standard. Each of these numbers is called a code point and when referred to in text is listed in hexadecimal form following the prefix U . For example the code point U 0041 is the hexadecimal number 0041 equal to the decimal number 65 . It represents the character A in the Unicode Standard. As discussed above a range of code points on the BMP and two very large ranges in the supplementary planes are reserved as private use areas. These code points have no universal meaning and may be used for characters specific to a program or by a group of users for their own purposes. For example a group of choreographers may design a set of characters for dance notation and encode the characters using code points in user space. A set of page layout programs may use the same code points as control codes to position text on the page. The main point of user space is that the Unicode Standard assigns no meaning to these code points and reserves them as user space promising never to assign them meaning in the future. end of excerpt 

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users. The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system.

Particular embodiments of a client device maintain a data store of mapping codes e.g. Unicode code points in the range s reserved for private use that correspond to particular combining character sequences used by a particular user associated with the client device. In particular embodiments when there is a need for a glyph corresponding to a new combining character sequence that does not already exist as a pre composed glyph and that does not already exist in the mapping table a new listing may be created in the mapping table that correlates a new mapping code to the new combining character sequence. The client side software may also request from a server side data store a rendered version of the glyph corresponding to the combining character sequence and stores the glyph on the client device. In particular embodiments the mapping table may be stored in session space in a cache and may be refreshed cleared on a per user session basis. In particular embodiments the client side software may maintain certain frequently used mapping codes in a persistent data store on the client device.

Particular embodiments of a client device generate mapping codes e.g. Unicode code points in the range s reserved for private use that correspond to particular combining character sequences used by a particular user associated with the client device. When there is a need for a glyph corresponding to a new combining character sequence that does not already exist as a pre composed glyph and that does not already exist in the mapping table a new listing may be created in the mapping table that correlates the next available mapping code to the new combining character sequence. A new mapping code may be used for each graphical variant of a glyph e.g. different font sizes different font typefaces bold underline italic etc. . The client side software may also request from a server a rendered version of the glyph corresponding to the combining character sequence and stores the glyph on the client device. Client devices are described in further detail with respect to and corresponding text in the specification.

In particular embodiments new mapping codes are associated with combining character sequences on an as needed basis for the user of the client device. The mapping table may be stored in session space in a cache and may be refreshed cleared on a per user session basis. The client side software may maintain certain frequently used mapping codes in a persistent data store on the client device. The determination of which combining character sequences are to be mapped in the first instance and or preserved in the persistent data store may be based on the user s usage history.

In particular embodiments where the user is part of a social networking system new mapping codes may also or alternatively be associated with combining character sequences according to social networking factors tracked server side in relation to usage statistics for 1 combining character sequences that are predicted to be popular with users of a social networking system that have profile characteristics similar to the user s profile age gender location groups school interests 2 combining character sequences that are predicted to be popular with users of a social networking system that are connected to the user in a social graph 3 combining character sequences that appear in social networking content generated by social connections of the user or 4 combining character sequences that appear in third party content associated with the user or social connections of the user. In such embodiments a server may periodically push out new glyphs to client devices to be added to their mapping tables. In such embodiments the server may also maintain a multi dimensional table to track the social factors in relation to usage statistics for combining character sequences. Social graphs and related social networking content are described in further detail with respect to and corresponding text in the specification. Social networking systems are described in further detail with respect to and corresponding text in the specification.

Within the context of this disclosure a character element may be a base character element or a combining character element. A base character element may form a character on its own. A combining character element does not form a character on its own in typical use and usually appears in conjunction with a base character element. A character may be comprised of two or more character elements i.e. at least one base character element and one or more combining character elements . A character may refer to a pre composed character or a decomposed combining character sequence. A glyph may refer to the final rendered form of a character including all character elements in a combining character sequence. A glyph is typically provided in an image file format such as a bitmap. See Table 1 for a few examples of characters and their decompositions into character elements 

The overall set of possible combining character sequences in any given language may be extremely large however the typical number of combining character sequences typed by any given user is very low on the order of tens and rarely exceeds 500 on a per user session basis. Particular embodiments generate mapping codes e.g. Unicode code points in the range s reserved for private use that correspond to particular combining character sequences used by a particular user associated with the client device. The steps involved in producing the examples shown in are described in further detail in and related text in the specification.

In either case the client device may receive one or more combining character sequences for which it needs to render the appropriate characters for display. Each combining character sequence may comprise two or more character elements. Of the two or more character elements there are at least one base character element and one or more combining character character elements as illustrated by the examples shown in .

In step for each received combining character sequence particular embodiments determine whether a mapping code based on the character encoding system exists for the combining character sequence. Table 2 below illustrates an example table storing combining character sequences associated with mapping codes and corresponding glyphs.

In particular embodiments a separate set of mapping codes may exist for each character encoding system utilized on the client device. Mapping codes may be stored in a table in cache memory as part of a user session in a database in persistent storage or in any other form of data store on the user s device. Types of data stores for a client device are described in further detail with respect to and corresponding text in the specification. In particular embodiments where the mapping codes are stored in a database table the database table may be indexed according to the combining character sequences.

If a mapping code already exists for the combining character sequence in step particular embodiments retrieve the mapping code for the combining character sequence from the data store on the client device. In step particular embodiments retrieve the glyph for the combining character sequence based on the mapping code. The glyph may also be stored on the client device.

If a new mapping code needs to be created for the combining character sequence in step particular embodiments determine a new mapping code for the combining character sequence and store the new mapping code in association with the combining character sequence. In step particular embodiments request a new glyph for the combining character sequence and store the new glyph on the client device in association with the mapping code. In particular embodiments the request may be made to a server that renders the new glyph and sends it back to the client device. For example the client device may send a HTTP request to a server wherein the request comprises the combining character sequence at which point the server composes the corresponding character and generates a rasterized bitmap of the glyph which is then sent back to the client device. In particular embodiments software may exist on the client device itself that can compose the character corresponding to the combining character sequence and generate the glyph. The glyph may be stored in the same data store and or data structure as the mapping code or it may be stored in a related data store and or data structure.

In particular embodiments the character encoding system may reserve a range of codes for private use e.g. the Unicode private use code points in which case the next available code in this private use range may be utilized for the new mapping code.

In particular embodiments a new mapping code may be used for each graphical variant of a glyph e.g. different font sizes different font typefaces bold underline italic etc. . For example acute over may be stored using a different mapping code than acute over .

In step particular embodiments provide information to display the glyph on the client device. For example a bitmap of the glyph may be rendered for display in a manner appropriate to the display capabilities of the client device.

In particular embodiments where mapping codes for combining character sequences are stored in a data store on the client device there may be a need to continually or periodically remove old listings or entirely clear out or refresh the mapping codes. In one example in embodiments where mapping codes are stored on a per user per session basis all mapping codes may be flushed at the end of each user session. In another example only the most frequently used mapping codes may be retained in more persistent storage and all others cleared from a cache. In another example mapping codes may be assigned an expiration date. Any conventional algorithm for determining how to manage the storage of mapping codes may be utilized. If storage space is not an issue there may be no need to remove old mapping codes and their corresponding glyphs.

In step particular embodiments may determine which stored mapping codes to clear from the client device e.g. if there is a need to reclaim storage space for other purposes . For example any mapping code that has not been used in the last month may be deemed no longer useful to retain. In step particular embodiments clear one or more perhaps all of the mapping codes and possibly the corresponding glyphs from the client device.

In particular embodiments if the user is part of the social networking system the creation and or maintenance of mapping codes and corresponding glyphs may be based on social networking factors assessed by the social networking system in relation to usage statistics. When the social networking system determines that particular users may require new mapping codes to be generated in association with certain new combining character sequences the social networking system may send notifications to the client devices associated with those particular users so that mapping codes can be pre emptively created for those new combining character sequences. In addition if required a server may generate and push out the corresponding glyphs to those client devices that cannot generate the glyphs on their own. In such embodiments where mapping codes and glyphs are pre emptively created and or stored management of the client side data store for such mapping codes and glyphs may become more important.

New mapping codes may be generated in association with combining character sequences that are or are predicted to be popular with users of the social networking system that have profile characteristics similar to the user s profile age gender location groups school interests . For example 13 17 year old students who attend public high schools in a particular county may adopt new slang that requires one or more particular combining character sequences. In another example 25 40 year old professionals working in a particular industry may coin a neologism that requires one or more particular combining character sequences. In this case glyphs corresponding to those new combining character sequences may also be pushed out to users who fit the profile of users using those new combining character sequences in anticipation that they may also begin using the combining character sequence soon. New mapping codes may also be generated in association with combining character sequences often used by users of the social networking system that are connected to the user in association with a social graph. For example if a critical mass of the user s first degree connections have all recently begun using a particular combining character sequence the glyph corresponding to that combining character sequence may also be pushed out to the user.

New mapping codes may also be generated in association with combining character sequences that appear in social networking content or other information generated by social connections of the user. For example if many users having similar interest as the user or belonging to the same group as the user have begun tagging particular types of photos with a new combining character sequence or posting status updates with the new combining character sequence the social networking system may anticipate that the user may also adopt the new combining character sequence. New mapping codes may also be generated in association with combining character sequences that appear in third party content or other information associated with the user or social connections of the user. For example if a particular music video published by an entertainment company goes viral e.g. PSY s Gangnam Style or the social networking system may then determine that social networking users who upload like or comment on the video may be inclined to start using new combining character sequences detected in the video.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may also maintain a multi dimensional table to track the various social networking factors in relation to usage statistics for new combining character sequences. In particular embodiments client devices may transmit usage statistics and or a usage history back to the social networking system.

The client device may receive combining character sequences from different sources such as input typed by a user into client computing device content retrieved from a third party server content retrieved from social networking system or notifications regarding new combining character sequences pushed out by social networking system .

The client device may then attempt to look up mapping codes and glyphs for the new combining character sequences . If client device determines that mapping codes does not currently exist for the new combining character sequences then client device may create the mapping codes and send a request for corresponding glyphs based on the combining character sequences to a third party server . Note for the purposes of this diagram the third party server has been depicted as both providing new combining character sequences and also as providing new glyphs however in practice these two functions may be performed by separate and completely unrelated systems. Once the client device receives the glyphs it can then provide the glyphs for display and store them on client device .

In particular embodiments where notifications regarding new combining character sequences have been pushed out by social networking system client device may send back usage statistics regarding the user s use of combining character sequences to social networking system in order to facilitate data collection to support the social networking factors.

Although the embodiments disclosed herein describe the mapping codes as being stored on the client device in particular embodiments a set of mapping codes may be maintained on a server in association with a profile for the user of the client device. In particular embodiments sets of mapping codes may be determined by a server or on client devices for users in particular locations e.g. according to the state country borders particular self identified groups of users users with particular demographic profiles users associated with particular organizations etc.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages or one or more user profile pages which may be webpages .

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a webpage.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes paritcular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplate any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system another mobile computing device or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments I O interface may include additional hardware software or both to support one or more sensors to provide additional information such as for example and without limitation a touch sensor disposed for example on a display of the device the back of the device and or one or more lateral edges of the device for detecting a user touching the surface of the mobile electronic device e.g. using one or more fingers an accelerometer for detecting whether the personal computing device is moving and the speed of the movement a thermometer for measuring the temperature change near the personal computing device a proximity sensor for detecting the proximity of the personal computing device to another object e.g. a hand desk or other object a light sensor for measuring the ambient light around the personal computing device an imaging sensor e.g. camera for capturing digital still images and or video of objects near the personal computing device e.g. scenes people bar codes QR codes etc. a location sensor e.g. Global Positioning System GPS for determining the location e.g. in terms of latitude and longitude of the mobile electronic device a sensor for detecting communication networks within close proximity e.g. near field communication NFC Bluetooth RFID infrared a chemical sensor a biometric sensor for biometrics based e.g. fingerprint palm vein pattern hand geometry iris retina DNA face voice olfactory sweat authentication of a user etc.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network or an antenna. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

