---

title: System and method for providing supplemental information related to media content
abstract: A method of providing supplemental information synchronized with a piece of media content being played and related to a current state of the piece of media content being played is provided. The supplemental information may be transmitted to an electronic device in synchronization with the playing of the piece of media content on an audio/visual display interface. The method includes receiving identifying information from the electronic device and/or the audio/visual display interface, storing the identifying information in an active device table, receiving a viewing initiation notification, and transmitting the supplemental information to the electronic device in response to the viewing initiation notification. The electronic device may also transmit a request to begin playing the piece of media content. Transmission of the supplemental information may be paused, stopped, or resumed in synchronization with the piece of media content being played.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614878&OS=09614878&RS=09614878
owner: REDBOX AUTOMATED RETAIL, LLC
number: 09614878
owner_city: Oakbrook Terrace
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120817
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 525 684 filed Aug. 19 2011 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION RELATED TO MEDIA CONTENT and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to a system and method for providing supplemental information related to media content. More particularly the present invention provides a system and method for transmitting supplemental information to an electronic device where the supplemental information is synchronized with a piece of media content being played and is related to a current state of the piece of media content being played.

While the present invention is often described herein with reference to a digital video disc Blu Ray disc and video game distribution system an application to which the present invention is advantageously suited it will be readily apparent that the present invention is not limited to that application and can be employed in article dispensing systems used to distribute a wide variety of dispensable articles.

The digital video disc DVD player has been one of the most successful consumer electronics product launches in history. The market for DVD movie video Blu Ray movie video and video game rentals is enormous and growing. Millions of households have acquired DVDs since they were introduced in 1997. In the first quarter of 2003 alone it was estimated that well over three million DVD players were shipped to U.S. retailers.

In 2003 brick and mortar stores dominated the movie video and video game rental landscape in the U.S. Statistics showed that two brick and mortar companies controlled nearly sixty five percent of the home video rental business. One element repeatedly cited for success of certain brick and mortar store video rental franchises was perceived high availability of new video releases. Consumers want entertainment on demand and through stocking multiple units of each new release successful brick and mortar companies meet this consumer demand.

The foregoing indicates that there is a significant market potential for aligning regular routines of consumers e.g. shopping getting coffee or gas or going to a convenience store with their DVD Blu Ray and video game rental activities.

One improved article dispensing machine is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The invention of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can function as an article dispensing machine based distribution system that will typically have multiple units of each new release per article dispensing machine. The dispensing machines of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can stock up to two thousand DVDs Blu Ray video games or other discs movies games or other entertainment content making the system competitive with existing brick and mortar video rental superstores.

The dispensing machine and system of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention distinguishes itself from such stores by offering major benefits not conventionally offered by such stores including additional cross marketing programs e.g. promotional rentals for a certain amount of dollars spent at the retail location and convenience e.g. open always .

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention yields a competitive advantage in the DVD Blu Ray disc and video game rental marketplace by offering consumers cross marketing promotional programs convenience of selection e.g. computer based searches for movies and recommendations based on consumer profiles and potentially extended hours. The present invention employs a more cost effective convenient platform than brick and mortar stores. In addition with the present invention dispensing machines can be situated in retail locations having high foot traffic such as at a popular grocery store restaurant drug store and or other popular retail location.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can be operated at a substantial savings over the costs associated with traditional brick and mortar video rental stores. For example the present invention does not require hourly employees manning the dispensing machines or restocking them with inventories due to the ability of the article transport storage units to be delivered to picked up from retail locations by third party delivery services such as traditional or contracted courier services.

Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention does not require an on site store manager because all operational decisions can be made at a centralized location by a management team officed remote from the retail locations. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention does not require significant physical space. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention has low operating costs because no heating or air conditioning is required for the dispensing machines and they consume a relatively low level of electrical energy. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 has low maintenance costs and downtime.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention addresses the shortcomings of traditional brick and mortar stores in a convenient and cost effective delivery vehicle having the added bonus of serving as an effective promotional platform that drives incremental sales to retail locations. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention overcomes these disadvantages by at least offering more new releases and older selections for any given time period and lower cost per viewing with significantly more convenience than Internet based and pay per view services.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention is a fully automated integrated DVD Blu Ray and video game rental and or purchase systems. It preferably incorporates robust secure scalable software that provides a fully personalized user experience and real time feedback to retail locations and advertisers scalable hardware that leverages existing technologies such as touch screen focused audio speakers and video monitors technology utilizing the Internet through a system website or mobile consumer electronics device application and an article transport storage unit that facilitates the exchange of new discs for old discs in each machine with virtually no need for human intervention. These technologies and others fill long felt needs in the art and give advantages over conventional video distribution options. The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention functions as much as a promotional platform as it does a rental kiosk.

By utilizing the dispensing machines and the fully interactive real time linked Internet website or mobile consumer electronics device applications consumers can rent one or more DVDs Blu Ray discs video games or other entertainment content directly from dispensing machines as well as indirectly by making a rental reservation through the website or application for later pickup at a conveniently located machine. These dispensing machines are preferably networked with each other with the inventory control and or supply office and with the system website or application by phone line DSL wireless network or other Internet connection at each retail location. Through this linked network the rental experience for each consumer can be customized based on a profile for each consumer such as via personalized home pages and rental screens.

Existing systems may provide access on an electronic device to bonus material related to a movie on a DVD or Blu Ray disc such as deleted scenes trailers and director commentary. However the bonus material accessible on the electronic device is the same as the bonus material that already exists on the disc containing the movie. A user may access the bonus material on the electronic device but the bonus material is not synchronized to a viewing of the movie. In addition the bonus material is limited to the static content on the DVD or Blu Ray disc. Moreover other existing systems may provide information related to a piece of media content on the same screen that is displaying the piece of media content. For example an offer to purchase a product that is being shown in a movie could be displayed on a television screen that is also displaying the movie. However information that is displayed on the screen may be displeasing to a viewer because of the distraction and clutter that the information creates on the screen.

The present invention allows for providing supplemental information related to a piece of media content to an electronic device. The supplemental information can be synchronized to the piece of media content and can be related to a current state of the piece of media content. The supplemental information may be transmitted to the electronic device automatically in response to the start of play of the piece of media content on an audio visual display interface. Alternately a user can manually start transmission of the supplemental information by simultaneously indicating that playing of the piece of media content has begun. Playing the piece of media content may also be requested by a user through the electronic device. The present invention overcomes disadvantages of existing systems by providing supplemental information that is not necessarily already available and by transmitting the supplemental information to an electronic device separate from the audio visual display interface that is displaying the piece of media content. Moreover the present invention transmits the supplemental information in synchronization with the piece of media content being played and ensures that the supplemental information is related to a current state of the piece of media content. Other features and advantages are provided by the following description and drawings.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiments in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail preferred embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of the invention to the embodiments illustrated.

As shown in each article dispensing machine includes a dispensing machine processor also referred to herein as a vending controller which is connected to a first sensor and a second sensor a first motor and a second motor and a user interface control system collectively referred to as the peripheral devices. The processor is capable of executing various programs to provide input to and or receive outputs from the peripheral devices. Suitable processors for such use are known to those of skill in the art. In addition the processor is operably connected to at least one memory storage device such as a hard drive or flash drive or other suitable memory storage device.

Article dispensing machine memory storage device can include any one or a combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover article dispensing machine memory storage device may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Article dispensing machine memory storage device can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but are still accessed by processor. Article dispensing machine memory storage device includes an article dispensing machine database .

The article dispensing machines preferably comprise a network of machines in communication with one another. As shown in in the preferred configuration the article dispensing machines are networked with one another via a central server or central controller in a hub and spoke system. However optionally the article dispensing machines may be connected and communicate directly with one another and or subsets of article dispensing machines may communicate with one another directly as well as with the central server .

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the central server and the content provider backend shown in include a central processor and or controller central memory and one or more input and or output I O devices or peripherals that are communicatively coupled via a local interface. The architecture of the central server is set forth in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Numerous variations of the architecture of the central server and the content provider backend would be understood by one of skill in the art and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

The processor controller is a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the server a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80x86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc. or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation. The processor may also represent a distributed processing architecture such as but not limited to SQL Smalltalk APL KLisp Snobol Developer 200 MUMPS Magic.

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs. The separate programs comprise ordered listings of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in memory includes a suitable operating system O S . A non exhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers smartphones or personal digital assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. Windows CE or Windows Phone available from Microsoft Corporation iOS available from Apple Inc Android available from Google Inc. BlackBerry OS available from Research in Motion Limited Symbian available from Nokia Corp. . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

Steps and or elements and or portions thereof of the present invention may be implemented using a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program the program needs to be translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system O S . Furthermore the software embodying the present invention can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedural programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C Pascal Basic Fortran Cobol Perl Java Ada and Lua.

When article dispensing machine is in operation the article dispensing machine processor is configured to execute software stored within article dispensing machine memory to communicate data to and from the dispensing machine memory and to generally control operations of article dispensing machine pursuant to the software. The software aspects of the present invention and the O S in whole or in part but typically the latter are read by processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the present invention or aspects thereof are implemented in software it should be noted that the software can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. The present invention can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

For communication with the central server article dispensing machine is equipped with network communication equipment and circuitry. In a preferred embodiment the network communication equipment includes a network card such as an Ethernet card. In a preferred network environment each of the plurality of article dispensing machines on the network is configured to use the TCP IP protocol to communicate via the network . It will be understood however that a variety of network protocols could also be employed such as IPX SPX Netware PPP and others. It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the present invention is for article dispensing machine to have a broadband connection to the network the principles of the present invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

The central controller communicates with the article dispensing machine controllers via the network . The central controller is preferably located at a central station or office that is remote from the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller can operate as the server for communicating over the network between the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller receives communications and information from the article dispensing machines and also transmits communications and information to the machines . For example when a rental transaction is performed at the article dispensing machine transaction data such as the rented title is then transmitted from the machine to the central controller via the network . It will be understood that central servers in general such as the central controller are often distributed. A plurality of central servers controllers may optionally be arranged in load balanced architecture to improve the speed and efficiency of the network. To accomplish the implementation of multiple controllers the controllers may be in communication with a router distributor .

The central controller is also in communication with a central database . The central database stores information regarding the transaction network. For example the central database stores data regarding the vending inventory at each of the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central database also stores sales information regarding the sales quantities of the vending merchandise stored in the machines . For example the central database stores information regarding the sales totals for each title and for each machine vending location. Central database also stores user information and rental transaction information such as user IDs the date on which discs are due to be returned the date on which discs were rented from the machines and a list of valid coupon codes and restrictions associated with those codes. In certain embodiments central database also may be configured to store user PINs. Some of this information is also preferably stored in article dispensing machine database .

Central database and databases in the content provider backend such as the content provider customer profile database and other databases are preferably relational databases although other types of database architectures may be used without departing from the principles of the present invention. For example the databases and may be a SQL database an Access database or an Oracle database and in any such embodiment have the functionality stored herein. Central database is also preferably capable of being shared as illustrated between a plurality of central controllers and its information is also preferably capable of being transmitted via network . It will be understood that a variety of methods exist for serving the information stored in central database and database . In one embodiment .net and Microsoft Reporting Services are employed however other technologies such as ODBC MySQL CFML and the like may be used.

The central controller central database and components of the content provider backend are also accessible by an electronic device which may include a personal computer mobile device e.g. smartphone personal digital assistant etc. tablet computer video game console television and Blu Ray player . The electronic device may be in direct or indirect communication with the central controller central database and or the content provider backend through a wired and or wireless network connection such as Ethernet Wi Fi cellular 3G 4G etc. or other type of connection. As a personal computer the electronic device will be understood as comprising hardware and software consistent with marketable personal and laptop computers such as a display monitor a keyboard and a microprocessor. The electronic device may also comprise Internet browser software such as Firefox Internet Explorer Chrome or Safari. Using the browser software a user of the electronic device can access a web interface through the central controller . An application may also execute on the electronic device that accesses the central controller . To that end central controller preferably comprises web server software such as IIS or Apache. It will be understood that a variety of web server software and web browser software exists to implement the principles of the present invention without departing therefrom. Through the web browser software or application the electronic device communicates with the central controller and allows the user to login to a central command functionality of the central controller and to view and modify data stored in the central database . The browser interface or application also allows the user to perform certain system functions which will affect the inventory and behavior of the article dispensing machines . The electronic device may communicate with the central controller central database components of the system backend and components of the content provider backend using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

In a preferred embodiment a financial server is also in communication with the network . It will be understood that a variety of financial services exist for processing financial information via the Internet and other networks . Those services allow for the processing of credit card and debit card information so that users of the services do not have to interface directly with credit and debit card companies. In the financial server is illustrated as a single server although the financial server may comprise an entire sub network of financial servers responsible for processing financial information.

As shown in article dispensing machine includes a machine housing with front rear top bottom and side panels. The machine housing is preferably a combination molded fiberglass and sheet metal cabinet. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the housing can be constructed from a variety of other suitable materials and with a variety of other suitable manufacturing techniques.

As shown most clearly in a user interface portion of housing includes a card reader a keypad and or touch screen and an article transfer opening . The card reader is preferably designed in known fashion to read magnetically encoded membership and or credit debit cards for authorizing the distribution of articles of inventory through the article transfer opening . Keypad and or touch screen permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to communicate with the dispensing machine and or a central office linked in electrical communication with the dispensing machine. Keypad and or touch screen also permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to enter appropriate commands directed to carrying out specific machine tasks. It will be appreciated that the optional touch screen includes a monitor made with known technologies making it capable of being utilized as a user interface for entry of commands designed to carry out machine tasks. The touch screen may also be capable of displaying a QR Quick Response code to a customer. The customer may read the QR code with a camera on a mobile device or with a dedicated QR code reader. The QR code can represent a universal resource locator URL to access a digital media selection for example.

Furthermore it will be appreciated that additional user interface portions having additional or even identical user interface components could be incorporated within article dispensing machine . For example these components could be incorporated on other panels of the housing of machine so that the machine can be used simultaneously by multiple consumers translating into more efficient distribution of articles in high traffic areas. Dispensing machine also preferably includes speaker units. Known audio technology may be incorporated within dispensing machine to broadcast focused audio directed to relatively small e.g. three square feet locations in front of the machines from speaker units and or in other designated locations at a retail site.

The system backend includes components that primarily communicate information such as transaction and inventory data to and from the article dispensing machines . Components in the system backend also communicate information to and from the electronic device the content provider backend and the A V display interface . The system backend is detailed below with reference to . The content provider backend includes components that primarily communicate information to and from the A V display interface . Components in the content provider backend also communicate information to and from the system backend as detailed further below. Data communicated between the article dispensing machines the electronic device the system backend the content provider backend and or the A V display interface may utilize the XML Extensible Markup Language format. The electronic device and the A V display interface may communicate with the system backend and or the content provider backend using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

The A V display interface can be a set top box a module of an internet ready television a Blu Ray player with internet connectability a software application executing on a mobile device cable television converter box satellite television set top box IPTV Internet Protocol television set top box including AT T U Verse digital video recorder tablet computer video game console including Microsoft Xbox family Sony PlayStation family Nintendo Wii and similar devices handheld gaming device including Sony PlayStation Portable Nintendo DS and similar devices laptop computer desktop computer streaming media box including Apple TV Google TV Roku Boxee and similar devices or any other device capable of receiving and displaying streaming on demand and or downloadable electronic media from a content provider. Moreover applications may be installed and executed on the A V display interface that communicate with the system backend and or the content provider backend to provide media content and other information to a user of the A V display interface . Applications may also be installed and executed on the electronic device that communicate with the system backend .

The article dispensing machines can communicate with the system backend including the central server and controller via network communication equipment and circuitry as detailed above. Furthermore the system backend can communicate with the content provider backend and the A V display interface via the same or different network communication equipment and circuitry. The electronic device detailed above may also be in communication with components of the system backend via the same or different network communication equipment and circuitry. In particular the system backend can directly communicate with the electronic device the content provider backend the A V display interface or in one embodiment the system backend can communicate with the A V display interface through the content provider backend . It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the present invention is for the components of the system to have a broadband connection with one another the principles of the present invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

Each of the article dispensing machines may operate without requiring continuous connectivity and communication with the central controller . In one embodiment the central controller only transmits data in response to communication from an article dispensing machine . For example an article dispensing machine may attempt to communicate with the central controller following completion of one or more rental transactions or one or more media article return transactions. In another embodiment the article dispensing machine continues normal operations and transactions even if communication is interrupted or cannot be established with the central controller . In these cases transaction data can be stored locally in the article dispensing machine such as in the article dispensing machine memory storage device until a predetermined time interval elapses when a predetermined number of transactions is reached or until communication with the central controller can be reestablished. Once communication is established with the central controller financial and inventory information can be uploaded and the appropriate servers and databases can be updated.

In one embodiment the article dispensing machine can display only media articles which are physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this way a customer may browse on the user interface only the media articles which are in stock and available to rent at that article dispensing machine . Typically the article dispensing machine possesses media information for the media articles that are currently located in the article dispensing machine . The media information for a media article includes title actor director studio publisher plot synopsis format description parental rating individualized ratings and reviews popularity article type running time genre cover artwork or other information. The article dispensing machine can also store in memory the media information for recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine . The article dispensing machine can communicate with the central controller when media information about a particular media article is needed. For example when a particular media article is returned to an article dispensing machine that does not have the corresponding media information for that particular media article the article dispensing machine can query the central controller metadata database and or inventory database for the media information. Once the media information is obtained the article dispensing machine may display that particular media article on the user interface as in stock and available to rent.

In another embodiment the article dispensing machine can display media articles that are both physically located and not physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this embodiment media articles which are both available and unavailable to rent can be displayed. A media article may be unavailable to rent if it is not in stock or is in stock but has been reserved for rental. In one example the entire catalog of media articles stored in the inventory database can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . In another example a subset of the entire catalog of media articles can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . The subset of media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may be determined for example based on geographic location retailer agreements contractual obligations customer rental habits and other criteria. The media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may include recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine or media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine . For example media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine may be displayed because those media articles may be available at a nearby article dispensing machine. In this case those media articles may be displayed to the customer so that the customer has an option to obtain those media articles from the nearby article dispensing machine . In this embodiment if a customer attempts to rent a media article that is out of stock reserved for another customer or otherwise cannot be vended at the particular article dispensing machine then that media article can be deemed an unavailable media article. Although a physical unavailable media article cannot be rented from the particular article dispensing machine a digital alternative media selection may be available and substituted for the unavailable media article.

The identification and authentication controller can receive a unique customer identifier that a customer provides to the article dispensing machines during a rental transaction. The unique customer identifier can be a credit or debit card number a hashed version of a credit or debit card number or other unique identifier used for payment and or identification purposes. In the case of hashing of the credit or debit card number the hash function applied to the credit or debit card number is preferably implemented on the article dispensing machines and may be for example a SHA 256 hashing algorithm. The identification and authentication controller can validate the payment capability of a credit or debit card by communicating with the financial server .

A customer may be authenticated to multiple customer profiles and accounts by the identification and authentication controller . The unique customer identifier provided by the customer can authenticate the customer to an existing customer profile and account for the article dispensing machines . The existing customer profile and account can be stored and looked up using the unique customer identifier in the customer profile database that is connected to the identification and authentication controller . The unique customer identifier can also link the existing customer account to a content provider customer account via a connection from the customer profile database to the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend as shown in . Zero one or more content provider customer accounts may be linked in the customer profile database to the existing customer account for the article dispensing machines . A content provider may include but is not limited to a cable television operator a satellite television service provider an IPTV Internet Protocol television provider an online gaming and digital media delivery service Xbox Live PlayStation Network OnLive etc. a website YouTube Hulu etc. a movie studio a television network a game publisher or a retailer Best Buy Walmart etc. . Media selections available from a content provider may include videos on demand streaming videos downloadable videos streaming video games or downloadable video games. The media selections may be available through the A V display interface that is in communication with the content provider backend .

A user may also provide identifying information including a unique customer identifier to an electronic device and or an A V display interface for initiating the transmission of supplemental information to the electronic device . The supplemental information may be synchronized and related to a piece of media content being played and is described in more detail below. The identifying information can be received by the identification and authentication controller . As described above the unique customer identifier can authenticate a user to a customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier may include a username and or password a cookie or other identifier for authenticating the user. In addition to a unique customer identifier the identifying information may include a device identifier and or a device type that tracks whether a user operating the electronic device or the A V display interface is actively logged in. The device identifier may include an IP address a MAC address or other unique identifier of the electronic device or A V display interface . The device type may include a type of device e.g. television Blu Ray player mobile device etc. brand model number or other information about the electronic device or A V display interface . The identifying information may be stored in an active device table. The active device table may be maintained by a supplemental information server . It is understood by those in the art that an IP address is a numerical label assigned to any device participating in a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. It is also understood by those in the art that a MAC address is a unique hexadecimal identifier assigned to a network interface of a device. The MAC address of the electronic device or the A V display interface for example may be associated with a customer profile that contains information regarding where to transmit the supplemental information.

The customer profile database can contain information related to customers of the article dispensing machines including name mailing and billing addresses email addresses phone and mobile numbers username password payment methods rental history purchase history preferred article dispensing machines movie and video game genre preferences customizations subscriptions parental controls linked content provider accounts content provider subscriptions and entitlements and other data. A rental transaction can be personalized using information from the customer profile database at the article dispensing machines and a website interface . For example only certain genres and titles of DVDs Blu Ray discs or video games could be shown if a customer sets particular preferences that are then stored in the customer profile database . Some of the information stored in the customer profile database may also be stored in the article dispensing machine database . The customer profile database may include a service which facilitates interfacing and communicating with a notification engine and other components of the system backend for example.

The website interface can be interactive and accessible to a customer using web browser software at an electronic device . The website interface may also include a mobile application or consumer electronics device application. Rentable media articles may be searched browsed and reserved on the website interface for receipt at the article dispensing machines . The location of and the inventory at article dispensing machines can be viewed at the website interface . Digital media selections from content providers such as streaming downloadable and on demand media may also be searched browsed and accessed on the website interface . A customer can access their customer profile on the website interface for purposes of verifying and updating their personal information in the customer profile database . For example a customer can link an account they have with a content provider on the website interface by specifying their username password account number and or other identifying information for the content provider account. The system backend can utilize SAML Security Assertion Markup Language OAuth Open Authentication or other protocols to authenticate the identity of the customer at the content provider via a connection from the website interface to the content provider identification and authentication controller in the content provider backend as shown in . If the identifying information matches the content provider account the linkage to the content provider account can be stored in the customer profile database .

An inventory database may contain a catalog of physical media articles that may be rented at the article dispensing machines and reserved at the website interface for later receipt at the article dispensing machines . A catalog of digital media selections available at the content provider can be contained in the metadata database . Metadata for the media articles and media selections are stored in the metadata database including title release date running time chapter information technical details resolution audio options languages etc. format peripheral device requirements number of players online capability actors voice actors director studio publisher developer platform availability of downloadable content episode information genre critic ratings individualized ratings reviews recommendations likes etc. parental ratings MPAA ESRB TV Parental Guidelines etc. description related content media artwork media stills language and other information.

Physical media articles that may be rented at the article dispensing machines and digital media selections available at the content provider may be synchronized and mapped to one another by matching their respective metadata. As seen in a synchronization and mapping engine connected to the customer profile database the metadata database and the content provider asset management system in the content provider backend may compare the metadata for the media articles and media selections to determine matches. Metadata in the content provider asset management system for media selections can be compared to metadata in the metadata database to perform the matching. For example a combination of a title release date running time and or actor information can be used to map a media article to a corresponding media selection. In one embodiment proprietary identification codes unique to a media article and a media selection can be used to map the media article to the corresponding media selection. The proprietary identification codes for the media article and the media selection can be stored in the metadata database and the content provider asset management system respectively. Such proprietary identification codes can be assigned to media articles and media selections by third party providers such as Rovi Baseline and AMG.

A media selection at a content provider can be placed in the saved programs queue on the A V display interface as shown in by providing the appropriate instructions to the content provider asset management system in the content provider backend . Queuing a media selection may occur for example when a customer decides to purchase the digital media selection from the content provider in place of a physical media article at an article dispensing machine .

An inventory database can be connected to the article dispensing machine and the metadata database to provide information regarding the availability of media articles in the article dispensing machines . In conjunction with a search engine the inventory database and the metadata database can provide inventory results for media articles and media selections to an A V display interface application on an A V display interface as shown in . Such results may include the availability of physical media articles at the article dispensing machines as well as digital media selections available at a content provider. The results may also be provided to the website interface or other websites operated by a content provider for example. The synchronization and mapping engine can store the information from the content provider asset management system regarding media selections at the content provider in the metadata database . The inventory database can also supply the availability of media articles in the article dispensing machines to the website interface or to other portals such as an application on a mobile device when queried.

A metadata database watcher can monitor the metadata database for changes in metadata related to media articles and media selections. The metadata database watcher can use customer watchlist subscriptions from a customer profile in the customer profile database to determine what changes to monitor. The changes to the metadata can include inventory availability content provider availability release schedules and other information related to a particular title. The customer watchlist subscriptions can be used by the metadata database watcher to monitor these changes in combination with information regarding particular actors directors and or other metadata. When a change corresponding to a customer watchlist subscription is found by the metadata database watcher a notification engine can transmit notifications and details of the change to the customer. The notifications may be sent via email SMS mobile application alerts A V display interface alerts or other electronic channels.

A customer may also subscribe to be notified about new information and new media content related to their favorite actors directors titles studios and or other parameters using customer notification subscriptions. Such information may include information related to live performances television appearances newspaper and magazine articles blogs and other content. A web crawler and data feed can obtain this information by searching pertinent websites and through use of a public API connection to update the metadata database . The customer can subscribe to this information about their favorites at the website interface for example. The metadata database watcher monitoring the metadata database can detect when there is a new piece of information about a favorite and transmit the desired notifications using the notification engine .

A supplemental information server can be connected to the electronic device the content provider backend and the A V display interface to control and provide supplemental information to the electronic device in synchronization with a piece of media content being played. The supplemental information may also be related to a current state of the piece of media content. In conjunction with the identification and authentication controller the supplemental information server may track whether the electronic device and or the A V display interface are actively logged in. The supplemental information server may also receive notifications related to whether viewing of a piece of media content has started stopped paused or resumed. Requests may also be received by the supplemental information server from the electronic device to start stop pause or resume the piece of media content at the A V display interface . Signals to start stop pause or resume the piece of media content may also be transmitted indirectly to the A V display interface through the content provider backend . Applications may be installed and executed on the electronic device and or the A V display interface to facilitate providing the supplemental information. In one embodiment an application may be present on a Blu Ray disc and may be installed for execution on a Blu Ray player when the Blu Ray disc is played on the Blu Ray player.

An embodiment of a process for providing supplemental information related to a piece of media content that is initiated by receiving a viewing initiation notification is shown in . The process can result in the supplemental information server transmitting supplemental information to an electronic device where the supplemental information is synchronized with the piece of media content and is related to a current state of the piece of media content. The transmission of the supplemental information can be stopped paused and or resumed using the process . Media content may include physical media articles digital media selections or live content e.g. sports events newscasts television shows etc. . The physical media articles may include media articles that are distributable from an article dispensing machine . The supplemental information transmitted to the electronic device can include for example related metadata e.g. trivia filming details interesting facts relationships to other media content etc. magazine and news articles blog postings internet links related or similar media content transaction offers sponsored information advertisements interactive or actionable advertisements contextual information e.g. sports statistics localized weather etc. store availability user generated notations etc. that are related to the piece of media content that is being played as well as related to the current state of the piece of media content. In one embodiment supplemental information created by one user such as a user generated notation related to a current state of the piece of media content may be viewed by other users. The current state of the piece of media content may include an elapsed time a chapter identification a subtitle setting a language setting or other information that indicates the timeline and manner in which the piece of media content is being played.

Once the current state of the piece of media content being played is determined the supplemental information server can determine supplemental information that is relevant to a person location building etc. currently being shown music currently being played specific dialogue being spoken and other information in the piece of media content. As an example if the piece of media content being played is a movie the supplemental information may include a Wikipedia article about an actor that is currently showing at a particular point in the movie. As another example the supplemental information may include a transaction offer to purchase a digital copy of a song that is currently playing at another point in the movie. As a further example if the piece of media content being played is a live sports event the supplemental information may include statistics of the players being shown. The supplemental information server may retrieve the supplemental information from a memory or database that may be part of the central database from the Internet and or from another memory or database at a remote location. The supplemental information may be derived from one or more sources.

At step identifying information may be received at the identification and authentication controller . The identifying information can authenticate a user so that supplemental information is transmitted in synchronization with a piece of media content being played. Identifying information may be received from an electronic device and or an A V display interface and may include a unique customer identifier a device identifier and or a device type as discussed above. The identifying information from the electronic device and the identifying information from the A V display interface may be received separately or at the same time. In some embodiments only identifying information from the electronic device may be needed to initiate transmission of the supplemental information. An embodiment of step in the process is discussed in more detail below in reference to the process shown in .

The identifying information may be stored by the supplemental information server in an active device table at step . The active device table can track whether a user is logged in from the electronic device and or the A V display interface . The active device table may be stored in the supplemental information server . Information in the active device table may be used at step for example to determine if the unique customer identifiers received from the electronic device and the A V display interface correspond to one another. Information in the active device table may also be used to determine where to transmit the supplemental information such as by using the IP address of the electronic device .

A viewing initiation notification may be received by the supplemental information server at step from the electronic device or the A V display interface . The viewing initiation notification can indicate that a piece of media content has started playing on the A V display interface . An embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step the viewing initiation notification may be received at the supplemental information server . In one embodiment the viewing initiation notification can be generated and transmitted automatically by the A V display interface when playing of the piece of media content has started. For example a user can begin playback of a Blu Ray disc on a Blu Ray player by pressing the play button on the Blu Ray player. As another example the electronic device may transmit an infrared or radio frequency signal to the Blu Ray player to begin playback of a Blu Ray disc. The Blu Ray player may then generate and transmit a viewing initiation notification to the supplemental information server . In another embodiment the viewing initiation notification can be transmitted manually from the electronic device to indicate that the user has manually started play of the piece of media content. For example a user may begin play of a digital video selection from a content provider and may simultaneously press a button on an application executing on the electronic device to indicate that the digital video selection has begun playing.

At step it may be determined by the supplemental information server whether the piece of media content being played is live content. Live content may include media content that is currently being broadcast or aired such as sports events newscasts television shows etc. In this case the viewing initiation notification may include a live content notification to inform the supplemental information server that the piece of media content that is playing on the A V display interface is live content. If the piece of media content being played is determined to be live content at step then the identity of the live content can be determined at step . The live content may be identified by the user by specifying the date time and or channel of the live content e.g. Jul. 1 2011 8 pm Central Daylight Time NBC. The user may also identify the live content by specifying the name and or episode of the live content e.g. World Series Game 5 The Office Stress Relief . A user may further identify live content by specifying a network e.g. CBS Discovery Channel etc. studio e.g. Sony Pictures Television NBC Universal etc. the length of the programming e.g. thirty minutes two hours etc. and or the status of the live content e.g. new repeat special etc. . The live content may also be identified automatically based on the audio or video of the live content such as by using IntoNow Shazam or similar services. Automatic identification of the live content may also be performed based on the channel number the A V display interface is tuned to and or the time and referencing an electronic program guide EPG database to identify the live content.

If the piece of media content is not determined to be live content at step then the process continues to step . At step it can be determined whether additional information is available that is related to the piece of media content being played such as metadata of the piece of media content or a transaction history of the user. The additional information may be transmitted with the viewing initiation notification at step . For example metadata may be transmitted from the electronic device and or the A V display interface which is related to the piece of media content being viewed. The transaction history may include the metadata related to media content that the user has rented purchased downloaded or streamed. The additional information may be used to determine the identity of the piece of media content. If additional information is available at step then at step the additional information is retrieved. For example the transaction history of the user may be retrieved from the customer profile database which may include the user s currently rented media articles e.g. DVDs and or Blu Ray discs . The media articles may include media articles that are distributable from an article dispensing machine . Following step or if no additional information is available at step the process continues to step .

At step the identity of the piece of media content being played may be determined. If additional information was retrieved at step the identity of the piece of media content may be determined at step based on the additional information. For example metadata such as a title or proprietary identification code of the DVD being played could be used to identify the piece of media content. As another example the user could select from their currently rented media articles based on their previously retrieved transaction history to confirm that the piece of media content being played is one of those media articles. As a further example the piece of media content may be identified based on the audio or video of the piece of media content such as by using IntoNow Shazam or similar services. The identity of the piece of media content may be used to determine the supplemental information to be transmitted later in the process . If additional information was not retrieved at step the identity of the piece of media content being played may be determined at step by manual input of the identity of the piece of media content by a user.

Returning to the process continues to step where it can be determined by the supplemental information server whether the unique customer identifiers in the active device table correspond to one another. As described above one or more unique customer identifiers may be received as part of identifying information received at step . If both the electronic device and the A V display interface have identifying information in the active device table then the unique customer identifiers for the respective devices can be compared at step . The unique customer identifiers may correspond to one another if they match or are associated with each other. For example if a first unique customer identifier received from an electronic device and a second unique customer identifier received from an A V display interface are present in the same customer profile for a particular user then the unique customer identifiers can be deemed to correspond to each other at step . If the active device table has only identifying information for the electronic device e.g. in the case of a manual start of play of the piece of media content the process may continue to step . If the unique customer identifiers do not correspond at step then the process returns to step where new or different identifying information may be received.

Following step the process continues to step where the supplemental information related to the piece of media content being played can be transmitted from the supplemental information server to the electronic device . The supplemental information may be synchronized with the piece of media content being played and may also be related to the current state of the piece of media content. The electronic device may receive the supplemental information continuously periodically or intermittently while the piece of media content is being played. An embodiment of step in the process is discussed in more detail below in reference to the process shown in .

The supplemental information server can determine at step if a viewing ending notification has been received. A viewing ending notification may be received if the piece of media content being played at the A V display interface has been stopped or paused. The A V display interface may generate and transmit the viewing ending notification automatically if the piece of media content being played has been stopped or paused at the A V display interface . The user may also transmit the viewing ending notification from the electronic device if the piece of media content being played has been manually stopped or paused. If a viewing ending notification is not received at step then the process returns to step and the supplemental information server may continue transmitting the supplemental information to the electronic device .

However if a viewing ending notification is received at step then the transmission of the supplemental information may be stopped at step . Continuing to step it can be determined if a viewing resumption notification has been received at the supplemental information server . A viewing resumption notification may be received if the piece of media content being played at the A V display interface has resumed. The A V display interface may generate and transmit the viewing resumption notification automatically if the piece of media content has been restarted or unpaused at the A V display interface . The user may also transmit the viewing resumption notification from the electronic device if the piece of media content has been manually restarted or unpaused. If a viewing resumption notification is received at step then the process returns to step to restart transmission of the supplemental information from the supplemental information server to the electronic device .

If a viewing resumption notification is not received at step then the process continues to step where it is determined if a viewing initiation notification has been received at the supplemental information server . A viewing initiation notification may be received at this point in the process if a new piece of media content is now being played. If a viewing initiation notification is received at step then the process returns to step to determine whether the unique customer identifiers correspond to one another as described above. However if a viewing initiation notification is not received at step then the process returns to step and continues not transmitting the supplemental information to the electronic device .

An embodiment of a process for providing supplemental information related to a piece of media content that is initiated by receiving a viewing initiation request is shown in . The process can result in the supplemental information server transmitting supplemental information to an electronic device where the supplemental information is synchronized with the piece of media content and is related to a current state of the piece of media content. The transmission of the supplemental information can be stopped paused and or resumed using the process . Media content may include physical media articles digital media selections or live content. The supplemental information transmitted to the electronic device can include for example metadata magazine and news articles blog postings internet links transaction offers store availability advertisements etc. that are related to the piece of media content that is being played as well as related to the current state of the piece of media content. The current state of the piece of media content may include an elapsed time a chapter identification a subtitle setting a language setting or other information that indicates the timeline and manner in which the piece of media content is being played.

Once the current state of the piece of media content being played is determined the supplemental information server can determine supplemental information that is relevant to a person location building etc. currently being shown music currently being played specific dialogue being spoken and other information in the piece of media content. The supplemental information server may retrieve the supplemental information from a memory or database that may be part of the central database from the Internet or from another memory or database at a remote location.

At step identifying information may be received at the identification and authentication controller . The identifying information can authenticate a user so that supplemental information is transmitted in synchronization with a piece of media content being played. Identifying information may be received from an electronic device and an A V display interface and may include a unique customer identifier a device identifier and or a device type as discussed above. The identifying information from the electronic device and the identifying information from the A V display interface may be received separately or at the same time. An embodiment of step in the process is discussed in more detail below in reference to the process shown in .

The identifying information may be stored by the supplemental information server in an active device table at step . The active device table can track whether a user is logged in from the electronic device and the A V display interface . The active device table may be stored in the supplemental information server . Information in the active device table may be used at step for example to determine if the unique customer identifiers received from the electronic device and the A V display interface correspond to one another. Information in the active device table may also be used to determine where to transmit the supplemental information such as by using the IP address of the electronic device .

A viewing initiation request may be received by the supplemental information server at step from the electronic device . The viewing initiation request can be a request to begin playing a piece of media content on the A V display interface . An embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step the viewing initiation request may be received at the supplemental information server from the electronic device . In one embodiment the viewing initiation request can be transmitted manually from the electronic device to indicate that the user wishes to begin playing a piece of media content on the A V display interface . For example a user may wish to start playback of a Blu Ray disc in a Blu Ray player by pressing a play button on an application executing on the electronic device rather than pressing the play button directly on the Blu Ray player itself.

At step it may be determined by the supplemental information server whether the piece of media content being played is live content including media content that is currently being broadcast or aired. In this case the viewing initiation request may include a live content notification to inform the supplemental information server that the piece of media content that is being played at the A V display interface is live content. If the piece of media content being played is determined to be live content at step then the identity of the live content can be determined at step . The live content may be identified by the user by specifying the date time and channel of the live content broadcast. The user may also identify the live content by specifying the name and or episode of the live content. The live content may also be identified automatically based on the audio or video of the live content such as by using IntoNow or similar services.

If the piece of media content is not determined to be live content at step then the process continues to step . At step it can be determined whether additional information is available that is related to the piece of media content being played such as metadata of the piece of media content or a transaction history of the user. The additional information may be transmitted with the viewing initiation request at step . For example metadata may be transmitted from the electronic device and or the A V display interface which is related to the piece of media content being viewed. The transaction history may include the metadata related to media content that the user has rented purchased downloaded or streamed. The additional information may be used to determine the identity of the piece of media content. If additional information is available at step then at step the additional information is retrieved. For example the transaction history of the user may be retrieved from the customer profile database which may include the user s currently rented media articles. Following step or if no additional information is available at step the process continues to step .

At step the identity of the piece of media content being played may be determined. If additional information was retrieved at step the identity of the piece of media content may be determined at step based on the additional information. For example metadata such as a title or proprietary identification code of the DVD being played could be used to identify the piece of media content. As another example the user could select from their currently rented media articles based on their previously retrieved transaction history to confirm that the piece of media content being played back is one of those media articles. The identity of the piece of media content may be used to determine the supplemental information to be transmitted later in the process . If additional information was not retrieved at step the identity of the piece of media content being played may be determined at step by manual input of the identity of the piece of media content by a user.

Returning to the process continues to step where it can be determined by the supplemental information server whether the unique customer identifiers in the active device table correspond to one another. As described above unique customer identifiers may be received as part of identifying information received at step . The unique customer identifiers associated with the electronic device and the A V display interface may be compared at step . The unique customer identifiers may correspond to one another if they match or are associated with each other. For example if a first unique customer identifier received from an electronic device and a second unique customer identifier received from an A V display interface are present in the same customer profile for a particular user then the unique customer identifiers can be deemed to correspond to each other at step . If the unique customer identifiers do not correspond at step then the process returns to step where new or different identifying information may be received.

Following step the process continues to step to transmit a play request from the supplemental information server to the A V display interface . The A V display interface can begin playing the piece of media content in response to receiving the play request. The play request may also be indirectly transmitted to the A V display interface through the content provider backend . At step the supplemental information related to the piece of media content being played can be transmitted to the electronic device . The supplemental information may be synchronized with the piece of media content being played and may also be related to the current state of the piece of media content. The electronic device may receive the supplemental information continuously periodically or intermittently while the piece of media content is being played. An embodiment of step in the process is discussed in more detail below in reference to the process shown in .

The supplemental information server can determine at step if a viewing ending request has been received from the electronic device . A viewing ending request can be a request to stop or pause the play of a piece of media content on the A V display interface . In particular the user may transmit the viewing ending request from the electronic device to indicate that the user wishes to stop or pause the play of the piece of media content. If a viewing ending request is not received at step then the process returns to step and the supplemental information server may continue transmitting the supplemental information to the electronic device .

However if a viewing ending request is received at step then a stoppage request may be transmitted at step from the supplemental information server to the A V display interface . The A V display interface can stop or pause the play of the piece of media content in response to receiving the stoppage request. The stoppage request may also be indirectly transmitted to the A V display interface through the content provider backend . At step the transmission of the supplemental information can be stopped from the supplemental information server . Continuing to step it can be determined if a viewing resumption request has been received at the supplemental information server . A viewing resumption request may be received from the electronic device to request resumption of the play of the piece of media content on the A V display interface . The user may transmit the viewing resumption request from the electronic device to indicate that the user wishes to restart or unpause the play of the piece of media content. If a viewing resumption request is received at step then the process returns to step to transmit a play request to the A V display interface . The play request may also be indirectly transmitted to the A V display interface through the content provider backend .

If a viewing resumption request is not received at step then the process continues to step where it is determined if a viewing initiation request has been received at the supplemental information server . A viewing initiation request may be received at this point in the process if the user wishes to begin playing a new piece of media content. If a viewing initiation request is received at step then the process returns to step to determine whether the unique customer identifiers correspond to one another as described above. However if a viewing initiation request is not received at step then the process returns to step and continues not transmitting the supplemental information to the electronic device .

An embodiment of a process for receiving identifying information from an electronic device or A V display interface is shown in . The process may be implemented as part of step of or step of . At step the supplemental information server may determine whether identifying information or a keep alive signal has been received from an electronic device and or an A V display interface . As described above identifying information may be received that includes a unique customer identifier a device identifier and or a device type for the purposes of initiating display of supplemental information on an electronic device . A keep alive signal may be periodically received at the supplemental information server that indicates that the electronic device or the A V display interface is still active and wants to continue to be logged into the supplemental information server . The keep alive signal may include all or some of the identifying information in order to identify the electronic device or the A V display interface .

If identifying information or a keep alive signal is received at step then the supplemental information server may determine at step whether identifying information for the electronic device or A V display interface is already present in the active device table. Identifying information for the electronic device or A V display interface may already be present in the active device table if the electronic device or A V display interface previously transmitted identifying information to the supplemental information server and the identifying information has not been removed from the active device table. If identifying information for the electronic device or A V display interface is already in the active device table at step then the pertinent identifying information is maintained in the active device table. In addition at step a timer corresponding to the electronic device or the A V display interface can be reset. The timer may be used at step to determine whether a predetermined timeout duration has elapsed which can result in the removal of the identifying information from the active device table for the electronic device or the A V display interface . If identifying information for the electronic device or A V display interface is not in the active device table at step then the identifying information can be stored in the active device table at step . Following step the time corresponding to the electronic device or the A V display interface can be reset at step .

Returning to step if identifying information or a keep alive signal is not received then the process continues to step to determine whether a predetermined timeout duration has elapsed for the timer corresponding to the electronic device and or the A V display interface . The predetermined timeout duration for the electronic device and the A V display interface may be the same or different. The predetermined timeout duration may be used to determine whether too much time has elapsed since the supplemental information server has received identifying information or a keep alive signal from the electronic device or the A V display interface . If the predetermined timeout duration has elapsed at step then the identifying information for the electronic device or the A V display interface may be removed from the active device table at step . If the timeout duration has not elapsed at step then the process returns to step to determine if identifying information or a keep alive signal has been received.

An embodiment of a process for transmitting supplemental information to an electronic device is shown in . The process may be implemented as part of step of or step of . At step the supplemental information server can determine whether it is in communication with the A V display interface . An A V display interface may be able to communicate with the supplemental information server if the A V display interface has network capability and the ability to receive and transmit data. For example an A V display interface that can be in communication with the supplemental information server may include a set top box a module of an internet ready television or a Blu Ray player with internet connectability. If the A V display interface is determined to be in communication with the supplemental information server then a current state of the piece of media content being played can be received at step . The current state of the piece of media content may include an elapsed time a chapter identification a subtitle setting a language setting or other information that indicates the timeline and manner in which the piece of media content is being played. Supplemental information transmitted later in the process may be based on the current state of the piece of media content.

If the A V display interface is not in communication with the supplemental information server then a current or elapsed time of the piece of media content being played may be determined at step . The current or elapsed time may be used as the current state of the piece of media content being played for purposes of determining the supplemental information later in the process . The current or elapsed time can be specified by the user at the electronic device . The elapsed time can be calculated by comparing the current time and the time when the piece of media content began playing. The current or elapsed time may be used by the supplemental information server when the piece of media content is live content.

After the current state has been received or determined at step or step respectively supplemental information preferences if any may be determined at step . Supplemental information preferences may have been previously set by the user and stored in the customer profile or may be set by the user at step . The retrieval and transmission of the supplemental information to the electronic device at steps and may be affected by the supplemental information preferences. The supplemental information preferences may include preferences by category author actor director genre website date length retailer for items that can be purchased social updates filtered by a friends list channel studio favorite team location rating popularity sales or other preferences. For example if a user indicates a preference to receive only blog postings related to the piece of media content being played then the supplemental information retrieved and transmitted will only include blog postings. As another example if the supplemental information preferences include a preference for sports related information then the supplemental information retrieved and transmitted will only include information related to sports and would not include information related to business for example.

Following step the process continues to step to retrieve the supplemental information. The supplemental information server may retrieve the supplemental information from a memory or database that may be part of the central database from the Internet or from another memory or database at a remote location. The retrieved supplemental information may be transmitted to the electronic device at step . The supplemental information server may transmit the supplemental information to the electronic device based on the device identifier e.g. an IP address which is stored in the active device table. The supplemental information transmitted to the electronic device can include for example metadata magazine and news articles blog postings internet links transaction offers advertisements etc. that are related to the piece of media content that is being played as well as related to the current state of the piece of media content. The supplemental information may be displayed on the electronic device as an email an SMS message as an alert in an application executing on the electronic device or other forms of communication. A uniform resource locator URL link may be included in the supplemental information.

Any process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments of the present invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the invention without substantially departing from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

