---

title: Methods and apparatus for use in facilitating Wi-Fi peer-to-peer (P2P) wireless networking
abstract: A wireless communication device is configured to store a plurality of profiles associated with applications. Each profile includes at least a discovery mode property and a device type property. In response to an application being activated, the wireless device enables a discovery mode for performing discovery in accordance with the discovery mode property retrieved from a selected profile associated with the application. When one or more devices are available for discovery, the wireless device receives information from each device, filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property, and provides the filtered information to the application. The wireless device may then establish, in accordance with one or more properties retrieved from the selected profile, a Wi-Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08953490&OS=08953490&RS=08953490
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 08953490
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120302
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication devices configured for wireless communications and more particularly to techniques for facilitating Wi Fi peer to peer P2P wireless communications for such devices.

A wireless communication device such as a portable battery powered wireless telephony device may be configured to communicate in wireless communication networks. For example such a device may communicate via access points APs of wireless local area networks WLANs in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards or the like. Such a device may additionally or alternatively communicate using peer to peer communication techniques for example in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification and or be certified as a Wi Fi Direct device.

There is a need for efficiently facilitating Wi Fi P2P wireless networking in these and similar environments.

Techniques for use in facilitating Wi Fi peer to peer P2P wireless communications are described herein. A wireless communication device is configured to store a plurality of profiles associated with applications. Each profile includes at least a discovery mode property and a device type property. In response to an application being activated the wireless device enables a discovery mode for performing discovery in accordance with the discovery mode property retrieved from a selected profile associated with the application. When one or more devices are available for discovery the wireless device receives information from each device filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property and provides the filtered information to the application. The wireless device then establishes in accordance with one or more properties retrieved from the selected profile a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices. The Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be established in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification. Different profiles may be enabled concurrently where discovery in relation to both profiles is performed at the same time.

To illustrate one environment within which the techniques of the present disclosure may be practiced illustrates a wireless communication device which may communicate in a communication system . In the communication system wireless device may communicate with one or more wireless communication networks. For example wireless device may communicate with a wireless communication network which is a wireless local area network WLAN . Here wireless network and wireless device may operate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards.

In this example wireless network has a plurality of wireless access points APs and for wireless communications with wireless device . WLANs may be identified by a wireless device with use of a wireless network identifier which is communicated from the WLAN. The wireless network identifier may be for example a Set Service Identifier SSID or Extended SSID ESSID . In this example wireless network includes one or more servers a redirect server and a gateway . Server may provide data applications and or functionality for communication services for wireless device .

Wireless network may be a public Wi Fi hotspot for public use and include what may be referred to as a captive portal or walled garden. For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway is configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality as well as to permit or deny external access outside of wireless network to Internet . To do this gateway has a set of IP address filters which define a set of addresses that are permissible impermissible if any at all for access by devices. Access by a device depends on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization.

Typically when a request by a device in wireless network is made prior to proper authorization gateway is configured to redirect the request to redirect server . In response redirect server is configured to respond to wireless device to provide data for producing information e.g. Web page information which is rendered in a visual display of wireless device via a Web browser application. The information may solicit a user response. For example the information may solicit a user registration or login with user fields for entering a user name and or password information. Gateway identifies whether the received user response is sufficient e.g. whether the user name and password match prestored user name and password information whether the user payment is accepted whether the user acceptance is confirmed etc. . If the user response is deemed sufficient gateway permits access to the data applications and or functionality in or outside of wireless network .

Wireless device may also operate for communications in other different wireless networks such as a wireless network which is also a WLAN. In this example wireless network is a private communication network of an enterprise e.g. an organization a company a corporation etc. of wireless device . Similar to wireless network wireless network has a plurality of wireless APs and one or more servers and a gateway . For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway may be configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality offered via wireless network depending on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization. For devices attempting to access wireless network via Internet gateway is configured to permit or deny internal access to the data applications and or functionality in wireless network .

Such wireless networks e.g. infrastructure WLANs may provide or allow access to various data and communication services to its terminals. For example the wireless networks may provide for communication access to Internet via the Web browser application or voice telephony communication service with use of Voice over IP VoIP communication or other communication services. For push type data or message synchronization services for example wireless device may be enabled to maintain data synchronization with a server e.g. server or for user data of an application associated with a user account. The application of wireless device and the server may be or include for example an electronic mail e mail application program for the communication of e mail messages.

Wireless device may be additionally configured to access communication services via a Public Land Wireless Network PLMN e.g. a cellular telecommunications network . PLMN includes a core network a plurality of base station controllers such as a base station controller BSC coupled to core network and a plurality of base stations such as a base station BS and a base station coupled to associated BSCs . Core network BSC and BS operate in a conventional fashion as well documented. Other PLMNs in the environment have a similar or the same architecture as PLMN . For communication with PLMNs wireless device may be configured in accordance with one or more cellular telecommunication standards such as Global Systems for Mobile GSM and or General Packet Radio Service GPRS technologies. However such wireless device may additionally or alternatively operate in accordance with other such cellular standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE or EVolution Data Only EV DO for CDMA technologies as a few examples.

Further in additional to being operative for communications with infrastructure WLANs e.g. IEEE 802.11 infrastructure WLANs wireless device may additionally or alternatively communicate using peer to peer communication techniques for example in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification and or be certified as a Wi Fi Direct device.

Accordingly illustrated further in wireless device and one or more other wireless devices and in may be operative to establish Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections with each other in a Wi Fi P2P wireless network. Here one of the communications devices may be configured to enter into an AP mode of operation so that other communication devices may associate with them for direct RF communications therebetween. An AP mode of operation which may be referred to as a wireless AP mode or the like provides a benefit due to the high data rates available over WLAN links. Here again data may be communicated directly between the wireless devices without the data traversing any wireless network infrastructure where one of the devices is set to operate or serve as an AP switching operation from as an end terminal and the other device operates as an end terminal to associate and connect with the AP i.e. wireless device operating as an AP for communications. Wireless device may operate such that when in the AP mode of operation with other communication devices and it also operates as a client with another AP.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates one example of a schematic block diagram of wireless device in which example embodiments may be applied. In the illustrated example embodiment wireless device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and configured to communicate with other computer systems e.g. via the Internet . It will however be appreciated that wireless device may take other forms.

Depending on the functionality provided by wireless device in various example embodiments wireless device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computers such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. Wireless device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

Wireless device includes a controller including one or more processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of wireless device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame of which surrounds the display . In such example embodiments the frame of may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of wireless device .

As noted above in some example embodiments wireless device may include a communication subsystem which allows wireless device to communicate over wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to wireless device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on wireless network in which wireless device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device may communicate with any one of a plurality of stations or access points APs of wireless network within its geographic coverage area. Wireless device may send and receive communication signals over wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. Wireless device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on wireless device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of wireless device by providing for information or software downloads to wireless device other than through wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto wireless device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some example embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of wireless device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some example embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

Wireless device may in at least some example embodiments include a near field communications NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other wireless devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

Wireless device may include a microphone and or one or more speakers. In at least some example embodiments wireless device may include a plurality of speakers . For example in some example embodiments wireless device may include two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some example embodiments wireless device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within wireless device . In at least some example embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In at least some example embodiments each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

Wireless device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video. In at least some example embodiments wireless device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front side of wireless device . The front side is typically the side on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of wireless device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of wireless device and or the housing of wireless device . In such example embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In at least some example embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a side .

In at least some example embodiments wireless device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some example embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that wireless device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera wireless device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of wireless device . That is in at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on wireless device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images obtained by the camera.

In some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some example embodiments wireless device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their wireless device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for wireless network is automatically routed to wireless device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

Wireless device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in wireless device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides a regulated voltage V to the circuitry for powering wireless device .

Wireless device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between wireless device and other wireless devices . The short range communication subsystem may be used to provide a preferred device mode between wireless device and another wireless device which may in at least some example embodiments be a wireless device which is the same or similar to wireless device discussed with reference to . In at least some example embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Wireless device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information required by wireless device to establish and maintain communication with wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on wireless device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of wireless device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

Wireless device may in some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of wireless device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over wireless network .

In the voice communication mode wireless device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on wireless device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as preferred device mode module . In the example embodiment of the preferred device mode module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the preferred device mode module could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The software applications on wireless device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on wireless device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto wireless device through wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

Referring now to a front view of an example wireless device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to execute third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at the front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face side of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other example embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some example embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

The wireless device may be a tablet computer tablet one of which is illustrated in . Tablet computer of may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . Tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. Tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

Tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing with use of a frame which surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some example embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows wireless device to detect a touch applied to the frame thereby allowing the frame to act as an input interface of .

The example tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the example embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers are disposed on the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other example embodiments.

The example tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Although a specific wireless device has just been described any suitable wireless communication device or terminal may be part of the methods and apparatus which will be described in fuller detail below. Also although the description of the architecture relates to a specific example for illustration where the wireless network or WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

Other wireless networking configurations include Wi Fi peer to peer P2P wireless networking configurations. For example in it is shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless connection with a display device or monitor which includes a wireless transceiver . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a streaming media application or a display or presentation application.

It is also shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with a printer device which includes a wireless transceiver . Such a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a print application or a facsimile application.

Even further it is shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with a tablet which includes a wireless transceiver . An example tablet was previously shown and described in relation to . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for an applications such as for example a bridge or bridging application where wireless device is further configured for cellular telecommunications e.g. equipped with a cellular transceiver but tablet is not. In such application tablet is able to achieve external network e.g. Internet connectivity being connected to wireless device for communications via the cellular telecommunication network.

It is further shown in that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection in an ad hoc wireless network which includes one or more other wireless devices and . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections may be suitable for applications such as for example a file sharing application a conference meeting application a game or gaming application or a military application. In many instances such ad hoc wireless networks provide no external network connectivity.

When wireless device is connected as such using one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections data may be communicated directly between wireless device and the other devices i.e. without the data traversing any fixed wireless network infrastructure .

As described earlier wireless device has different types of applications stored therein. These applications may include as examples a messaging application a voice telephony application a Web browsing application a streaming media application a file sharing application a game application a printer application a facsimile application a display or presentation application a military application as examples. Wireless device is optimized to establish the appropriate wireless networks based on which type of application is invoked.

Referring ahead to an illustrative representation of another portion of memory of wireless device is shown. Memory is shown to store a plurality of profiles for wireless networking. The profiles include one or more profiles associated with WLAN infrastructure networks and or one or more profiles associated with applications and or services which utilize Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections. In profiles are shown to include profiles and whereas profiles are shown to include profiles and . Profiles may be or be referred to as WLAN profiles whereas profiles may be or be referred to as Wi Fi P2P wireless networking profiles or Wi Fi Direct profiles.

Each one of profiles is associated with a particular WLAN infrastructure network and includes a plurality of parameters and or properties for accessing the particular WLAN. The WLAN information may include an identification which identifies the WLAN to access e.g. a SSID or ESSID . The WLAN information may also include authentication and or security information for obtaining access to the WLAN e.g. a network key passkey security key etc. . One of the WLANs appropriate WLAN from profiles will be selected for communication when available as prioritized in a prioritized list of the profiles . When not connected in a WLAN the wireless device normally operates to search for WLANs identified in its stored profiles . Conversely the wireless device normally refrains from searching for and communicating in WLANs other than those WLANs identified in stored profiles .

On the other hand each one of profiles is associated with one of the applications and or services which utilizes a particular type and or configuration of Wi Fi P2P wireless network or Wi Fi Direct network . Each one of profiles includes parameters and or properties associated with establishing the particular type and or configuration of Wi Fi P2P wireless network for the application and or service. Profiles may be created viewed updated enabled and disabled as described in the present disclosure see e.g. discussion in relation to .

Properties in profiles may include the following. Properties may include a device type property which indicates a device type of the device for the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection to be established. The device type may be the device type that is being searched for in the discovery. Note that there may be two device types specified in the profile a primary device type and a secondary device type. The device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device types may be or include the predefined values as set forth therein. The device type may be or include category identification ID and or subcategory identification ID . Examples of such types are as follows a computer an input device a printer a camera a display monitor a gaming device an audio device a multimedia device or a telephone device.

Properties may additionally or alternatively include an advertised device type property which indicates the device type of wireless device . The advertised device type may be the device type to be advertised by wireless device . Note that there may be two advertised device types specified in the profile a primary advertised device type and a secondary advertised device type. The advertised device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device types may be or include the predefined values as set forth therein. The advertised device type may be or include category identification ID and or subcategory identification ID . Examples of such types are as follows a computer an input device a printer a camera a display monitor a gaming device an audio device a multimedia device or a telephone device.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a service type property which indicates a service type which identifies the service associated with the device. For example the service types may be or include the appropriate service types as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex E thereof . Examples of such types are as follows a file sharing service or a printing service. Alternatively examples of such types are as follows Apple File Sharing AFP service or AFP over TCP service or IP Printing IPP Bonjour service.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a discovery mode property which indicates a mode utilized for the discovery of devices for the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection. The discovery mode property may be set to one of the following a triggered mode of discovery or a periodic mode of discovery. Alternatively the discovery mode may be set to one of the following a triggered mode of discovery a periodic mode of discovery or a Group Owner GO mode of discovery.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a persistent property or indication which indicates whether or not the Wi Fi P2P wireless network is persistent. If the network is persistent when an application is opened or activated the wireless device connects to a previously established Wi Fi P2P wireless network.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a coexistence indication or property which indicates whether the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection associated with this profile may be maintained while the wireless device operates as a client in an infrastructure network. Properties may additionally or alternatively include another coexistence indication or property which indicates whether the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection associated with this profile may be maintained while maintaining another Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection.

Note that properties in profiles may omit a device identifier which identifies any particular device for connection and or may omit a wireless network identifier which identifies any particular wireless network for connection. Rather properties in at least some of profiles indicate connection with particular types of devices and or services and or indicate connection with particular types of networks as opposed to specifically identified devices or specifically identified networks.

It is noted that many peer to peer use cases for Wi Fi P2P wireless networking lend themselves to different modes of operation. For example if a wireless device supports a network gateway feature e.g. a mobile hotspot or MHO feature then the wireless device may be configured to establish a persistent Wi Fi P2P wireless network when the service is enabled. As another example the same wireless device may require a printer service to allow an application to print a document. In this case the Wi Fi P2P wireless network may be established on demand based on an application trigger. In another example a social networking application may periodically search for other communication devices running the same social networking application which may result in the wireless device operating in a periodic discovery mode for other devices which advertise the same service.

To accommodate for such various use cases profiles associated with the various application services utilizing Wi Fi P2P wireless networks are created and stored on the wireless device. These profiles are enabled when needed such as enabled in response to an activation of an application associated therewith. Further the profiles may be enabled concurrently.

In one embodiment the profiles may have data structures defined for compatibility with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification. Each profile may include information specific to Wi Fi P2P wireless network operation including device discovery behavior service discovery options co existence with infrastructures connectivity as well as operational characteristics of the network e.g. whether it is persistent or triggered on application launch .

These profiles may be provisioned as defaults in the wireless device and or may be configured by applications when installed. Further the profiles may be configured via the user interface of the wireless device with use of a human machine interface HMI application that provides management of the profiles. This HMI application may be configured to provide the ability to search for and identify any Wi Fi P2P wireless networks.

The profiles are used to manage the behavior of the WLAN or Wi Fi driver of the wireless device to accommodate for the various application services. The driver may be configured to support each particular use case. More particularly the driver may use the profile information to manage peer to peer communications on the wireless device as well as to arbitrate between Wi Fi P2P wireless network and other modes of connectivity e.g. infrastructure STA mode . The driver may be further configured to support other application requirements such as sleep modes discovery modes and or co existence with an infrastructure network connection over WLAN etc.

An example set of properties and or parameters relating to the behavioral characteristics are summarized in Table 1 below. The properties parameters in Table 1 may be a subset of parameters contained in such Wi Fi Direct profile to control wireless networking behavior. Such properties parameters may be included with a set of standard operating parameters for the driver.

The wireless device is configured to store a plurality of profiles in its memory. The profiles include profiles associated with applications which utilize the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections. Each profile may be either enabled or alternatively activated in an enabled state or in an active or activated state or disabled or alternatively deactivated in a disabled state or in a deactive or deactivated state . Each profile has properties and or parameters contained therein. Also profiles may be concurrently enabled. Put another way more than one profile may be in an active state at any given time.

Beginning at a start block of the wireless device enables a first profile step of . The wireless device may enable the first profile in response to a first application of the wireless communication device being activated e.g. launched or opened . In response the wireless device operates its wireless transceiver in a discovery mode for use in establishing a first Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the first application in accordance with one or more properties from the first profile step of . The discovery may be for the discovery of one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless devices and or services in accordance with one or more properties in the first profile. The discovery mode may be for example a periodic discovery which is a discovery which occurs periodically while the first Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection is unavailable. As a result of step the first Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be established depending on the outcome of the discovery.

The wireless device may subsequently enable a second profile step of . The first profile and the second profile may be enabled concurrently. The wireless device may enable the second profile in response to a second application of the wireless communication device being activated e.g. launched or opened . In response the wireless device operates its wireless transceiver in a discovery mode for use in establishing a second Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the second application in accordance with one or more properties in the second profile step of . The discovery may be for the discovery of one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless devices and or services in accordance with one or more properties from the second profile. The discovery mode may be for example a periodic discovery which is a discovery which occurs periodically while the second Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection is unavailable. As a result of step the second Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be established depending on the outcome of the discovery.

The flowchart in is shown to end after step however the technique may continue with other or additional profiles being enabled concurrently with the others.

Further steps which may be employed in relation to the method of are now described. In the present discussion it is noted that each profile includes at least a discovery mode property and a device type property. In response to the first application being activated the wireless device enables the first profile again step of and therefore a discovery mode is enabled again step of for performing discovery in accordance with the discovery mode property retrieved from the first profile associated the first application.

When one or more devices are available for discovery for the first application the wireless device receives information from each device. The received information includes a device identifier and a device type. The wireless device then filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property retrieved from the first profile. Here the wireless device may filter out or ignore received information associated with devices having devices types that fail to match the device type property from the first profile. The wireless device then communicates or otherwise provides this filtered information to the first application. Note that such filtering may further be performed with respect to the service type property and service type received from the devices. Subsequently the wireless device may establish in accordance with one or more properties retrieved from the first profile a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices.

In response to the second application being activated the wireless device enables the second profile again step of and therefore a discovery mode is enabled again step of for performing discovery in accordance with the discovery mode property retrieved from the second profile associated the second application. The discovery modes for the first application and the second application may be enabled concurrently. When one or more devices are available for discovery for the second application the wireless device receives information from each device. The received information includes a device identifier and a device type. The wireless device filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property retrieved from the second profile. The wireless device may filter out or ignore received information associated with devices having devices types that fail to match the device type property from the second profile. The wireless device then communicates or otherwise provides this filtered information to the second application. Note that such filtering may further be performed with respect to the service type property and service type received from the devices. The wireless device may then establish in accordance with one or more properties retrieved from the second profile a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices.

Note that the ordering of steps in may be varied and in one embodiment both first and second profiles are enabled at the same or substantially the same time i.e. steps and occur at the same or substantially the same time . In this case the discovery for both first and second applications profiles may be consolidated i.e. the discovery of different types of devices and or different types of services for different applications may be performed at the same time . When the first and second profiles are enabled at the same or substantially the same time such technique may be performed as follows. When one or more devices are available for discovery the wireless device receives information from each device. The received information includes a device identifier and a device type. In a first filtering process the wireless device filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property retrieved from the first profile. Here the wireless device may filter out or ignore received information associated with devices having devices types that fail to match the device type property from the first profile. The wireless device then communicates or otherwise provides this filtered information to the first application. In a second filtering process the wireless device filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property retrieved from the second profile. Here the wireless device may filter out or ignore received information associated with devices having devices types that fail to match the device type property from the second profile. The wireless device then communicates or otherwise provides this filtered information to the second application.

Subsequently the wireless device may establish in accordance with one or more properties retrieved from the first or the second profile a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices for the first or the second application. Note that the filtering may further be performed with respect to the service type property and service type received from the devices.

As shown in a device application programming interface API module for Wi Fi P2P networking is provided for communicating data between components and applications . In this example the three 3 applications shown include applications and which may be different applications for different services and or from different vendors e.g. see discussion in relation to . Middleware is required between applications and device API module so that data may be properly communicated between applications and components . For example an API module may be utilized between application and device API module an API module may be utilized between application and device API module and an API module may be utilized between application and device API module .

A dashed line in identifies the separation between those modules that may be initially provided in the wireless device e.g. initially provided at manufacture and or sale and those applications and middleware which may be subsequently installed or provided in the wireless device e.g. subsequently provided after manufacture or sale .

Initially in application is stored and or installed in wireless device . Upon storage and or installation application is registered in wireless device process step . In the registration a registration request is communicated from application to wireless connection component s via middleware and device API module . The registration request may include one or more parameters associated with the appropriate Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection to be established for application . Components receive the registration request and or its associated parameters and in response create a profile associated with the application process step . The profile includes one or more parameters and or properties associated with establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for application .

Subsequently application may be activated in a request for establishing service process step . For example application may be activated in response to receiving a user input via user interface of wireless device . The request for service triggers wireless device to operate in a discovery mode process step . Here a discovery request is communicated from application to wireless connection component s via middleware and device API module . Components receive the discovery request and or its associated properties and in response cause wireless device to operate in the discovery mode for discovering device s and or service for establishing a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the application in accordance with one or more properties in the profile. The discovery mode may be for example a periodic discovery mode where a periodic discovery is performed while the appropriate connection and or service is unavailable.

In response to discovery components communicate a discovery response to application via device API module and middleware process step . The discovery response may identify one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless devices which are discovered during the discovery. Application may in turn communicate a connection request to components via middleware and device API module process step . In response to receiving the connection request components establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection in a Wi Fi P2P wireless network with at least some of the discovered Wi H P2P wireless devices process step . The Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be established based on one or more parameters stored in the profile associated with application . Alternatively in process step components may communicate an invitation to a Wi Fi P2P wireless device for joining an existing Wi Fi P2P wireless network. In response to establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection components communicate a confirmation response to application via device API module and middleware process step .

Wireless device then communicates data via the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the service associated with the application . The data are communicated or exchanged between application and components process step .

Subsequently application may be deactivated in a request for terminating the service. For example application may be deactivated in response to receiving a user input via input interface of wireless device . The request for terminating the service triggers a disconnection of the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection process step . Here a disconnection request is communicated from application to wireless connection component s via middleware and device API module . Components receive the disconnection request and in response disconnect from the Wi Fi P2P wireless network process step . In response to disconnection from the Wi Fi P2P wireless network components communicate a confirmation response to application via device API module and middleware process step .

A profile may be created as shown in as follows. Initially application is stored and or installed in wireless device . Upon storage and or installation application is registered in wireless device . In the registration a registration request is communicated from middleware to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The registration request may include one or more parameters or properties associated with the appropriate Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection and or the service to be established for application . See e.g. the description earlier above in relation to the properties and or parameters of the profiles. Components receive the registration request and or its associated parameters and in response create a profile associated with the application process step . The profile includes one or more parameters and or properties associated with establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection and or service for application . Components communicate a registration response to middleware via device API module process step . The registration response may include a profile identifier which identifies the profile or handle ProfileHandle a profile status Status and or other properties.

A profile may be viewed or read as shown in as follows. For the viewing or reading process a get profile request is communicated from middleware to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The get profile request may include a profile identifier which identifies the profile s to be read such as all profiles All a particular profile ProfileHandle and one or more profiles associated with a particular service Service . Components receive the get profile request and the profile identifier and in response create and return a list of profiles and their associated properties process step . The list of profiles and their associated properties are communicated from components to middleware via device API module in a get profile response which is received by middleware process step . The profile s may then be viewed in the user interface e.g. display of wireless device .

A profile may be updated as shown in as follows. In the profile updating process an update profile request is communicated from middleware to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The update profile request may include a profile identifier which identifies the profile to update ProfileHandle and the one or more updated parameters or properties ProfileParams . Components receive the update profile request and or its associated parameters and in response update or modify the identified profile process step . Components communicate an update profile response to middleware via device API module process step . The update profile response may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile that was updated ProfileHandle and the profile status Status .

A profile may be enabled as shown in as follows. Application may be activated in a request for establishing service. For example application may be activated in response to receiving a user input via input interface of wireless device . The activation of the application and or the request for service triggers an enabling of the profile associated with the application. Here an enable profile request is communicated from middleware to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The enable profile request may include a profile identifier which identifies profile to enable ProfileHandle . Components receive the enable profile request and in response enable the corresponding profile process step . The enabling of the profile causes wireless device to begin operating in a discovery mode for discovering device s and or service for establishing a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the application in accordance with one or more properties in the profile. The discovery mode may be a periodic discovery mode where a periodic discovery is performed while the appropriate connection and or service is unavailable. Components communicate an enable profile response to middleware via device API module process step . The enable profile response may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile that was enabled ProfileHandle and the profile status Status .

A profile may be disabled as shown in as follows. Application may be deactivated in a request for terminating the service. For example application may be deactivated in response to receiving a user input via input interface of wireless device . The deactivation of application and or the request for terminating the service triggers a disabling of the profile associated with application . Here a disable profile request is communicated from middleware to wireless connection component s via device API module . Components receive the disable profile request and in response disable the corresponding profile process step . The disabling of the profile causes wireless device to cease operation of the discovery mode for discovering device s and or service for establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the application. Components communicate a disable profile response to middleware via device API module process step . The disable profile response may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile that was disabled ProfileHandle and the profile status Status .

Application may be activated in a request for establishing service. For example application may be activated in response to receiving a user input via input interface of wireless device . The activation of the application and or the request triggers an enabling of the profile associated with the application . Thus a request for service or registration is communicated from application to middleware process step . The request may include one or more parameters associated with application . Middleware receives the request and or its associated parameters and in response communicates an enable profile request to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The enable profile request may include a profile identifier which identifies which profile to enable ProfileHandle and or a service identifier which identifies the service Service . Components receive the enable profile request and in response enable the corresponding profile process step . The enabling of the profile causes wireless device to operate in a discovery mode for discovering device s and or service s for establishing a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the application in accordance with one or more properties in the profile. The discovery mode may be for example a periodic discovery mode where a periodic discovery is performed while the appropriate connection and or service is unavailable. Components communicate an enable profile response to middleware via device API module process step . The enable profile response may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile that was enabled ProfileHandle and the profile status Status .

On the other hand further in application may be activated in a request for establishing service which triggers application to send a discovery request to middleware process step . A corresponding discovery request is communicated from middleware to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The discovery request may include a profile identifier which identifies which profile to enable ProfileHandle and or a service identifier which identifies the service Service . Components receive the discovery request and in response enable the corresponding profile process step . The enabling of the profile causes wireless device to operate in a discovery mode for discovering devices and or services for establishing a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the application in accordance with one or more properties in the profile. The discovery mode may be a periodic discovery mode where a periodic discovery is performed while the appropriate connection and or service is unavailable. Components communicate a discovery response to middleware via device API module process step . The discovery response may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile that was enabled ProfileHandle and the profile status Status .

Subsequently device s and or service may be discovered process step . When device s are discovered components communicate a discovery complete response to middleware via device API module process step . The discovery complete response may include a profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle and or one or more device identifiers which identify one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless devices which are discovered during the discovery DiscoveryResult . A corresponding discovery complete response is communicated to application from middleware process step . Subsequently application may in turn communicate a connection request to components via middleware and device API module for establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection.

Application may be activated in a request for establishing service. For example application may be activated in response to receiving a user input via user interface of wireless device . The activation of the application and or the request triggers an enabling of the profile associated with the application . Thus a request for service or registration is communicated from application to middleware process step . The request may include one or more parameters associated with application . Middleware receives the request and or its associated parameters and in response communicates an enable profile request to wireless connection component s via device API module process step . The enable profile request may include a profile identifier which identifies which profile to enable ProfileHandle and or a service identifier which identifies the service Service . Components receive the enable profile request and in response enable the corresponding profile process step . The enabling of the profile causes wireless device to operate in a discovery mode for discovering device s and or service for establishing a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the application in accordance with one or more properties in the profile. The discovery mode may be a periodic discovery mode where a periodic discovery is performed while the appropriate connection and or service is unavailable. Components communicate an enable profile response to middleware via device API module process step . The enable profile response may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile that was enabled ProfileHandle and the profile status Status .

Subsequently device s and or service s may be discovered process step . When device s and or service s are discovered components communicate a discovery complete response to middleware via device API module process step . The discovery complete response may include a profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle and or one or more device identifiers which identify one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless devices which are discovered during the discovery DiscoveryResult . A corresponding discovery complete response is communicated to application from middleware process step . Subsequently application may in turn communicate a connection request to components via middleware and device API module for establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection.

Initially wireless device is operating in a discovery mode for discovering device s and or service for establishing a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for application in accordance with one or more properties in the profile. The discovery mode may be a periodic discovery mode where a periodic discovery is performed while the appropriate connection and or service is unavailable. Device s and or service s may therefore be discovered process step . When device s and or service s are discovered components communicate a discovery complete response to middleware via device API module process step . The discovery complete response may include a profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle and or one or more device identifiers which identify one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless device s and or service s which are discovered during the discovery DiscoveryResult . Correspondingly a discovery complete response is communicated to application from middleware process step .

In response application may communicate a connection request to middleware process step . Correspondingly a connection request is communicated from middleware to components via device API module process step . The connection request may include one or more properties or parameters for the connection to be established. The properties or parameters may include the profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle and one or more device identifiers which identify the one or more devices for connection P2PDeviceMAC . The device identifier may be or include the MAC address of the device for connection. In response components communicate a connection response acknowledgement to middleware via device API module process step . The response may include one or more properties or parameters such as the profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle and the profile status Status . In response to receiving the connection request components establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection in a Wi Fi P2P wireless network with at least some of the Wi Fi P2P wireless devices process step . The Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be established based on one or more parameters stored in the profile associated with application . In response to establishing the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection components communicate a connection response to middleware via device API module process step . Correspondingly in response a connection response is communicated from middleware to application process step . Wireless device then communicates data via the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the service associated with the application . The data are communicated or exchanged between application and components .

Subsequently application may be deactivated in a request for terminating the service. For example application may be deactivated in response to receiving a user input via input interface of wireless device . The request for terminating the service triggers a disconnection of the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection. Here a disconnection request is communicated from application to middleware process step . Correspondingly in response a disconnection request is communicated from middleware to components via device API module process step . The disconnection request may include one or more properties or parameters for the connection to be established such as the profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle . Components receive the disconnection request and in response communicate a disconnect response to middleware via device API module process step . The disconnect response may include one or more properties or parameters associated with the disconnection such as the profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle the device identifier s which identifies the device s to be disconnected from MAC and the profile status Status . Components then disconnect from the P2P wireless network process step . In response to disconnection from the P2P wireless network components communicate a disconnect notification to middleware via device API module process step . The disconnect notification may include one or more properties or parameters associated with the disconnection such as the profile identifier which identifies the profile ProfileHandle the device identifier s which identifies the device s that were disconnected from MAC and the profile status Status . Correspondingly in response a disconnection notification is communicated from middleware to application process step .

Thus techniques for use in facilitating Wi Fi peer to peer P2P wireless communications have been described herein. A wireless communication device is configured to store a plurality of profiles associated with applications. Each profile includes at least a discovery mode property and a device type property. In response to an application being activated the wireless device enables a discovery mode for performing discovery in accordance with the discovery mode property retrieved from a selected profile associated with the application. When one or more devices are available for discovery the wireless device receives information from each device filters the received information to provide filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches the device type property and provides the filtered information to the application. The wireless device then establishes in accordance with one or more properties retrieved from the selected profile a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices. The Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be established in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification. Different profiles may be enabled concurrently where discovery in relation to both profiles is performed at the same time.

In another embodiment a wireless communication device is configured to store a plurality of profiles associated with applications. The wireless device enables a first profile in response to a first application being activated. When the first profile is enabled the wireless device operates in a discovery mode for use in establishing a first Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the first application in accordance with one or more properties in the first profile. The wireless device also enables a second profile in response to a second application being activated. When the second profile is enabled the wireless device operates in a discovery mode for use in establishing a second Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection for the second application in accordance with one or more properties in the second profile. The first profile and the second profile may be enabled concurrently.

In still another embodiment a wireless communication device is configured to store a plurality of profiles associated with applications. The wireless device enables a first profile in response to a first application of the wireless communication device being activated. The wireless device also enables a second profile in response to a second application of the wireless communication device being activated. The wireless device further enables a discovery mode for performing discovery for the first and the second applications. When one or more devices are available for the discovery the wireless device receives information from each device. Each discovered device provides information which includes a device identifier and a device type. The wireless device filters the received information to provide first filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches a first device type property from the first profile and provides the first filtered information to the first application. The wireless device also filters the received information to provide second filtered information associated with one or more devices having a device type that matches a second device type property from the second profile and provides the second filtered information to the second application. The wireless device then establishes a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with at least one of the devices. In the above technique the discovery may be performed for both the first and the second application at the same or substantially the same time.

In yet another embodiment a wireless device is configured to store a plurality of profiles associated with applications. Each profile includes one or more properties and or parameters. In response to an application being activated the device operates in a discovery mode in accordance with the one or more properties parameters from a selected one of the profiles associated with the application. Alternatively or additional the device operates to establishes a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection depending on or based on the one or more properties parameters from the selected profile associated with the application. The one or more properties parameters may be or include those described earlier above.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. Although the description relates to specific examples for illustration where the WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network for example different environments may be applicable as well. As a few other examples the wireless networking may be based on a WiMAX network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB network i.e. IEEE 802.15 . The invention described herein in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

