---

title: Systems and methods for providing media recommendations
abstract: Systems and methods are described for providing content recommendations by maintaining preference values indicative of a user's preference (e.g., degree of like or dislike) for different assets and updating these preference values based on observed events and known relationships between events and content elements. Also disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing content recommendations using polarity scores, which represent how much user preferences for certain content differ from the average user preference for that content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235574&OS=09235574&RS=09235574
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09235574
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 496 463 filed Jun. 13 2011 and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Modern recommendation applications typically provide one of three basic services providing candidate recommended content for a user providing candidate related content to an item or group of items and defining a distance metric between users and content. Many such applications rely on techniques such as collaborative filtering which may be reasonably successful with the first two services but fails to adequately provide the third service for any but the most mainstream content due to its inability to handle data sparsity and often becomes intractably slow as the size of the content domain increases. Techniques like singular value decomposition improve on collaborative filtering s failures with sparse data but also abstract and compress the data in a form that is no longer understandable by human administrators and thus cannot be readily edited or analyzed. Because details can make or break a recommendations platform singular value decomposition techniques often fall short.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing content recommendations by maintaining preference values indicative of a user s preference for different content e.g. degree of like or dislike and updating these preference values based on observed events and known relationships between events and content.

Also disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing recommendations using polarity scores which represent how much user preferences for a content element differ from the average user preference for that content element e.g. love it or hate it . Polarity scores may also represent how concentrated user preferences are around one or more values i.e. the poles of a user preference distribution . For example reactions to the 1999 film The Blair Witch Project tended to fall at either end of the spectrum with many rave ratings many negative ratings and few ratings in between. Although averaging all of the ratings of The Blair Witch Project may result in an approximately neutral rating a randomly selected viewer is much more likely to strongly like or strongly dislike the movie rather than feel neutral about it. For polarizing content such as The Blair Witch Project averaging all of the ratings may suppress more nuanced information about the distribution of viewer preferences.

The distribution of viewer preferences for content and polarity in particular may be used to improve the performance of content recommendation systems. The systems and methods disclosed herein use polarity scores to quantify how polarizing a content element e.g. a movie book director genre etc. may be and use those polarity scores to determine which recommendations to provide. Polarity scores may be especially useful when providing recommendations to a client that is accessing the content recommendation system for the first time in which case content with high polarity scores may be avoided until the content recommendation system learns what types of content the client prefers. By avoiding highly polarizing content at the outset a content recommendation system may decrease the risk that a user will strongly dislike the first recommendations and abandon use of the system.

In some aspects a system for providing content recommendations includes a memory that stores a multiple preference values associated with each of multiple content elements. Each preference value has a value between a first end point and a second end point with the first end point representing a dislike of the associated content element e.g. hate it and the second end point representing a liking for the associated content element e.g. love it . The preference values may be based on user ratings of the content element e.g. one to five stars for a musical album for example.

The system may also include a processing device configured to determine a polarity score for each of the content elements based on the associated preference values. Each polarity score may represent an amount by which the preference values for that content element differ from an average preference value for that content element. In some implementations the polarity score may also represent how concentrated the preference values are around two or more different preference values e.g. to what degree the preference values are clustered around love it and hate it poles of the preference value distribution . The processing device may compare each of the polarity scores to a polarity threshold and transmit a recommendation to a client device for display for any content elements with polarity scores that do not exceed the threshold. In some implementations the polarity threshold is equal to the minimum polarity score of a group of content elements each of which may represent a potential recommendation or the polarity threshold may be set by an administrator for example. The recommendation may include metadata for the content element such as a description a title representative video or audio clips reviews etc.

In some implementations the processing device performs the comparing and transmitting steps in response to determining that a client associated with the client device has not previously accessed the recommendation system or that the client has accessed the system fewer than a threshold number of times. If the client has accessed the system a sufficient number of times the processing device may increase the polarity threshold which may lead to recommending content elements with higher polarity scores .

In some aspects a system for providing content recommendations includes a memory configured to store metadata descriptive of a content element. The content element is associated with a polarity score that does not exceed a polarity score threshold the polarity score is based on multiple preference values associated with that content element each preference value is between a first end point and a second end point the first end point representing a dislike of the content element and the second end point representing a liking for the content element and each polarity score represents an amount by which the preference values differ from an average preference value. A processing device transforms the metadata into a recommendation display for a user device and an output device transmits the recommendation display to the user device.

The recommendation systems and methods disclosed herein may be readily applied to any interactive application e.g. interactive software interactive websites interactive television programs and interactive presentations or static application that includes aggregating data for transmitting recommendations to one or more users e.g. a magazine feature providing product recommendations to different types of readers . As used herein the term recommendation should be understood to mean information chosen to appeal to a user or group of users. Recommendations may be explicit e.g. by presenting a particular book in a Recommended For You display on a website or implicit e.g. by presenting an advertisement for a particular product expected to appeal to a particular user or group of users . For illustrative purposes this disclosure will often discuss exemplary embodiments of these systems and methods as applied in media guidance applications but it will be understood that these illustrative examples do not limit the range of applications which may be improved by the use of the systems and methods disclosed herein.

The amount of information available to users in any given search recommendation or content delivery system can be substantial. Consequently many users desire a form of media guidance through an interface that allows users to efficiently navigate content selections and easily identify content that they may desire. An application that provides such guidance is referred to herein as an interactive media guidance application or sometimes a media guidance application or a guidance application. In particular the recommendation techniques disclosed herein may be advantageously implemented in a guidance application.

Interactive media guidance applications may take various forms depending on the content for which they provide guidance. One typical type of media guidance application is an interactive television program guide. Interactive television program guides sometimes referred to as electronic program guides are well known guidance applications that among other things allow users to navigate among and locate many types of content. As referred to herein the term content should be understood to mean an electronically consumable user asset such as television programming as well as pay per view programs on demand programs as in video on demand VOD systems Internet content e.g. streaming content downloadable content webcasts etc. video clips audio content information pictures rotating images documents playlists websites articles books electronic books blogs advertisements chat sessions social media applications games descriptions of media assets e.g. year made genre ratings reviews etc. and or any other media or multimedia and or combination of the same. Guidance applications also allow users to navigate among and locate content. As referred to herein the term multimedia should be understood to mean content that utilizes at least two different content forms described above for example text audio images video or interactivity content forms. Content may be recorded played displayed or accessed by client devices but can also be part of a live performance.

One of the functions of the media guidance application is to provide media guidance data to users. As referred to herein the phrase media guidance data or guidance data should be understood to mean any data related to content such as metadata recommendations media listings media related information e.g. broadcast times broadcast channels titles descriptions ratings information e.g. parental control ratings critic s ratings etc. genre or category information actor information logo data for broadcasters or providers logos etc. media format e.g. standard definition high definition 3D etc. advertisement information e.g. text images media clips etc. on demand information blogs websites and any other type of guidance data that is helpful for a user to navigate among and locate desired content selections.

Display may also include advertisement video region and options region . The item advertised in advertisement and or the format of advertisement e.g. interactive or passive animated or static may be selected using the recommendation techniques described herein. Video region may allow the user to view and or preview programs that are currently available will be available or were available to the user. The content of video region may correspond to or be independent from one of the listings displayed in grid . Grid displays including a video region are sometimes referred to as picture in guide PIG displays. PIG displays and their functionalities are described in greater detail in Satterfield et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 564 378 issued May 13 2003 and Yuen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 239 794 issued May 29 2001 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties. PIG displays may be included in other media guidance application display screens of the embodiments described herein.

Options region may allow the user to access different types of content media guidance application displays and or media guidance application features. Options region may be part of display and other display screens described herein or may be invoked by a user by selecting an on screen option or pressing a dedicated or assignable button on a user input device. The selectable options within options region may concern features related to program listings in grid or may include options available from a main menu display. Features related to program listings may include searching for other air times or ways of receiving a program requesting programs similar to or recommended based on a program recording a program enabling series recording of a program setting a program and or a channel as a favorite providing negative or positive feedback for a program or channel for use in providing recommendations e.g. via polarity scores as described in detail below purchasing a program or other features. Options available from a main menu display may include search options VOD options parental control options Internet options cloud based options device synchronization options second screen device options options to access various types of media guidance data displays options to subscribe to a premium service options to edit a user s profile options to access a browse overlay or other options.

Another display arrangement for providing media guidance is shown in . Video mosaic display includes selectable options for content information organized based on content type genre and or other organization criteria. In display television listings option is selected thus providing listings and as broadcast program listings. One or more of listings and may be a listing for recommended content determined in accordance with the techniques disclosed herein. In display the listings may provide graphical images including cover art still images from the content video clip previews live video from the content or other types of content that indicate to a user the content being described by the media guidance data in the listing. Each of the graphical listings may also be accompanied by text to provide further information about the content associated with the listing. For example listing may include more than one portion including media portion and text portion . Media portion and or text portion may be selectable to view content in full screen or to view information related to the content displayed in media portion e.g. to view listings for the channel on which the video is displayed . A user may also select recommendations option to be provided with recommendations e.g. via the display of below or to provide feedback that may be used to calculate polarity scores as discussed in detail below .

In some implementations a media guidance application is implemented on a client server which receives data from a media guidance data source such as media guidance data source and uses that data to provide a media guidance application to one or more client devices. In some implementations the media guidance application executes directly on the client device in this case the client device is itself a client of the media guidance data source. As used herein the term client or client device should be understood to mean any device that receives media guidance data such as recommendations from a media guidance data source. A user device then is a particular example of a client device. Client devices may be coupled to communications network . Namely user television equipment user computer equipment and wireless user communications device are coupled to communications network via communications paths and respectively. Client devices may include client data server which has additional client devices user television equipment user computer equipment and wireless user communications device . Communications network may be one or more networks including the Internet a mobile phone network mobile voice or data network e.g. a 4G or LTE network cable network public switched telephone network or other types of communications network or combinations of communications networks. Paths and may include any of the communication paths described above in connection with paths and . Paths and are drawn with dotted lines to indicate that in the exemplary embodiment shown in they are wireless paths and paths and are drawn as solid lines to indicate they are wired paths although these paths may be wireless paths if desired . Various network configurations of devices may be implemented and are discussed in more detail below. Although communications between sources and and client devices are shown as through communications network in an embodiment sources and may communicate directly with client devices via communication paths not shown such as those described above in connection with paths and . Additional discussion of suitable configurations of system is presented elsewhere herein.

Client devices of can be implemented in system as any type of equipment suitable for accessing content and or media guidance data such as a non portable gaming machine. Client devices on which a media guidance application may be implemented may function as standalone devices or may be part of a network of devices. shows a generalized embodiment of illustrative client device . More specific implementations of client devices are discussed below in connection with . Client device may receive content and data such as recommendation data via input output hereinafter I O path . I O path may provide content e.g. broadcast programming on demand programming Internet content content available over a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN and or other content and data such as media guidance data to control circuitry which includes processing circuitry and storage . Control circuitry may be used to send and receive commands requests and other suitable data using I O path . I O path may connect control circuitry and specifically processing circuitry to one or more communications paths described below . I O functions may be provided by one or more of these communications paths but are shown as a single path in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. In some implementations client device is a user device through which a user may access content and the media guidance application and its display screens described above and below . In some implementations client device is a server or other processing system that acts as an intermediary between media guidance data such as recommendation data and one or more user devices.

An operator may send instructions to control circuitry using input interface . Input interface may be any suitable interface such as a remote control mouse trackball keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad stylus input joystick voice recognition interface or other input interfaces. Display may be provided as a stand alone device or integrated with other elements of client device . Display may be one or more of a monitor a television a liquid crystal display LCD for a mobile device or any other suitable equipment for displaying visual images. In some embodiments display may be HDTV capable. In some embodiments display may be a 3D display and the interactive media guidance application and any suitable content may be displayed in 3D. A video card or graphics card may generate the output to the display . The video card may offer various functions such as accelerated rendering of 3D scenes and 2D graphics MPEG 2 MPEG 4 decoding TV output or the ability to connect multiple monitors. The video card may be any processing circuitry described above in relation to control circuitry . The video card may be integrated with the control circuitry . Speakers may be provided as integrated with other elements of client device or may be stand alone units. The audio component of videos and other content displayed on display may be played through speakers . In some embodiments the audio may be distributed to a receiver not shown which processes and outputs the audio via speakers . In some implementations client device may not include one or more of display and speakers .

Information from database may be transmitted by one or more servers associated with database to data mining processor . Data mining processor is configured to extract information from database and process the extracted information to reconcile information from multiple sources e.g. data records from multiple catalog management systems . In some implementations data mining processor includes a memory device configured as a database for storing one or more tokens used in performing the domain based tokenization techniques described in co pending application Ser. No. 13 404 498 filed Feb. 24 2012 entitled Systems and methods for domain specific tokenization which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Data mining processor may also transmit the reconciled information to core content relations management CCRM module . As used herein the term module should be understood to mean a processing device executing programming logic such as source code or higher level code e.g. Java code executed via a Java compiler stored in a memory device e.g. RAM ROM removable memory media Flash memory optical dishes etc. . In some implementations CCRM module includes a MySQL database of reconciled data. Systems and methods for reconciling data in an aggregate catalog which may be implemented by data mining processor in conjunction with CCRM module and the rest of offline component are described in co pending application Ser. No. 13 404 574 filed Feb. 24 2012 entitled Systems and methods for transmitting content metadata for multiple data records which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

CCRM module may also receive information from editorial influence module . In some embodiments editorial influence module receives metadata from human or computer editors and augments the information that is automatically catalogued with this editorial metadata. Editorial influence module includes a server configured to provide a web based interface between human editors and the database of CCRM module . In some implementations editorial influence module includes a Java application running on an Apache Tomcat web server but may be executed on any processing device or devices with a user interface. Human editors may interact with the web based interface using a personal computer connected to the Internet a hand held device or any of the client devices such as client device of described herein. Editorial metadata is described in additional detail below with reference to .

Information from database may also be transmitted e.g. by one or more servers associated with database to export index processor . Export index processor queries CCRM module to extract catalog information from CCRM module and formats this information for use in different modules of real time component as described in detail below . Export index processor may be configured to extract information in batches on a regular interval e.g. every twenty four hours and format and transmit this batched information to a dependent module or may be configured to extract information as it is updated in CCRM module . As shown in export index processor transmits information to domain relations module search indices module and metadata module . These modules serve as quick sources of certain common types of information for real time service processor described in detail below instead of requiring real time service processor to query CCRM module whenever a particular kind of metadata is desired real time service processor may instead query one of these modules to obtain the information. Domain relations module includes a data storage device configured as a database for storing metadata about relationships between media content and descriptors of media content such as genre actors media domain rating etc. . Content metadata module includes a data storage device configured as a database for storing frequently requested metadata. Additionally metadata module may include only those metadata fields that are commonly used for the recommendation techniques executed by real time service processor . In some implementations metadata module stores a subset of the data stored in CCRM module in a format that can be easily filtered according to the parameters of a search or recommendation request e.g. a tabular format that can be quickly filtered to exclude movies rated R and above . Search indices module includes a data storage device configured as a database for storing search heuristics that may be used by real time service processor to improve search performance. Many search techniques utilize heuristics such as removing spaces from search queries transforming queries into lower case characters comparing a search query against a list of common variations and misspellings and identifying one or more n grams within a search query among others.

Real time service processor receives information from domain relations module metadata module and search indices module as described above and provides recommendation information to client devices such as client device . The components of catalog and recommendation system may be distributed between multiple processing and storage devices for example the components of catalog and recommendation system may be divided between media guidance data source media content source and client data service via device gateway in orchestration component . Device gateway may include any transmission path suitable for communicating recommendation information such as the path between media guidance data source and communication network and paths and between communication network and client devices . In particular real time service processor is configured to provide metadata in response to various types of client queries e.g. for metadata matching a search term for metadata on content related to a particular content item etc. . Real time service processor may provide for example identifiers of particular content as well as metadata for that content e.g. album art in response to a music search request . Real time service processor may execute any of the recommendation techniques described in detail below. Real time service processor may also query CCRM module directly or provide feedback to CCRM module as an application on a client device interacts with catalog and recommendation system through device gateway . In some implementations real time service processor is implemented as a web service executing on an Apache Tomcat or other server.

Real time service processor also communicates with profiles database which may include a data storage device configured as a database for storing information about client preferences including preference values calculated by real time service processor as described herewith reference to client equipment client event history or other information relevant for transmitting recommendations and data to a client. In some implementations profiles database stores profile information individual users who may be users of an intermediate client service . Media guidance applications such as recommendation applications may be personalized based on a client s preferences as stored in profiles database . A personalized media guidance application allows a client to customize displays and features to create a personalized experience with the media guidance application. The customizations may include varying presentation schemes e.g. color scheme of displays font size of text etc. aspects of content listings displayed e.g. only HDTV or only 3D programming client specified broadcast channels based on favorite channel selections re ordering the display of channels recommended content etc. desired recording features e.g. recording or series recordings for particular users recording quality etc. parental control settings customized presentation of Internet content e.g. presentation of social media content e mail electronically delivered articles etc. and other desired customizations. This personalized experience may be created by allowing a client such as a user to input these customizations and or by the media guidance application monitoring user activity to determine various user preferences.

Clients may access their personalized guidance application by logging in communicating with catalog and recommendation system using a designated protocol over path or otherwise identifying themselves to the guidance application. The media guidance application may allow a client to provide profile information for profiles database or may automatically compile profile information. The media guidance application may for example monitor the content the client accesses and or other interactions the user may have with the guidance application including responses to and feedback based on recommended content. Profiles database may communicate with event database which may store event records that contain information about client interactions with catalog and recommendation system . Profiles database may access event database to reconstruct a client s history of use of catalog and recommendation system and to determine content preferences as described in detail below e.g. with reference to . Additionally the media guidance application may obtain all or part of other profiles that are related to a particular client e.g. from other web sites on the Internet the client accesses such as www.allrovi.com from other media guidance applications the client accesses from other interactive applications the client accesses from another device of the client etc. and or obtain information about the client from other sources that the media guidance application may access. As a result a client can be provided with a unified guidance application experience across the client s different devices. This type of experience is described in greater detail below. Additional personalized media guidance application features are described in greater detail in Ellis et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0251827 filed Jul. 11 2005 Boyer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 165 098 issued Jan. 16 2007 and Ellis et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0174430 filed Feb. 21 2002 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Real time service transmits information to and receives information from client devices by way of path and device gateway . As described above with reference to paths and of path may include one or more communication paths such as a satellite path a fiber optic path a cable path a path that supports Internet communications free space connections or any other suitable wired or wireless communications path or combination of such paths. Device gateway may be for example a web service implemented on one or more server devices configured to receive requests from client devices via path . The client devices that communicate with device gateway may be client devices of . These client devices may take the form of client device for example and may communicate with device gateway via I O path . The data provided to client devices via path may be supplemented by data from supplemental database which may store metadata and media content that is provided along with the information transmitted from real time service processor to device gateway . Supplemental database may include for example media content source . For example in response to a call to device gateway from a client device device gateway may send a search or recommendation request to real time service processor . Real time service processor may respond by sending a list of content identifiers that satisfy the request back to device gateway at which point device gateway will request appropriate supplementary information from supplemental database e.g. clips of videos whose identifiers are included in the data provided to device gateway by real time service processor . In some implementations supplemental database is populated with information from content information database domain relations module metadata module or search indices module or may be the same as one or more of these databases or modules.

Dispatcher processor is also in communication with a number of service modules in web service tier including REST v1 service module REST v2 service module and SOAP service module . These different service modules provide interfaces and transport mechanisms for accessing the back end processing and data of orchestration tier . REST and SOAP are two different ways of packaging input and output data and any other such protocols may be used. In some embodiments service processor includes processing and networking hardware configured with a software platform for serving dynamically generated recommendations applications in XML and JSON.

In some embodiments index export module or service processor includes one or more data contracts. Data contracts are electronic data files encoded in a data definition language that define a type and structure of data available to an application that accesses a service that operates according to the contract. When an application accesses a contracted service the application can parse the contract to determine what data e.g. assets metadata recommendations etc. the service can provide. A single service may be instantiated multiple times with different contracts with each contract governing a different type of data. A service may advertise the data types and structures that according to the contract the service can provide to applications. The application may receive this information and determine which services provide data of a type and structure that is compatible with the application s own purpose and architecture. Multiple services each with its own contract or contracts may communicate with each other passing data through the services and transforming the data repackaging the data or adding content along the way. In some embodiments a service determines the contracts that it advertises based on the contracts that it reads in from other services indicating the data types and structure to which the service has access plus additional fields and operations that represent additional functionality provided by the service itself.

The types and structure of data specified in a contract may take any of a number of forms. For example a recommendation system may receive a search or other query and may return pointers to media assets and fields containing metadata about those media assets. Thus in some configurations of service processor each of services and advertises the operations the service supports the types of data that the service can return per operation and the fields it can return per data type per operation. A field may be single or multi valued optional or required and stored as strings or more complex data objects such via a map to an internal object through JSON . The same contract can also be used in different service contexts which utilize different sets of underlying source data e.g. different third party metadata catalog .

As described above the systems and devices of may be configured to execute or support media guidance applications that provide recommendations to clients for media in which a user may be interested. Disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing content data that use information about events to dynamically determine relationships between content elements and thereby update preference predictions for clients. The term event is used herein to refer to any activity which provides information about a user s or group of users preferences for or against a content element. Examples of events include but are not limited to downloads purchases subscriptions to a magazine or web site tweets and re tweets click through views visits bids and Facebook likes. Events may be measured individually e.g. a user viewed a particular You tube video statistically e.g. a user spent an average of four minutes per day visiting a fan web site last month aggregated over multiple users e.g. a particular song has been downloaded two million times by all users associated with a particular intermediate client or any combination of these or other measures. The term content element is used herein to refer to any asset category feature property or other characteristic of content whose preference value is tracked by catalog and recommendation system according to the methods described herein. Examples of content elements include particular assets e.g. the Beatles White Album or descriptors such as categories e.g. detective novels attributes e.g. actors directors language or any other piece of information about content that a user may have a preference for or against.

At step real time service processor initializes a preference state which includes a preference value for each content element monitored by real time service processor . The preference value for a content element represents a confidence in a user s expected preference for that element. The preference state may also include values that represent a user s preference for combinations of two or more elements e.g. the likelihood that a user simultaneously prefers two movies or prefers one movie and doesn t prefer another movie . A preference state value that represents a user s preference for a combination of n elements is referred to herein as an n element preference value. For example a preference value representing a user s preference for two books is referred to as a 2 element preference value. In some embodiments an n element preference value is a binary value with 1 representing that the user prefers the underlying combination of content elements and 0 representing that the user does not prefer the combination. In some embodiments an n element preference value is a continuous or discrete value drawn from a range of values. For example an n element preference value may represent a probability that a user prefers the underlying combination of content elements. In this example each n element preference value may have a value in the range 0 1 . In some embodiments real time service processor determines n element preference values by using m element preference values where m is less than n. For example real time service processor may determine 3 element preference values at step by combining 1 element preference values and 2 element preference values. One such embodiment of step is described in detail with reference to the exemplary embodiment of the process of described below.

In some embodiments real time service processor initializes the preference state with information provided by human editors who evaluate an initial set of content elements e.g. assets and categories related to the assets on a scale of zero to one with zero representing a content element that a user is unlikely to prefer and one representing a content element that a user will certainly prefer. In some embodiments real time service processor initializes the preference state by analyzing data representative of previous consumption of or preference for different content elements e.g. download frequency sales positive reviews number of times an element has been referred to in a tweet number of times an element has been liked on Facebook etc. . This data may be transmitted electronically to real time service processor e.g. via input or may be gathered by catalog and recommendation system by analyzing data regarding previous events stored for example in event database or profiles database . In some embodiments real time service processor uses multiple techniques for initializing the preference state for a single content element e.g. computing the average of two sales figures and scaling that average against a scale representing maximum and minimum sales value or uses different techniques for different content elements e.g. tweets for a website and downloads for an e book . These embodiments may be particularly advantageous when content element information is derived from multiple sources each of which may quantify the popularity of a particular content element in a different way.

At step real time service processor retrieves an event record from event database . An event record may consist of information about an activity referred to as the event activity and information about an associated content element referred to as the event element . Examples of event activities and content elements are given above and throughout this disclosure. Event records may be assembled and stored internally to catalog and recommendation system in event database or may be provided to catalog and recommendation system by an external event record system e.g. via input or path . In some embodiments catalog and recommendation system receives multiple different kinds of event records from multiple external sources and processes these event records into a consistent format e.g. using SQL or another relational database language . In some embodiments real time service processor performs step in near real time with the event record retrieved in response to or shortly after the occurrence of the event . In some embodiments real time service processor retrieves an event record at step from a queue of event records in event database in such embodiments step may be performed when the number of event records in the queue exceeds a threshold number or when sufficient processing power is available to process the event record for example. Real time service processor may not process queued event records in a linear order and may instead process records representing more significant events before records representing less significant events. For example a user purchase of an album by the band Slayer may be more indicative of the user s preference for the band Slayer than a user viewing of a Slayer video on a free online video service and thus real time service processor may process the event record associated with the purchase before the event record associated with the viewing even if the viewing took place before the purchase.

At step real time service processor selects a content element from an index of content elements stored e.g. with profiles database . Although the event record retrieved at step is associated with an event element as discussed above an event may provide information about content elements other than the event element. For example a user who purchases an event activity an album by the band Slayer the event element associated with the event activity indicates a preference for the band Slayer but may also indicate a preference for the genre of Death Metal another content element because the band Slayer may be said to belong to the genre of Death Metal . The recommendation techniques described herein allow information from an event associated with an event element to influence predicted preference values for content elements besides the event element. Thus at step real time service processor selects a content element that may or may not be the event element of the event record returned at step and may instead be the first or other content element in a database of content elements. In some embodiments the set of content elements from which a content element is selected at step may depend on the event element. For example real time service processor may be configured to assume that there is no correlation between a preference for Death Metal and a preference for Contemporary Opera and thus when an event record is returned at step with Death Metal as its event element real time service processor will not select Contemporary Opera as the content element at step . Such embodiments may require less computational power since relationships that are presumptively zero need not be considered but at the risk of not detecting or adequately characterizing a relationship between two content elements whose non zero relationship may not be obvious to the administrators of catalog and recommendation system . After a content element is selected at step steps are performed with respect to the selected content element as described below.

At step real time service processor retrieves one or more event element factors from a storage device such as profiles database . An event element factor represents the relationship between a user s preference for the selected content element and the event whose record was returned at step . Event element factors may come in two varieties positive event element factors which represent the tendency of a user who prefers the content element to give rise to the event and negative event element factors which represent the tendency of a user who does not prefer the content element to give rise to the event. Event element factors may be set using any of the techniques described above with reference to initializing the preference state at step e.g. by human editors by analyzing data representative of joint likelihoods of events and elements such as purchase or download data etc. .

At step real time service processor updates the preference value for the content element selected at step . To determine the current preference value real time service processor may query one or more internal variables or may query other devices in communication with catalog and recommendation system that are configured to store current preference values such as profiles database . In an embodiment real time service processor maintains a record of the current preference values as a state variable in a memory e.g. an external or remote memory . For example if real time service processor is configured to maintain preference values for eight different content elements a memory array of 8 elements may be used to store the current preference state. Real time service processor may update the preference value at step in any of a number of ways. In some embodiments real time service processor calculates an updated preference value by multiplying the current preference value by the corresponding event element factor. For example if the event is the purchase of a Slayer album and the content element under consideration is the genre of Contemporary Opera the current 1 element preference value may be updated by multiplying by the event element factor that relates the purchase of a Slayer album to a preference for Contemporary Opera. In some embodiments real time service processor calculates an updated preference value by multiplying the current preference value by the 2 element preference value that relates the content element of interest to the event element. In some embodiments real time service processor calculates an updated preference value by multiplying the current preference value by the 2 element preference value that relates the content element of interest to the event element then multiplying the result by the event element factor that relates the event activity to the event element. Another exemplary embodiment of step is discussed in detail below.

At step real time service processor determines whether the preference values of all content elements has been updated. If not real time service processor returns to step to select a next content element. If real time service processor determines at step that the preference values for all content elements have been updated after all content elements are updated in this fashion real time service processor may normalize the preference state e.g. linearly scaled so that the maximum preference value has a numerical value of one or non linearly scaled so that the preference values span the range 0 1 . Real time service processor may then return to step to retrieve a next event record and may reiterate the remaining steps of flow diagram using this event record.

An exemplary embodiment of a preference updating process in accordance with flow diagram of is now described. This embodiment includes advantageous modifications of some of the tools of Bayesian statistics to improve the preference updating process. In this embodiment at step real time service processor initializes the preference state with both 1 element preference values and 2 element preference values. In the following discussion L denotes a content element P L denotes the 1 element preference value for the content element h and P L L denotes the 2 element preference value for the two content elements Land L. In this embodiment P L represents the probability that a user prefers content element L and P L L represents the probability that a user prefers both content elements Land L. The preference values can be initialized at step using any of the techniques described above e.g. manual entry by an administrator based on prior consumption data . The initial preference values are denoted by P and the values determined after the kth event record denoted E has been received and processed are denoted by P. The preference state after the event record t has been received and processed is denoted by 

In this embodiment an event record received at step is denoted by E and includes an event activity A and an event element T. An event record with multiple event elements may be treated as multiple events with the same action and different event elements. The event element factor step that relates an event E with a content element L is denoted by P E L which represents the conditional probability that a user who prefers content element L will give rise to event E. In this embodiment these event element factors are constant and stored in memory associated with real time service processor e.g. profiles database of by administrators based on prior consumption data but may be determined or approximated by an automated system based on any preference related information .

At step real time service processor updates the preference values according to the following rule based on Bayesian statistics 2 

In order to express P E L in terms of P E L this embodiment employs an approximation that E and L are conditionally independent given L. That is if a user is known to prefer L the likelihood that the event E will occur is unaffected by whether or not the user prefers another content element L. This approximation allows Eq. 4 to be rewritten as follows using the law of total probability and the traditional definition of conditional probability 

Using the expression of Eq. 5 allows real time service processor to calculate P L the 1 element preference state update in terms of known quantities. Because the preference state also includes 2 element values real time service processor must also determine 6 

At this stage real time service processor employs a second approximation for P L L L which includes two separate cases. In the case where two of L L and Lare independent then real time service processor operates according to the assumption that they will continue to be independent in the event of L and thus 

If no two of L L and Lare independent real time service processor selects the smallest of the three intersections of two content elements P L L P L L P L L since P L L L cannot be greater than the smallest of these. If Land Ldenote the two selected and Lthe other real time service processor approximates the ratio of P L L L to P L L based on the ratios of P L L to P L and P L L to P L in accordance with

Thus in this embodiment real time service processor executes step of the preference updating process of by updating the 1 element preference state according to the expression of Eq. 5 and the 2 element preference state according to the expressions of Eqs. 8 10.

The preference updating technique of as well as the other recommendation techniques described herein may be used to provide recommendation data that may be used in a variety of settings. For example as described above recommendation data may be used with a media guidance application executed on a user s set top box recording device personal computer handheld computing device or any other client device e.g. these described above with reference to client device of . A media guidance application using this recommendation data may also be executed by a web server which may deliver displays including recommendation data to client derives using a communications network. Exemplary displays and applications e.g. advertisements assts channels were descried above with references to but the recommendation data provided by the systems and techniques disclosed herein may be used in any number of settings in which personalized or otherwise targeted data is desired.

Discussed above are techniques for quantifying and updating a user s predicted preferences for different content elements. However before making a recommendation for a particular content element the recommendation systems described herein may also advantageously consider how polarizing that content element may be. As discussed above highly polarizing content element tends to elect strong reaction in users they either love it or hate it. A less polarizing content element tends not to elicit strong reactions though different users may prefer or not prefer it. The systems and methods disclosed herein may use information about how polarizing a content element is to determine what recommendations to provide to client devices. For example new clients accessing catalog and recommendation system for the first time may be provided with recommendations for less polarizing content e.g. via a media guidance application that provides a display like any of for a predetermined period of time or number of accesses or until catalog and recommendation system has obtained a threshold amount of client specific data e.g. in the form of events that can be used in the preference determination process of . In some implementations catalog and recommendation system may provide recommendations for highly polarizing content upon determining that a client is particularly interested in such content e.g. by correlating the client s preferences with polarity scores or by receiving polarity specific information as described below with reference to . Polarity information may be used in any of a number of additional applications in which controversial or non controversial recommendations are preferred. For example polarity information may be used to select a content element to populate a survey feature in a media guidance application that elicits user inputs as to how much they like or dislike a given content element in which case highly polarizing content elements may elicit greater participation in the survey .

The systems and methods described herein may quantify how polarizing a content element is by determining a polarity score associated with that asset. In some implementations a polarity score represents the amount by which the distribution of preferences for a content element accumulated over multiple clients or other sources differs from the average preference for that content element. A polarity score may further represent how concentrated preferences are around two or more values. This concept is illustrated in which depict four different preference distributions and . The preference distributions of are represent the percentage of respondents e.g. takers of a survey reviewers of a book viewers of a video on demand etc. that assigned a particular preference score to a given content element e.g. an actor a genre a film etc. . In the preference scores are distributed on a scale that runs between a left end point of 5 representing a strong dislike of the content element and a right end point of 5 representing a strong liking of the content element but this scale is simply illustrative and any numerical or non numerical scale e.g. a grading system like A F or a number of stars may be used. In the average preference value of distribution is indicated by vertical line and it is clear that single peak of distribution roughly coincides with average . Thus in distribution most preference values occur on or around average and thus distribution may have a relatively low polarity score. In distribution also has single peak that roughly coincides with average but distribution is wider than distribution indicating that there are more respondents who felt more strongly about the content element either liking or disliking than in distribution of . Thus distribution of may have a higher polarity score than distribution of though still only one peak .

The systems and methods described herein may determine polarity scores in any of a number of ways. In some implementations polarity scores for content elements are input into catalog and recommendation system by human administrators e.g. via editorial influence module . An administrator facing graphical user interface may be provided to receive such inputs. In illustrative administration facing display of an administrator is able to enter values for a number of fields . The administrator may manually enter these values select the values from a drop down menu or have some of the values e.g. content element type and domain automatically filled in when the administrator selects a content element via display or beforehand. The administrator is allowed to set a polarity score for a content element in two ways by selecting a point on a spectrum between not polarizing and polarizing as illustrated by display element or by entering a numerical value e.g. between 0 and 1 as discussed above and as illustrated by display element . In some embodiments real time service processor may automatically fill in a recommended polarity score in display using for example any of the polarity scoring techniques discussed above and the administrator may adjust or accept the recommended score.

In some implementations one or more processors of catalog and recommendation system e.g. data mining processor or real time service processor may determine a polarity score associated with a content element based on a distribution of preference values for that element. The preference values used in this determination may be the same preference values used in the preference updating process of or may be other indicators of preference for or against certain content elements as described above e.g. user ratings of the content element . The preference values used to determine polarity scores may come from a particular client or group of clients and the resulting polarity scores may be used for that particular client or group of clients only. For example real time service processor may aggregate preference values from each user in a group of users e.g. all users of catalog and recommendation system or a subset of users similar to a user of interest then compute a summary statistic of the distribution of preference values that is indicative of the polarity of the distribution as described in more detail below . In some embodiments the polarity score is represented by a binary value with 1 indicating that the content element is polarizing and 0 indicating that the content element is non polarizing. In some embodiments the polarity score is a continuous or discrete value drawn from a range of values e.g. the range 0 1 .

Data mining processor or real time service processor may determine a polarity score by applying one or more polarity characterization techniques to a distribution of preference values such as the techniques listed below. These techniques are merely exemplary and any technique may be used that results in a score that is indicative of the amount by which a set of preference values differs from an average preference value and in some embodiments the degree to which the set of preference values is concentrated around two or more different values .

1. Determine the average positive i.e. liking preference value and the average negative i.e. dislike preference value and set the polarity score equal to the difference between them.

2. Determine the variance of the distribution of preference values and set the polarity score equal to the variance.

3. Determine whether the distribution of preference values has more than one peak if so set the polarity score equal to a predetermined value e.g. 1 and if not set the polarity score equal to a different predetermined value e.g. 0 . This technique may also include smoothing the distribution prior to determining the number of peaks e.g. using an interpolation function or a moving average or filter . 4. Determine the total number of possible preference values e.g. five if the preference values can take the values 2 1 0 1 and 2 determine the percentage of the total number of preference values equal to a particular value and calculate the polarity score in accordance with

Systems and methods for using polarity scores to determine what recommendations to provide to client devices are now described in additional detail. is a flow diagram of a process for providing content recommendations based on polarity scores.

At step real time service processor identifies a set of candidate content elements that will be considered for recommending to a client device. Content elements are described in detail above and throughout this disclosure. The set of content elements identified at step may include all of the content elements managed by real time service processor or only some of the content elements e.g. those belonging to a particular media domain or genre requested by a client device those corresponding to content created within the last month or year etc. . In some embodiments the set of content elements identified at step includes only those content elements for which polarity scores are available. A content elements may not have an associated polarity scores because no scores has yet been computed or because not enough preference value data is available to compute a polarity score with sufficient confidence or accuracy.

At step real time service processor begins evaluating each of the candidate content elements identified at step by selecting one of the content elements e.g. the first content element in an ordered list of the candidate content elements . At step real time service processor receives preference value information for the content element selected at step . This preference value information may take the form of a histogram of preference values one or more summary statistics of the distribution of preference values e.g. the variance or average positive or negative values as described above or any other form of information that real time service processor can use to determine a polarity score. At step real time service processor determines a polarity score associated with the content element selected at step . A detailed description of polarity scores and many examples of scoring techniques are given above. In some implementations the polarity score determined at step may be based on the preference value information received at step . In some implementations the polarity score determined at step may be manually set by a human administrator e.g. via editorial influence module of and thus real time service processor may not use the preference value information received at step in which case that step may be omitted .

At step real time service processor determines a polarity threshold against which to evaluate the polarity score determined at step . In some embodiments real time service processor will not recommend content elements with polarity scores that exceed the polarity threshold may reduce the likelihood that those content elements will be recommended as described in detail below with reference to or may recommend those content elements separately e.g. via a Take a Chance navigation element or area in display of not shown . The polarity threshold may be a fixed value used for all content elements and all clients or may vary by client by users associated with clients by media domain e.g. music movies over time or any combination. In some implementations the polarity threshold of step depends on the polarity scores determined for each of the candidate content elements. For example the polarity threshold used at step may be the minimum polarity score of the polarity scores determined for each of the candidate content elements identified at step . In such implementations the order of the steps of the flow diagram of may be rearranged so that polarity scores are calculated for each candidate content element before the polarity threshold is set and any comparisons to that threshold are made.

In some implementations the polarity threshold is manually set by an administrator e.g. via editorial influence module or profiles database of . In some implementations real time service processor determines the polarity threshold based on the preference values for the selected content element or for a group of content elements that does or does not include the selected content element. For example real time service processor may set the polarity threshold at one standard deviation below the average preference value for all content elements within the same media domain as the selected content element or at one standard deviation below the average preference value for the content elements that are the most often recommended by catalog and recommendation system . In some embodiments real time service processor determines the polarity threshold at step based on a client s e.g. a user s interest in and tolerance for polarizing content. For example real time service processor may determine a client s e.g. a user s interest in polarizing content by analyzing previous events associated with the client e.g. how often the client purchases downloads or gives a thumbs up to polarizing content or by setting the polarity threshold based on the average median or mode of polarity scores of content that the client is known to prefer . In some embodiments device gateway solicits input from a client via client devices regarding the client s interest in polarizing content elements. In illustrative display of which may be displayed on display of client device a client is presented with a set of polarity questions after the client has selected the Your Profile navigation element . Each of the polarity questions in display elicits a response from the client that may indicate the client s interest in or tolerance for polarizing content. Real time service processor may score the client s response to each of the polarity questions e.g. with a 1 indicating little interest in or tolerance for polarizing content and a 5 indicating a lot of interest in or tolerance for polarizing content and may average or otherwise compile the scores to develop a polarity threshold for use at step or other characterization of the client s polarity preferences for use in making contemporaneous or future recommendations.

Returning to the flow diagram of at step real time service processor compares the polarity score determined at step to the polarity threshold determined at step to determine whether the polarity score exceeds the polarity threshold. If yes real time service processor may not provide a recommendation for the content element at this time and may proceed to step to determine whether there are other candidate content elements that may be recommendable and if so real time service processor proceeds to step to select another content element. If real time service processor determines at step that the polarity score determined at step does not exceed the polarity threshold determined at step real time service processor may designate the selected content element as recommendable or otherwise include the selected content element in a list of content elements that will be or are likely to be recommended. Real time service processor then proceeds to step to determine whether there are other candidate content elements that may be recommendable as described above.

Once real time service processor determines at step that all candidate content elements have been considered real time service processor proceeds to step and transmits a recommendation to a client device using the recommendable content elements designated at step . All or only some of the recommendable content elements are recommended at step . In some embodiments real time service processor uses the polarity scores to determine the temporal or spatial order of the recommendations. For example if catalog and recommendation system determines that five content elements are to be recommended to a client device and one of those content elements is more polarizing than the others real time service processor may display the content element recommendations so that the more polarizing element is likely to be considered last by the client e.g. last in a temporal sequence or at the bottom of a display of recommended content . As described in detail above recommendations can be transmitted to client devices in a number of ways and can be used in a number of different media guidance contexts e.g. to populate advertisements in media guidance applications to recommend purchases in a web based shopping application etc. . In some implementations transmitting a recommendation for a content element includes transmitting metadata descriptive of that content element to a client device e.g. album art reviews textual descriptions etc. .

In some embodiments a media guidance system is configured to change the effect of polarity scores on which recommendations are provided by adjusting the polarity threshold that is used in the recommendation process of . is a flow diagram of a polarity threshold adjustment process that may be implemented by for example real time service processor of . At step real time service processor identifies a client request for access to catalog and recommendation system e.g. a search query a More Like This request a log in a user profile entry or any other request at input to which recommendation data is to be provided in response . At step real time service processor determines whether the client has accessed catalog and recommendation system more than a threshold number of times using one or more client devices such as any of client devices of . The number of times may be counted using log ins searches other requests or any other indication of use of catalog and recommendation system . If the client has accessed the system more than the threshold number of times then real time service processor proceeds to step and determines whether the client has indicated an aversion to polarizing content. This aversion may be indicated by a client on behalf of a user for example and may be provided in any number of ways including those discussed above with reference to . If real time service processor determines at step that the client has not indicated such an aversion real time service processor decreases the polarity threshold at step . When real time service processor uses the polarity threshold to determine which content elements are recommended e.g. as described above with reference to the process of decreasing the polarity threshold may allow more polarizing content elements to be recommended by catalog and recommendation system . If real time service processor determines at step that a client has indicated an aversion to polarizing content at step or if real time service processor determines that the client has not accessed catalog and recommendation system more than the threshold number of times at step real time service processor increases or maintains the polarity threshold at its previous value at step . Increasing the polarity threshold at step may reduce the likelihood that polarizing content elements are recommended by catalog and recommendation system .

The amount by which real time service processor decreases the polarity threshold at step or increases the polarity threshold at step may be adjusted by administrators of catalog and recommendation system depending on how the polarity threshold is used and the needs and desires of particular clients. These amounts may also vary by information about particular users or clients stored in profiles database e.g. an older user or client service directed to older users may have polarity thresholds decrease more slowly that a younger user .

In some implementations polarity scores may be taken into account during preference value initialization and updating processes. For example real time service processor may use the polarity scores to initialize the preference state at step of the preference updating process of by using polarity to adjust base preference values to determine the initial preference values. Each base preference value may represent some aspect of the distribution of preferences for the corresponding content element such as the average value or the most common value. Polarity scores may then be used to adjust these base preference values up or down depending on the application to arrive at an initial preference value that may be used to provide recommendations e.g. according to the preference updating process of .

If real time service processor determines that the polarity score is not greater than the initialization threshold at step real time service processor sets the initial preference value for that content element equal to the base preference value at step . In some implementations instead of setting the initial preference value equal to the base preference value real time service processor increases the base preference value to generate the initial preference value which may increase the likelihood that the content element will be part of a recommendation. If real time service processor determines that the polarity score is greater than the initialization threshold at step real time service processor generates the initial preference value for the content element by reducing the base preference value at step . In some implementations of step real time service processor determines initial preference scores at step by multiplying the base preference score for the content element by a function of the polarity score constructed so that the initial preference score decreases as the polarity score increases. For example if polarity scores are defined on the interval 0 1 with 0 indicating no polarity and 1 indicating high polarity real time service processor may generate the initial preference value at step by multiplying the base preference value by one minus the polarity score. In some implementations real time service processor generates initial preference values for content elements whose associated polarity scores exceed an initialization threshold by reducing the base preference values by a fixed amount or percentage e.g. reducing by 50 .

At step real time service processor uses the initial preference values determined at steps or to initialize the preference state at step of the process of . Real time service processor may then proceed with the preference updating process of .

The following discussion addresses further embodiments of display screens client devices and systems suitable for use with the asset cataloging search and recommendation techniques described herein. As noted above the following discussion will often be presented in the context of media guidance applications but it will be understood that these illustrative examples do not limit the range of interactive applications which may be improved by the use of the asset cataloging search and recommendation techniques of the present disclosure.

With the advent of the Internet mobile computing and high speed wireless networks users are accessing media on client devices on which they traditionally did not. As referred to herein the phrase client device user equipment user device electronic device electronic equipment media equipment device or media device should be understood to mean any device for accessing the content described above such as a television a Smart TV a set top box an integrated receiver decoder IRD for handling satellite television a digital storage device a digital media receiver DMR a digital media adapter DMA a streaming media device a DVD player a DVD recorder a connected DVD a local media server a BLU RAY player a BLU RAY recorder a personal computer PC a laptop computer a tablet computer a WebTV box a personal computer television PC TV a PC media server a PC media center a hand held computer a stationary telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a portable video player a portable music player a portable gaming machine a smart phone or any other television equipment computing equipment or wireless device and or combination of the same. In some embodiments the client device may have a front facing screen and a rear facing screen multiple front screens or multiple angled screens. In some embodiments the client device may have a front facing camera and or a rear facing camera. On these client devices users may be able to navigate among and locate the same content available through a television. Consequently media guidance may be available on these devices as well. The guidance provided may be for content available only through a television for content available only through one or more of other types of client devices or for content available both through a television and one or more of the other types of client devices. The media guidance applications may be provided as on line applications i.e. provided on a web site or as stand alone applications or clients on client devices. The various devices and platforms that may implement media guidance applications are described in more detail below.

In addition to providing access to linear programming e.g. content that is scheduled to be transmitted to a plurality of client devices at a predetermined time and is provided according to a schedule the media guidance application also provides access to non linear programming e.g. content accessible to a client device at any time and is not provided according to a schedule . Non linear programming may include content from different content sources including on demand content e.g. VOD Internet content e.g. streaming media downloadable media etc. locally stored content e.g. content stored on any client device described above or other storage device or other time independent content. On demand content may include movies or any other content provided by a particular content provider e.g. HBO On Demand providing The Sopranos and Curb Your Enthusiasm . HBO ON DEMAND is a service mark owned by Time Warner Company L. P. et al. and THE SOPRANOS and CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM are trademarks owned by the Home Box Office Inc. Internet content may include web events such as a chat session or Webcast or content available on demand as streaming content or downloadable content through an Internet web site or other Internet access e.g. FTP .

Grid may provide media guidance data for non linear programming including on demand listing recorded content listing and Internet content listing . A display combining media guidance data for content from different types of content sources is sometimes referred to as a mixed media display. The various permutations of the types of media guidance data that may be displayed that are different than display may be based on user selection or guidance application definition e.g. a display of only recorded and broadcast listings only on demand and broadcast listings etc. . As illustrated listings and are shown as spanning the entire time block displayed in grid to indicate that selection of these listings may provide access to a display dedicated to on demand listings recorded listings or Internet listings respectively. In some embodiments listings for these content types may be included directly in grid . Additional media guidance data may be displayed in response to the user selecting one of the navigational icons . Pressing an arrow key on a user input device may affect the display in a similar manner as selecting navigational icons .

Advertisement may provide an advertisement for content that depending on a viewer s access rights e.g. for subscription programming is currently available for viewing will be available for viewing in the future or may never become available for viewing and may correspond to or be unrelated to one or more of the content listings in grid . Advertisement may also be for products or services related or unrelated to the content displayed in grid . Advertisement may be selectable and provide further information about content provide information about a product or a service enable purchasing of content a product or a service provide content relating to the advertisement etc. Advertisement may be targeted based on a user s profile preferences monitored user activity the type of display provided or on other suitable targeted advertisement bases.

While advertisement is shown as rectangular or banner shaped advertisements may be provided in any suitable size shape and location in a guidance application display. For example advertisement may be provided as a rectangular shape that is horizontally adjacent to grid . This is sometimes referred to as a panel advertisement. In addition advertisements may be overlaid over content or a guidance application display or embedded within a display. Advertisements may also include text images rotating images video clips or other types of content described above. Advertisements may be stored in a client device having a guidance application in a database connected to the client in a remote location including streaming media servers or on other storage means or a combination of these locations. Providing advertisements in a media guidance application is discussed in greater detail in for example Knudson et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0110499 filed Jan. 17 2003 Ward III et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 756 997 issued Jun. 29 2004 and Schein et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 388 714 issued May 14 2002 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties. It will be appreciated that advertisements may be included in other media guidance application display screens of the embodiments described herein.

In an embodiment display of may be augmented by any of the items and features described above for display of . For example advertisement may take the form of any of the embodiments described above for advertisement . The listings in display are of different sizes i.e. listing is larger than listings and but if desired all the listings may be the same size. Listings may be of different sizes or graphically accentuated to indicate degrees of interest to the user or to emphasize certain content as desired by the content provider or based on user preferences. Various systems and methods for graphically accentuating content listings are discussed in for example Yates U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0153885 filed Dec. 29 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As discussed above the systems and methods of the present disclosure may be implemented in whole or in part by client of which includes control circuitry . Control circuitry may be based on any suitable processing circuitry such as processing circuitry . As referred to herein processing circuitry should be understood to mean circuitry based on one or more microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs etc. and may include a multi core processor e.g. dual core quad core hexa core or any suitable number of cores or supercomputer. In some embodiments processing circuitry may be distributed across multiple separate processors or processing units for example multiple of the same type of processing units e.g. two Intel Core i7 processors or multiple different processors e.g. an Intel Core i5 processor and an Intel Core i7 processor . In some embodiments control circuitry executes instructions for a media guidance application stored in memory i.e. storage .

In client server based embodiments control circuitry may include communications circuitry suitable for communicating with a guidance application server or other networks or servers. The instructions for carrying out the above mentioned functionality may be stored on the guidance application server. Communications circuitry may include a cable modem an integrated services digital network ISDN modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem a telephone modem Ethernet card or a wireless modem for communications with other equipment or any other suitable communications circuitry. Such communications may involve the Internet or any other suitable communications networks or paths which is described in more detail in connection with . In addition communications circuitry may include circuitry that enables peer to peer communication of client devices or communication of client devices in locations remote from each other described in more detail below . Server centric and or peer to peer communication may enable the pooling of preferences and behaviors between users for use with the systems and techniques disclosed herein.

Memory may be an electronic storage device provided as storage that is part of control circuitry . As referred to herein the phrase electronic storage device or storage device should be understood to mean any device for storing electronic data computer software or firmware such as random access memory read only memory hard drives optical drives digital video disc DVD recorders compact disc CD recorders BLU RAY disc BD recorders BLU RAY 3D disc recorders digital video recorders DVR sometimes called a personal video recorder or PVR  solid state devices quantum storage devices gaming consoles gaming media or any other suitable fixed or removable storage devices and or any combination of the same. Storage may be used to store various types of content described herein as well as media guidance information described above and guidance application data described above. Nonvolatile memory may also be used e.g. to launch a boot up routine and other instructions . Cloud based storage described in relation to may be used to supplement storage or instead of storage .

Control circuitry may include video generating circuitry and tuning circuitry such as one or more analog tuners one or more MPEG 2 decoders or other digital decoding circuitry high definition tuners or any other suitable tuning or video circuits or combinations of such circuits. Encoding circuitry e.g. for converting over the air analog or digital signals to MPEG signals for storage may also be provided. Control circuitry may also include scaler circuitry for upconverting and downconverting content into the preferred output format of the client device . Circuitry may also include digital to analog converter circuitry and analog to digital converter circuitry for converting between digital and analog signals. The tuning and encoding circuitry may be used by the client device to receive and to display to play or to record content. The tuning and encoding circuitry may also be used to receive guidance data. The circuitry described herein including for example the tuning video generating encoding decoding encrypting decrypting scaler and analog digital circuitry may be implemented using software running on one or more general purpose or specialized processors. Multiple tuners may be provided to handle simultaneous tuning functions e.g. watch and record functions picture in picture PIP functions multiple tuner recording etc. . If storage is provided as a separate device from client device the tuning and encoding circuitry including multiple tuners may be associated with storage .

The guidance application may be implemented using any suitable architecture. For example it may be a stand alone application wholly implemented on client device . In such an approach instructions of the application are stored locally and data for use by the application is downloaded on a periodic basis e.g. from an out of band feed from an Internet resource or using another suitable approach . In some embodiments the media guidance application is a client server based application. Data for use by a thick or thin client implemented on client device is retrieved on demand by issuing requests to a server remote to the client device . In one example of a client server based guidance application control circuitry runs a web browser that interprets web pages provided by a remote server.

In some embodiments the media guidance application is downloaded and interpreted or otherwise run by an interpreter or virtual machine run by control circuitry . In some embodiments the guidance application may be encoded in the ETV Binary Interchange Format EBIF received by control circuitry as part of a suitable feed and interpreted by a user agent running on control circuitry . For example the guidance application may be an EBIF application. In some embodiments the guidance application may be defined by a series of JAVA based files that are received and run by a local virtual machine or other suitable middleware executed by control circuitry . In some of such embodiments e.g. those employing MPEG 2 or other digital media encoding schemes the guidance application may be for example encoded and transmitted in an MPEG 2 object carousel with the MPEG audio and video packets of a program.

User television equipment may include a set top box an integrated receiver decoder IRD for handling satellite television a television set a digital storage device a DVD recorder a video cassette recorder VCR a local media server or other user television equipment. One or more of these devices may be integrated into a single device if desired. User computer equipment may include a PC a laptop a tablet a WebTV box a personal computer television PC TV a PC media server a PC media center or other user computer equipment. WEBTV is a trademark owned by Microsoft Corp. Wireless user communications device may include PDAs a mobile telephone a portable video player a portable music player a portable gaming machine or other wireless devices.

A client device utilizing at least some of the system features described above in connection with may not be classified solely as user television equipment user computer equipment or a wireless user communications device . For example user television equipment may like some user computer equipment be Internet enabled allowing for access to Internet content while user computer equipment may like some television equipment include a tuner allowing for access to television programming. The media guidance application may have the same layout on the various different types of client device or may be tailored to the display capabilities of the client device. For example on user computer equipment the guidance application may be provided as a web site accessed by a web browser. In another example the guidance application may be scaled down for wireless user communications devices .

In system there is typically more than one of each type of client device but only one of each is shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. In addition each user may utilize more than one type of client device and also more than one of each type of client device.

In some embodiments a client device e.g. user television equipment user computer equipment wireless user communications device may be referred to as a second screen device. For example a second screen device may supplement content presented on a first client device. The content presented on the second screen device may be any suitable content that supplements the content presented on the first device. In some embodiments the second screen device provides an interface for adjusting settings and display preferences of the first device. In some embodiments the second screen device is configured for interacting with other second screen devices or for interacting with a social network. The second screen device can be located in the same room as the first device a different room from the first device but in the same house or building or in a different building from the first device.

The user may also set various settings to maintain consistent media guidance application settings across in home devices and remote devices. Settings include those described herein as well as channel and program favorites programming preferences that the guidance application utilizes to make programming recommendations display preferences and other desirable guidance settings. For example if a user sets a channel as a favorite on for example the web site www.allrovi.com on their personal computer at their office the same channel would appear as a favorite on the user s in home devices e.g. user television equipment and user computer equipment as well as the user s mobile devices if desired. Therefore changes made on one client device can change the guidance experience on another client device regardless of whether they are the same or a different type of client device. In addition the changes made may be based on settings input by a user as well as user activity monitored by the guidance application.

Although communications paths are not drawn between client devices these devices may communicate directly with each other via communication paths such as those described above in connection with paths and as well other short range point to point communication paths such as USB cables IEEE 1394 cables wireless paths e.g. Bluetooth infrared IEEE 802 11 etc. or other short range communication via wired or wireless paths. BLUETOOTH is a certification mark owned by Bluetooth SIG INC. The client devices may also communicate with each other directly through an indirect path via communications network .

System includes content source and media guidance data source coupled to communications network via communication paths and respectively. Paths and may include any of the communication paths described above in connection with paths and . Communications with the content source and media guidance data source may be exchanged over one or more communications paths but are shown as a single path in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. In addition there may be more than one of each of content source and media guidance data source but only one of each is shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. The different types of each of these sources are discussed below. If desired content source and media guidance data source may be integrated as one source device. Although communications between sources and with client devices and are shown as through communications network in some embodiments sources and may communicate directly with client devices and via communication paths not shown such as those described above in connection with paths and .

Content source may include one or more types of content distribution equipment including a television distribution facility cable system headend satellite distribution facility programming sources e.g. television broadcasters such as NBC ABC HBO etc. intermediate distribution facilities and or servers Internet providers on demand media servers and other content providers. NBC is a trademark owned by the National Broadcasting Company Inc. ABC is a trademark owned by ABC Inc. and HBO is a trademark owned by Home Box Office Inc. Content source may be the originator of content e.g. a television broadcaster a Webcast provider etc. or may not be the originator of content e.g. an on demand content provider an Internet provider of content of broadcast programs for downloading etc. . Content source may include cable sources satellite providers on demand providers Internet providers over the top content providers or other providers of content. Content source may also include a remote media server used to store different types of content including video content selected by a user in a location remote from any of the client devices. Systems and methods for remote storage of content and providing remotely stored content to client devices are discussed in greater detail in connection with Ellis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 761 892 issued Jul. 20 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Media guidance data source may provide media guidance data such as the media guidance data described above. Media guidance application data may be provided to the client devices using any suitable approach. In some embodiments the guidance application may be a stand alone interactive television program guide that receives program guide data via a data feed e.g. a continuous feed or trickle feed . Program schedule data and other guidance data may be provided to the client device on a television channel sideband using an in band digital signal using an out of band digital signal or by any other suitable data transmission technique. Program schedule data and other media guidance data may be provided to client devices on multiple analog or digital television channels.

In some embodiments guidance data from media guidance data source may be provided to users equipment using a client server approach. For example a client device may pull media guidance data from a server or a server may push media guidance data to a client device. In some embodiments a guidance application client residing on the user s equipment may initiate sessions with source to obtain guidance data when needed e.g. when the guidance data is out of date or when the client device receives a request from the user to receive data. Media guidance may be provided to the client device with any suitable frequency e.g. continuously daily a user specified period of time a system specified period of time in response to a request from a client device etc. . Media guidance data source may provide to user equipment devices and the media guidance application itself or software updates for the media guidance application.

Media guidance applications may be for example stand alone applications implemented on client devices. In some embodiments media guidance applications may be client server applications where only the client resides on the client device. For example media guidance applications may be implemented partially as a client application on control circuitry of client device and partially on a remote server as a server application e.g. media guidance data source . The guidance application displays may be generated by the media guidance data source and transmitted to the client devices. The media guidance data source may also transmit data for storage on the client which then generates the guidance application displays based on instructions processed by control circuitry.

Content and or media guidance data delivered to client devices such as user equipment devices and may be over the top OTT content. OTT content delivery allows Internet enabled user devices including any client device described above to receive content that is transferred over the Internet including any content described above. OTT content is delivered via an Internet connection provided by an Internet service provider ISP but a third party distributes the content. The ISP may not be responsible for the viewing abilities copyrights or redistribution of the content and may only transfer IP packets provided by the OTT content provider. Examples of OTT content providers include YOUTUBE NETFLIX and HULU which provide audio and video via IP packets. OTT content providers may additionally or alternatively provide media guidance data described above. In addition to content and or media guidance data providers of OTT content can distribute media guidance applications e.g. web based applications or cloud based applications or the content can be displayed by media guidance applications stored on the client device.

Media guidance data source may make asset cataloging or recommendation applications available to users. Such applications may be downloaded from media guidance data source to a client device or may be accessed remotely by a user. These applications as well as other applications features and tools may be provided to users on a subscription basis or may be selectively downloaded or used for an additional fee. In an embodiment media guidance data source may serve as a repository for media asset data developed by users and or third parties and as a distribution source for this data and related applications.

Media guidance system is intended to illustrate a number of approaches or network configurations by which client devices and sources of content and guidance data may communicate with each other for the purpose of accessing content and providing media guidance. The embodiments described herein may be applied in any one or a subset of these approaches or in a system employing other approaches for delivering content and providing media guidance. The following four approaches provide specific illustrations of the generalized example of .

In one approach client devices may communicate with each other within a home network. Client devices can communicate with each other directly via short range point to point communication schemes described above via indirect paths through a hub or other similar device provided on a home network or via communications network . Each of the multiple individuals in a single home may operate different client devices on the home network. As a result it may be desirable for various media guidance information or settings to be communicated between the different client devices. For example it may be desirable for users to maintain consistent media guidance application settings on different client devices within a home network as described in greater detail in Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 179 360 filed Jul. 11 2005. Different types of client devices in a home network may also communicate with each other to transmit content. For example a user may transmit content from user computer equipment to a portable video player or portable music player.

In a second approach users may have multiple types of client devices by which they access content and obtain media guidance. For example some users may have home networks that are accessed by in home and mobile devices. Users may control in home devices via a media guidance application implemented on a remote device. For example users may access an online media guidance application on a website via a personal computer at their offices or a mobile device such as a PDA or web enabled mobile telephone. The user may set various settings e.g. recordings reminders or other settings on the online guidance application to control the user s in home equipment. The online guide may control the user s equipment directly or by communicating with a media guidance application on the user s in home equipment. Various systems and methods for client devices communicating where the client devices are in locations remote from each other is discussed in for example Ellis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 046 801 issued Oct. 25 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In a third approach users of client devices inside and outside a home can use their media guidance application to communicate directly with content source to access content. Specifically within a home users of user television equipment and user computer equipment may access the media guidance application to navigate among and locate desirable content. Users may also access the media guidance application outside of the home using wireless user communications devices to navigate among and locate desirable content.

In a fourth approach client devices may operate in a cloud computing environment to access cloud services. In a cloud computing environment various types of computing services for content sharing storage or distribution e.g. video sharing sites or social networking sites are provided by a collection of network accessible computing and storage resources referred to as the cloud. For example the cloud can include a collection of server computing devices which may be located centrally or at distributed locations that provide cloud based services to various types of users and devices connected via a network such as the Internet via communications network . These cloud resources may include one or more content sources and one or more media guidance data sources . In addition or in the alternative the remote computing sites may include other client devices such as user television equipment user computer equipment and wireless user communications device . For example the other client devices may provide access to a stored copy of a video or a streamed video. In such embodiments client devices may operate in a peer to peer manner without communicating with a central server.

The cloud provides access to services such as content storage content sharing or social networking services among other examples as well as access to any content described above for client devices. Services can be provided in the cloud through cloud computing service providers or through other providers of online services. For example the cloud based services can include a content storage service a content sharing site a social networking site or other services via which user sourced content is distributed for viewing by others on connected devices. These cloud based services may allow a client device to store content to the cloud and to receive content from the cloud rather than storing content locally and accessing locally stored content.

A user may use various content capture devices such as camcorders digital cameras with video mode audio recorders mobile phones and handheld computing devices to record content. The user can upload content to a content storage service on the cloud either directly for example from user computer equipment or wireless user communications device having content capture feature. Alternatively the user can first transfer the content to a client device such as user computer equipment . The client device storing the content uploads the content to the cloud using a data transmission service on communications network . In some embodiments the client device itself is a cloud resource and other client devices can access the content directly from the client device on which the user stored the content.

Cloud resources may be accessed by a client device using for example a web browser a media guidance application a desktop application a mobile application and or any combination of access applications or the same. The client device may be a cloud client that relies on cloud computing for application delivery or the client device may have some functionality without access to cloud resources. For example some applications running on the client device may be cloud applications i.e. applications delivered as a service over the Internet while other applications may be stored and run on the client device. In some embodiments a client device may receive content from multiple cloud resources simultaneously. For example a client device can stream audio from one cloud resource while downloading content from a second cloud resource. Or a client device can download content from multiple cloud resources for more efficient downloading. In some embodiments client devices can use cloud resources for processing operations such as the processing operations performed by processing circuitry described in relation to .

It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction with the various illustrative embodiments the forgoing description is intended to illustrate and not limit the scope of the invention. While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems components and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The intention is not to be limited to the details given herein or implemented in sub combinations with one or more other features described herein. For example a variety of systems and methods may be implemented based on the disclosure and still fall within the scope of the invention. Also the various features described or illustrated above may be combined or integrated in other systems or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the scope of the information disclosed herein. Certain particular aspects advantages and modifications are within the scope of the following claims. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety and made part of this application.

