---

title: Method and apparatus for conditional provisioning of position-related information
abstract: An approach is provided for providing aggregated position-related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. An invocation platform determines one or more applications, one or more services, or a combination thereof that provide position-related information. The invocation platform further determines one or more invocation conditions associated with the position-related information, the one or more applications, the one or more services, or a combination thereof. The invocation platform also causes, at least in part, a presentation of at least one user interface that aggregates the position-related information from the one or more applications, the one or more services, or a combination thereof based, at least in part, on the one or more invocation conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756002&OS=08756002&RS=08756002
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08756002
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120417
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One service includes providing a user s position and information regarding the position in a map based user interface. Such a service may be used for providing directions between two locations or information regarding points of interest surrounding the current position of the user. Other services exist that similarly provide position related information. Such a service may provide information to parents regarding the positions of their children on a map based user interface. Applications and services related to providing position based information usually have their own separate user interfaces that a user must manually navigate to in order to see the position based information. This adds a level of inconvenience to users that want to use multiple applications and or services. Even further not all of the applications and services are compatible with the wide range of user devices that may display the user based information. Thus there are no integrated services available that are capable of showing multiple maps associated with different applications. Further the applications and services do not always present user position related information. Rather there could be multiple map applications that provide other map related services pertaining to locations other than current user location. Currently such frameworks do not exist that allow multiple map applications related to a user to be dynamically invoked. Therefore device manufacturers and service providers face significant technical challenges in providing a framework capable of integrating map based applications and services within a single user interface that adapts to dynamic conditions associated with the availability of the position related information.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof that provide position related information. The method also comprises determining one or more invocation conditions associated with the position related information the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof. The method further comprises causing at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface that aggregates the position related information from the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more invocation conditions.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof that provide position related information. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more invocation conditions associated with the position related information the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to present at least one user interface that aggregates the position related information from the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more invocation conditions.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof that provide position related information. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more invocation conditions associated with the position related information the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to present at least one user interface that aggregates the position related information from the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more invocation conditions.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof that provide position related information. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more invocation conditions associated with the position related information the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface that aggregates the position related information from the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more invocation conditions.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of the method claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Further user interfaces associated with the applications and services are active regardless of whether there is actually position related information being generated by the applications and service. For example where the tracking device used to track the location of a child is turned off e.g. not generating position related information the user interface associated with the service may still display a map but the map does not include any position related information. Thus a user may potentially navigate to the user interface only to see that no position related information is currently presented at the user interface. Thus there also is no framework that allows for the automatic presentation of the position related information corresponding to the applications and or services based on certain conditions such that for example the user does not need to manually start or navigate to a particular application and or service at a device.

To address these problems a system of introduces a framework capable of integrating applications and or services that provide position related information within a single user interface associated with for example a single device based on dynamic invocation conditions. The system introduces the capability to determine applications services or combinations thereof that provide position related information. The system allows for the integration of any type of application or service thus reducing the need for different devices for example to provide the different position related information. The system further determines invocation conditions associated with the position related information the applications the services or a combination thereof that control the presentation of position related information at a user interface. The invocation conditions may define certain conditions based on for example context information that are associated with the invocation of certain applications services or presentations of information at a device. By way of example and as discussed in detail below an invocation condition may be a GPS transmitter turning on that allows for the tracking of a GPS device. The system also allows for the presentation of a user interface that aggregates position related information from the applications services or combinations thereof based on the invocation conditions. The aggregation of the position related information allows for the presentation of all position related information from the applications and the services at a single user interface associated with for example a single device automatically on the basis of the satisfaction of the invocation conditions. Thus such a framework allows for the user to focus more on understanding the position related information provides position related information more efficiently and lets the user also multi task without having to expend additional effort by for example manually switching between applications services and or devices.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE having connectivity to an invocation platform via a communication network . Although multiple UE are illustrated in one embodiment the system may have only one UE . The UE may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device mobile communication device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

The UE may include one or more applications collectively referred to as applications . The applications may be any type of application such as one or more navigation applications personal organizer applications calendar applications e mail applications gaming applications reminder applications Internet browser applications etc. The applications may provide position related information at the UE . By way of example a navigation application may provide position related information regarding the current position of a user of a UE . The navigation application may also provide position related information to a user regarding walking and or driving directions between two geographical locations. The navigation application may provide the information associated with a map such that the user can see their current position and or driving directions in relation to their surrounding environment. In one embodiment one of the applications may be associated with the invocation platform such as a map client. Thus the map client also referred to as an invocation platform application may interface with the invocation platform to present the aggregated position related information at a user interface associated with a device.

In one embodiment one or more of the applications may interface with one or more services collectively referred to as services provided by a services platform . The services may provide position related information associated with one or more services provided by the services platform . The services may include for example one or more social networking services one or more tracking services one or more navigation services one or more reminder services one or more calendar based services one or more advertisement services etc. By way of example a social networking service may provide information regarding the locations of other users e.g. friends buddies etc. on a map so that a user may see where his or her friends are in relation to the map. The social networking service may interface with the invocation platform to provide the information aggregated at the UE . Other services may have similar relationships with the invocation platform to provide aggregated position related information to the UE . By way of another example an advertisement service may provide one or more advertisements correlated to geographical locations. The advertisements correlated to the geographical locations may represent position related information that may be aggregated and presented at a user interface.

The UE may also include storages collectively referred to storage . The storage may store information at the UE regarding any one or more of the applications and or the services . In one embodiment the storage may store map information including one or more maps that are used to provide the presentation of the position related information in relation to maps at the UE . In such an embodiment for example the storage may include all the map information required to display the position related information rather than the UE having to receive the map information from another source over the communication network . In such an embodiment the resources of the UE are not unnecessarily consumed by receiving the map information. The invocation platform application may use one or more maps stored in the storage for presenting the position related information.

The UE may also include or be associated with e.g. in communication with one or more sensors collectively referred to as sensors . The sensors may collect context information regarding the UE and or the users of the UE . By way of example the sensors may include a light sensor a pressure sensor a humidity sensor one or more location position sensors etc. The context information collected by the sensors may be processed by the invocation platform to determine whether one or more invocation conditions are satisfied which may then be correlated to determining to present corresponding position related information.

The system may further include one or more user devices UD collectively referred to as UD . One kind of UD may be a location transmitting device such as a device that transmits its location based on one or more location determining services e.g. GPS . For example a location transmitting device may include a GPS enabled wrist watch that may transmit its location to a service and or application . Another location transmitting device may include a probe or tracking device whose only function is to transmit the location to a service and or application . Another kind of UD may be a device that presents map related information that is not necessarily a UE . For example a car may include a navigation system. The navigation system includes a display that presents a user interface that displays map information. The navigation system may determine the location of the car and present the location on the display. Although the navigation system may not technically qualify as a UE the navigation system can similarly communicate over the communication network to other UD UE the invocation platform and the services at the services platform to present aggregated position related information at a user interface.

The system may also include one or more content providers collectively referred to as content providers that provide content to the UE the invocation platform the services and or the UD . The content may be any type of content such as multimedia content e.g. images videos audio etc. map based content e.g. one or more maps etc. social networking content e.g. information posted on social networking websites etc. and the like. In one embodiment although the storage on the UE may include the map information for presenting maps at user interfaces of the UE the content providers may provide the initial map information or may provide updates to the information to accommodate the position related information that is supplied by one or more applications and or services.

The invocation platform of the system provides the ability for the system to aggregate position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. The invocation platform effectively provides a container application at the UE and or UD that allows a user to view aggregated position related information provided by different applications and or services. The invocation platform allows for switching between views of different position related information using user interface features. In one embodiment the user interface features may include one or more tabs one or more icons or a combination thereof. However multiple different user interface switching paradigms may be used by the invocation platform for switching between position related information associated with the applications and or services.

The invocation platform may dynamically present the position related information at a user interface that aggregates the position related information from one or more applications and or one or more services based on one or more invocation conditions. Thus although a user may be associated with ten or more applications and or services that have been registered with the invocation platform the position related information associated with the applications and or services is presented based on the invocation conditions which for example may be considered as being when the applications or services are active. Accordingly the users do not have to open third party applications or services to access the position related information. Rather the position related information is automatically and dynamically presented at a user interface when the applications and or services become active or in one embodiment when the position related information becomes active. In a sense the invocation platform allows for the presentation of position related information to act as a kind of notification to the user in addition to presenting the substance of the position related information.

By way of example user A may want to monitor the position of person B such as where user A is the parent of person B. Person B may be wearing a GPS enabled watch that starts transmitting location data once the GPS in the watch is activated e.g. turned on . Once the GPS in the watch is activated the invocation platform may determine the presence of position related information associated with the watch. Thus in one embodiment an invocation condition may be based on whether the location of the watch is activated. Upon the location technology within the watch being activated the invocation condition is satisfied and the invocation platform causes the presentation of the position related information e.g. the location data at a user interface associated with UE and or a UD . From then the movement of person B may be monitored based on the user interface associated with the UE and or the UD .

In one embodiment a user may have multiple UE and or UD associated with the invocation platform . The devices may have the same priority or may have different priority rankings By way of example a UE may have a higher priority than a UD . If both devices attempt to access the invocation platform through the invocation platform application the invocation platform may only interface with the UE . However if the UE stops accessing the invocation platform e.g. turns off the invocation platform may begin interfacing with the lower priority UD . The invocation platform may provide an automatic migration of the position related information and user interface from the UE to the UD once the UE turns off and the UD becomes the highest ranked device.

By way of example user A may have a UE and a UD registered with the invocation platform . The UD may be a navigation system within an automobile and may have a higher rank than the UE based on for example the need for the user to pay attention to driving and the navigation device associated with driving and not the UE . Thus while the invocation platform is presented position related information at a user interface of the UE if the user starts the car and the navigation system in the car the invocation platform may detect the navigation system turning on and automatically migrate the presentation of the position related information at the UE to the navigation system of the car. In one embodiment the position related information associated with person B may be presented on the same map as the map used for the navigation presented by the navigation system. In one embodiment the invocation platform may present for example tabs to allow user A to switch between the map associated with the navigation presented by the navigation system and a map associated with the position information of person B. Thus although different maps may be used the same user interface of the navigation system presents the information. If at the time user A starts the car the watch for person B is not activated then there is no additional position related information associated with the watch for the invocation platform to present and the user interface associated with the navigation system will not include the additional tab associated with the position of the watch.

Based on the system a user may register multiple third party applications and or services that provide position related information that are associated with the user. A user may choose from one or more compatible applications and or services that may be registered with the invocation platform . In one embodiment compatible may mean that the applications and or services are compatible with one or more protocols supported by the invocation platform including authentication and security where applicable. When registering an application and or service the user may provide the following exemplary information authentication information devices that may provide position related information one or more applications and or services that provide invocation criterion permission to provide device profile and context information and type of context information priority order associated with the devices where multiple devices are registered and whether multiple devices may concurrently receive the position related information. In general all communications between applications and or services that provide position related information to the UE and or the UD will occur through the invocation platform . Under this approach the invocation platform may provide a better experience and have better control over the applications and or services. However in one embodiment the invocation platform may direct communication directly between the applications and or services and the UE and or UD .

In one embodiment for each application and or service a user provides the user may also provide authentication information. The invocation platform may then provide the authentication information to the application and or service to connect to the application and or service and retrieve the information associated with the user e.g. position related information . Once the information is obtained the invocation platform may present the aggregated information at a user interface associated with the user rather than the applications and or services presenting the information at separate user interfaces. The authentication information may consist of a login name and password an authentication token and the like. By providing the authentication information the user provides the invocation platform permission to contact the applications and or services and gather application information and or service information associated with the user for providing position related information. The authentication information protects the privacy of the user because the invocation platform may access only applications and or services that the user provides authentication information for as well as protect the invocation platform from other applications and or services that are not registered with the invocation platform by preventing direct access to the invocation platform and or the UE .

In one embodiment the position related information may be associated with a third party e.g. not the user using the invocation platform . In such an embodiment the user may provide the invocation platform with authentication information or instructions to acquire authentication information for the invocation platform to gain permission to obtain the position related information regarding the third party. The invocation platform may contact the third party to obtain the authentication information required to track the position of the third party. The request for authentication information may be executed using one or more of the services e.g. through the use of a social networking service by sending a message requesting the authentication information from the third party . Thus authentication information may be provided associated with the user of the invocation platform and associated with third party users that the user wishes to track. Authentication information may also be used to authenticate the user associated with the invocation platform when requesting authentication information from a third party to for example track the third party.

The application information and or service information may include for example location data map data e.g. range of map resolution of map etc. map display information overlay display information if applicable information regarding the various levels of map information user information service conditions and or changes to service conditions service configuration information user interface information e.g. in frame or default information full application user interface information e.g. user interface skin information if supported etc. With respect to map resolutions for example some map resolutions may not be available to third party applications and or services because of for instance business contractual reasons. The invocation platform will have this information to properly display the position related information on a user interface.

In one embodiment the invocation platform may send information to the applications and or services regarding details of the user the UE the UD and or the map client at the UE and or UD e.g. the invocation platform application . This information may include for example a version of the map client URL or namespace of map client version whether skins are supported whether third party user interface is possible whether in frame user interface is possible user interface paradigm employed by map client basic set of expected data e.g. central location rage of map resolution of map etc. layer data support for map client and format supported data format supported frame size for map client e.g. in both portrait and landscape modes and whether live tiles are supported by client for the home screen along with update time for live tiles. The live tiles may present thumbnail information for the applications and or services if supported. In one embodiment each application may be provided a time slot for showing information at a live tile. In one embodiment separate tiles may become active on a live home screen of the UE and or UD if permission is granted by the user.

The invocation conditions may differ between applications and or services. In one embodiment applications and or services registered with the invocation platform may have form fields that are filled in by the user associated with the invocation condition. For example for the situation of the watch example above a service associated with the watch may have the invocation condition provided by the user as Device ON. Accordingly whenever the watch is turned on the invocation condition is satisfied and position related information may be transmitted by the invocation platform to the device associated with user A.

In one embodiment invocation conditions may be associated with the application and or service side such as the above watch example or may be associated with the user side e.g. user A . Context information may be processed to determine whether one or more invocation conditions are satisfied with a user A. For instance if a user proceeds from his home to his car the context information may indicate that the user is now in his car. This could be an invocation condition associated with a particular application and or service or the presentation of position related information associated with an application and or service. As discussed above this could also be a general invocation condition to switch from presenting the position related information at a UE to instead at a UD e.g. car navigation system . The context information may also be tied to one or more applications executed at the UE . For example a personal organizer application may include a reminder to user A to check on whether user A s parent persons C and D are going to the doctor s office during a certain day and time. Upon the day and time occurring the day and time satisfying the day and time of the reminder may activate the invocation platform to begin presenting position related information associated with persons C and D at a user interface of a UE . Thus the map client will dynamically become active corresponding to the date and time of the reminder and user A can verify that persons C and D are actually at the doctor s office during the given time period.

Communications between the UE the UD the invocation platform the applications and or services may occur through both synchronous and asynchronous signaling and any communication protocol capable of data transmission control and signaling may be used. Some example may include Sessions Initiated Protocol SIP Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP of SIP Representational State Transfer RESTful services Extensible Markup Language XML payloads remote invocation Remote Method Invocation RMI Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA web services etc.

In one embodiment the invocation platform application may receive context information from the invocation platform one or more sensors and or one or more applications at the UE and the invocation platform application may monitor the context information for changes. If the changes satisfy one or more invocation conditions the map client e.g. invocation platform application may signal the invocation platform that the invocation conditions are satisfied and the invocation platform will interface with the appropriate application or service to retrieve the position related information to transmit to the UE . However in one embodiment the invocation platform may directly determine the context information and monitor the context information for changes that satisfy invocation conditions. Further in one embodiment the applications and or services may indicate to the invocation platform that certain invocation conditions have been met. By way of example where the watch in the above example turns on the service that is associated with provisioning position related information associated with the watch may interface with the invocation platform to indicate that the invocation condition of the watch turning on is satisfied and also provide the position related information.

In one embodiment a service may provide for sharing information between users. The information may consist of multimedia files e.g. audio videos images etc. . An invocation condition may be associated with whether there are multimedia files ready to be shared with a user. Further in one embodiment the service may provide security measures such that a user may only view the files if the user is at a designated location. In such an example the invocation condition may be satisfied when there are multimedia files ready to be shared. The position related information that may be presented to the user may be information associated with where the user must be located to be able to view the multimedia files. A service may also provide advertisement information. The position related information may correspond to the locations associated with the advertisements. The invocation conditions may be associated with whether there are currently advertisements to be presented to a user.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth near field communication NFC Internet Protocol IP data casting digital radio television broadcasting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UE the invocation platform the services platform the content providers and the UD communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The application service module determines the applications and or services that are associated with position related information that is aggregated at a user interface by the invocation platform . In one embodiment one or more applications and or services may be already registered at the invocation platform . In this embodiment a user may select one or more of the applications and or services associated with one or more user interfaces and or devices so that aggregated position related information is presented at a user interface associated with the devices. In such an embodiment the invocation platform may already have determined the information that is transmitted to the applications and or services to provide the position related information at a UE and or UD . In such an embodiment the invocation platform may already have determined invocation conditions associated with the applications and or services for determining when to present position related information at the UE and or the UD . However in one embodiment a user may further define or control the invocation conditions.

In one embodiment a user may register one or more applications and or services with the invocation platform through the application service module . In such an embodiment the user may define the information that is requested by the applications and or services and the information that is requested by the invocation platform as well as any authentication information if applicable to provide the position related information at a UE and or UD . The user may also define the invocation conditions associated with the applications and or services to automatically present the position related information at the UE and or UD .

In one embodiment the user may rank the applications and or services according to a priority ranking The application service module may determine the ranking based on one or more inputs by the user. The application service module may then control what applications and or services provide position related information at the user interface of the device based on the priority ranking By way of example an application may provide position related information according to navigation information. The application may have a priority ranking of . A service may provide position related information associated with a tracking probe. The service may have a priority ranking of which is higher than the priority ranking of the application. Accordingly the invocation platform may provide position related information associated with the service over the application in situations where the user requests a prioritized presentation of the position related information. In one embodiment for example where an invocation condition associated with the service becomes satisfied e.g. when the tracking probe turns on the invocation platform may automatically change the presentation of the user interface to include the position related information of the service rather than the position related information of the application based on the priority ranking and the service initially becoming ctive. By way of example the user may place more importance on receiving the position related information of the service rather than the position related information of the application.

The device module determines one or more devices that may be associated with the presentation of position related information. The user may register one or more devices with the invocation platform based on the device module . In one embodiment the device module includes one or more previously registered devices or device types that may be selected by a user to associate with the user. In one embodiment the user may enter information about a device and register the device with the device module . The user may register a device that is compatible with the device module and the invocation platform . Compatibility may be based on for example whether the device is compatible with one or more protocols that the invocation platform is compatible with such as SIP SOAP over SIP RESTful services XML payloads remote invocations RMI CORBA web services etc.

In one embodiment the device module may rank one or more devices associated with a user based on a priority ranking A user may define a priority ranking associated with the devices such that the invocation platform may cause a presentation of a user interface at a specific one of the devices over a user interface of the other devices. For example a user may have a mobile phone e.g. a UE and a car navigation system e.g. UD registered with the invocation platform and may define the mobile phone as having a lower priority than the car navigation system. Thus when the device module determines that both the mobile phone and the car navigation system are active the device module may determine to present at the user interface of the car navigation device rather than the mobile phone based on the priority ranking of the car navigation device over the mobile phone.

The invocation module determines one or more invocation conditions associated with position related information one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof and determines whether the one or more invocation conditions are satisfied. In one embodiment the invocation module may collect and or receive context information associated with one or more UE one or more UD one or more users of the UE one or more users of the UD or a combination thereof to determine whether the invocation conditions are satisfied. The invocation module may also collect and or receive context information from one or more sensors associated with the one or more UE . The context information may be any type of information based on context such as position information time information activity information etc. In one embodiment the invocation module may also determine behavior information preference information and the like regarding a user and use this information to determine whether one or more invocation conditions are satisfied. By way of example the context information may be associated with the location of a user such as at work at home in a car in a bus etc. An invocation condition may be satisfied with the user at one of the listed locations. Additionally an invocation condition may be satisfied based on context information indicating a behavior and or a preference of a user being satisfied.

The invocation module may also process application information. The application information may include one or more instructions associated with providing position related information. By way of example a reminder application may include one or more reminders to track location based objects. The reminder application may then transmit application information to the invocation module indicating that an invocation condition e.g. time to track objects is satisfied. The application information may be associated with one or more applications at the UE and therefore come from the user side of the system .

The invocation module may also process service information. The service information may include one or more instructions associated with providing position related information to a user. By way of example a service may be associated with a location tracking probe. When the service determines that the location tracking probe is activated the service may provide service information to the invocation module indicating that an invocation condition e.g. that the tracking probe is turned on is satisfied. The service information may be associated with one or more services at the services platform and therefore come from a third party side of the system . Accordingly the invocation module processes the context information the application information and the service information to determine whether the one or more invocation conditions are satisfied.

The presentation module causes a presentation at a user interface of a device of the aggregated position related information from the one or more applications and or services. The presentation module may provide one or more indicators representing the one or more applications or services at the user interface to allow a user to switch between the position related information at the user interface. The presentation module may also present the position related information as different layers presented on a map to allow for presenting any one or more of the layers at a single time. The presentation module may presented the user interface illustrated in as discussed below.

The position related information may be any type of information that is associated with positional or location data. The position related information may include for example tracking information associated with a device notification information associated with a specific location where information is locally available or where information is accessible when the user is at the location gaming information such as a treasure hunt information with the location data represented by clues treasure and other members locations and the like. However the position related information is not limited to these above examples. The position related information can be any type of information that can be correlated to location or positional information.

In step the invocation platform determines one or more invocation conditions associated with the position related information the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof. The invocation conditions may be associated with the applications and services that were determined in step . For the applications and services determined in step the invocation platform determines the associated invocation conditions that are associated with when the invocation platform causes a presentation of the position related information. If the user selects the applications and services from a list or enters information regarding the applications and services the information regarding the applications and services will also include information regarding the invocation conditions.

By way of example the invocation conditions may include whether a device e.g. tracking probe GPS enabled watch etc. is activated whether a UD e.g. car navigation system is activated whether a reminder appointment or other function related to an application is activated. For instance an invocation condition may be associated with a reminder in a calendar application the reminder pertaining to a doctor s appointment associated with individuals related to the user of the device. The invocation condition may also be associated with a GPS watch turning on and providing position related information to the invocation platform to be presented to a UE or a UD .

In step the invocation platform causes at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface that aggregates the position related information from the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more invocation conditions. The at least one user interface may be a user interface associated with a UE or a UD and specifically may be associated with the map client e.g. the invocation platform application running at the UE and or UD . Thus the invocation platform may cause a single user interface at the UE or the UD to present aggregated position related information from a combination of applications and services such that the user can see the position related information from the combination of applications and services without having to switch between user interfaces or various applications. The position related information is also presented based on the invocation conditions determined above in step such that the information is presented dynamically and automatically based on the invocation conditions. This allows the user to focus on a primary task while still being able to view the position related information aggregated from across multiple different applications and services. Further the user is not required to determine whether position related information is available from the applications and or services and to manually switch to the user interfaces associated with the applications and services.

The invocation platform may also use one or more invocation conditions to determine to remove the position related information associated with the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof from the user interface. By way of example there may be an invocation condition associated with removing the presentation of position related information associated with an application that is satisfied when for instance the application is closed. In the example associated with a GPS enabled watch an invocation condition associated with removing the presentation of position related information from the user interface may occur when the watch is turned off or when the tracking ability associated with the watch is turned off. When an application is associated with position related information an invocation condition associated with removing the presentation of the position related information may occur based on a condition being satisfied such as the expiration of a period of time. For example where a reminder was set to track position related information for a period of time the beginning of the period of time may be associated with an invocation condition to begin presenting the position related information and the end of the period of time may be associated with an invocation condition to end presenting the position related information. Accordingly the invocation platform may dynamically and automatically present and remove aggregated position related information from across many different applications and or services at a user interface based on the invocation conditions.

Further the application information may cover a wide variety of information. The application information may be associated with one or more functions of one or more applications executed at the UE . For instance an application may be a game that provides position related information. An application also may be a calendar application or a reminder application that reminds a user of an activity or even that is associated with position related information.

The service information also may cover a wide variety of information. In one embodiment the service information may include context information that a UE and or a UD may be unable to determine. The service information may also be associated with one or more services that provide position related information. Such a service may include a navigation service that provides navigational information to a UE and or a UD . A service may also include a tracking service that relays information regarding the position of a tracking probe to the invocation platform .

The invocation platform processes the context information the application information and the service information to determine whether the invocation conditions are satisfied. The invocation conditions may be satisfied according to specific context information or specific conditions associated with the application information and or service information. For example certain context information regarding locations may indicate that an invocation condition is satisfied such as if a user is at a certain condition during a certain time of day etc. Certain application information regarding one or more functions may indicate that an invocation condition is satisfied such as whether one or more functions are executed associated with the application. Certain service information regarding one or more functions of a service may indicate that an invocation condition is satisfied such as if a tracking device is activated.

In step the invocation platform causes at least in part a presentation of at least one map at the at least one user interface. The at least one map may be a general map that includes information regarding for example transportation information topology information climate information etc. The map may be adjustable to be different sizes and have different resolutions. The map may be thought of as a shell map or a container map that allows for the presentation of additional position related information from the applications and or services.

In step the invocation platform causes at least in part a modification of the at least one map based at least in part on the position related information. The modification may include combining the information associated with the map with the position related information associated with the one or more applications and or services that are actively providing position related information based on the satisfaction of the invocation conditions. In one embodiment the modification may include the overlay of various layers of information pertaining to the position related information from one or more applications and or services. The modification may also include the adjustment of the map to center on a different location or have a different resolution or illustrated range. The modification may also include the illustration of various graphics on the map associated with points of interests locations associated with available information e.g. where information is available if the user is at a specific location and the like. The modification of the map allows for the presentation of the position related information of multiple applications and services at a single user interface rather than requiring a user to switch between multiple user interfaces. Having the modification based on the satisfaction of the invocation conditions also allows the invocation platform to dynamically and automatically modify the map to present the position related information without requiring input from the user.

In step the invocation platform determines a priority ranking of the one or more devices one or more user interfaces associated with the one or more devices or a combination thereof. The priority ranking may have been established by the user at the time the user first registered the devices with the invocation platform . In one embodiment the invocation platform may have one or more default priority rankings For example mobile devices may be ranked higher than traditionally stationary devices e.g. terminals desktops etc. . In one embodiment the priority ranking may be context dependent. Based on certain context information device A may have a higher ranking than device B. Based on different context information device A may have a lower ranking than device B. By way of example a desktop may have a higher ranking than a mobile device when the context information of a user indicates that the user is in the position of the desktop e.g. at home at the office etc. . However where the context information indicates that the user is traveling or is away from the position of the desktop the desktop may have a lower priority ranking than the mobile device because the user is not able to use the desktop.

In step the invocation platform causes at least in part a presentation of the position related information at the at least one or more user interfaces based at least in part on the priority ranking of the one or more devices the one or more user interfaces of the devices or a combination thereof. Accordingly the invocation platform may automatically determine to migrate the presentation of the aggregated position related information to one or more devices and or user interfaces of the devices based on the priority ranking The invocation platform may migrate the position related information based on one or more devices having a higher priority than currently used devices. By way of example a user may be associated with two devices a mobile phone and a desktop. The user may have defined the desktop as having a higher priority than the mobile phone to for example save resources of the mobile phone when the user is able to use the desktop. Thus when the invocation platform detects the desktop is on the invocation platform may migrate the presentation of the position related information to the desktop from the mobile phone. Accordingly the invocation platform may dynamically provide position related information at a user interface of a device and may also dynamically change the device associated with the presentation of the position related information as suited for the user of the devices.

In step the invocation platform causes at least in part an association of the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof with the one or more invocation conditions. Where the applications and services were previously registered with the invocation platform but not registered or associated with a particular user the invocation conditions may have already been associated with the applications and services. Where the applications and services were not previously registered with the invocation platform the user may assign the invocation conditions to the applications and or services when the user registers the applications and or services. By way of example for applications that are associated with tracking probes e.g. GPS enabled watch the user may assign an invocation condition as when the tracking probes turns on starts emitting location information or a combination thereof. For one or more other applications the user may assign any type of information as invocation conditions such as when an application is executed when a reminder occurs associated with an application when an alert occurs associated with an application etc. By the user assigning the invocation conditions for the applications and services the invocation platform may associate the invocation conditions with the applications and or services.

In step the invocation platform determines a priority ranking of the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof and determines the presentation of the position related information based at least in part on the priority ranking. In one embodiment the invocation platform will present at a user interface an aggregation of the position related information from one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof. Thus a priority ranking of the applications and or services is not necessary. However in one embodiment the invocation platform may present only certain position related information from applications and or services based on a priority ranking where the position related information is based on applications and or services having a higher rank than other applications and or services. For instance position related information from two different applications may vary in the location of the information with respect to the map such that the position related information cannot be displayed at the same time at a specified resolution e.g. the centers of the position related information are too far apart. Thus the invocation platform may determine what position related information to present at the user interface based on the priority ranking of the applications. If application X has a higher priority ranking than application Y the invocation platform will present the position related information associated with application X. However the invocation platform will provide one or more indicators e.g. tabs icons etc. that will allow a user to switch to the position related information associated with application Y within the same user interface as the presentation associated with application X as desired.

The application and services represented by the tabs may have a priority ranking such that the position related information associated with the application and services is presented according to the ranking In one embodiment the marker may be darkened and the tab may be in the foreground of the other tabs based on the service associated with the tab having the highest priority among the application and services. However in one embodiment the tab may be in the foreground simply because a user associated with the user interface has selected the tab

The markers may be associated with different layers that are overlaid over the map . Thus in one embodiment when the corresponding tab is selected for the markers only the layer associated with the selected marker e.g. or may be overlaid on the map at a time. Thus rather than darkening the marker with respect to the other markers and the marker may be the only marker overlaid on the map .

Thus based on the foregoing the invocation platform allows for the presentation of the aggregated position related information from the application and services associated with tabs at a single user interface rather than requiring the user to navigate to different user interfaces for each different application or service that provides position related information. Further the markers may dynamically and automatically appear within the user interface as the invocation conditions associated with the applications and or services associated with the markers are satisfied. By way of example prior to the GPS enabled watch associated with the marker turning on the marker and the tab are not presented at the user interface . However as the GPS enabled watch is turned on the invocation platform may determine that an invocation condition is satisfied and subsequently illustrate the marker and the tab on the user interface without requiring any action on the part of the user. When the GPS enabled watch is turned off the invocation condition is no longer satisfied and the invocation platform will cause the removal of the marker and the tab because the position related information is no longer being provided by the corresponding service.

The processes described herein for providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing aggregated position related information at a user interface of the UE based on invocation conditions.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CDRW Digital Versatile Disc DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a Random Access Memory RAM a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM a flash Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory FLASH EPROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide aggregated position related information at a user interface based on invocation conditions. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

