---

title: Method and system for managing power of a mobile device
abstract: An approach for conserving power of a mobile device based on its pattern of use with respect to one or more tasks is described. An intelligent power source manager collects consumption information relating to a power source of a mobile device for execution of one or more tasks. A pattern of use with respect to the one or more tasks based on the collected consumption information is then determined. The intelligent power source manager then selects an action to conserve usage of the power source, according to the pattern of use, in response to subsequent execution of the one or more tasks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700931&OS=08700931&RS=08700931
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08700931
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
Many smartphones tablet computers laptops and other mobile devices feature utilities and associated applications for performing a myriad of tasks that consume significant power. By way of example certain applications are designed to continuously access content from a network source such as a location based service a data feed a media content server or the like. In order to maintain up to date content or provide real time functionality these applications are required to continuously look for updates or perform content searches. Such updates require frequent use of radio circuitry and thus are expensive in terms of power consumption. Also these devices routinely execute multiple applications and processes. Multi tasking taxes the device s processor s and correspondingly increases power usage. Consequently power management presents a tremendous challenge particularly when battery life can be a real market differentiator.

An apparatus method and software for conserving power of a mobile device based on its pattern of use with respect to one or more tasks of the mobile device is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As mentioned user devices feature different applications utilities and device mechanisms for performing a variety of tasks but are demanding with respect to power consumption. For example some user devices feature applications that are configured to access a location based service via a communication network. The user can submit a request to identify their current location receive directions identify points of interest related to their present location and other on demand information in real time. Typically the routing application features a network interface client that continually exchanges data with the location based service e.g. global positioning system GPS to facilitate the presentment of up to date routing information. This persistent interaction between the device and the service is vital to generating and preserving the real time experience of the user. The described location based application can further cost in terms of power if such application is utilized by other applications e.g. on line gaming applications etc. .

Moreover many user devices and associated applications also employ the use of short range communication technology to facilitate the exchange of data with other nearby devices and services. A Bluetooth enabled headset for example may interact with a smartphone or other user device to establish a pairing connection. Once the pairing connection is established the user can use the headset to receive and transmit data such as to facilitate phone calls provide input commands to the user device etc. To maintain an active connection between the devices however a communication client and or calling application of the device must constantly exchange pairing information with the mobile device e.g. persistent handshake refreshing . Once again this requires the mobile device to maintain an active connection.

Consequently tasks requiring the continual accessing updating and exchange of data also result in greater use of the power source e.g. battery of the mobile device. To conserve power users can manually disable the various tasks. However this can be a tedious inconvenient undertaking given the frequency of execution of such tasks. Alternatively the user can activate an Airplane Mode of operation to disable all wireless tasks. Under this approach however the user has no way of selecting specific wireless tasks to maintain based on their usage needs e.g. enable Bluetooth while disabling a location based service .

Unfortunately there is currently no means of automatically regulating and or coordinating the execution of tasks based on for instance their patterns of consumption of the power source at the device. Still further users are limited in their ability to select from multiple different modes of operation for conserving usage of the power source.

To address this issue system presents an intelligent power source manager that is configured to interact with the user device e.g. mobile device for automatically initiating one or more conservation actions. In certain embodiments the conservation actions are initiated based on a determined current charge level of a power source of the mobile device i.e. an internal battery. When it is determined the power source is depleted to a predetermined charge level e.g. 20 charged one or more conservation actions may be recommended for activation or automatically initiated by the intelligent power source manager . It is noted the conservation actions are performed in lieu of and or in conjunction with a charge cycle of the user device e.g. a period of charging of the device the actions enabling maximum preservation of and usage of available charge of a power source of the user device .

In certain embodiments conservation actions are performed based on the analysis of consumption information relating to a power source of a user device during execution of one or more tasks. The conservation actions of the manager may include in certain instances performing tasks at a scheduled time or delaying execution of the tasks. For example the task of retrieving updated content from a data feed service may be delayed until the power source of the device is determined to be charged to a predetermined threshold. By delaying this task further consumption of the power source is minimized rather than exacerbated due to persistent connectivity with the service . Alternatively the task of accessing the service is deliberately scheduled to occur at a typical time of charging of the user device via an external power source. By way of this approach the task is reserved for execution at a time of least drainage of the power source.

Another conservation action performed by the manager may include the ending or disabling of various tasks. For example the task of retrieving global positioning data from a location based service may be disabled based on user selection of a task specific mode of operation of the device e.g. a Music Video Only Mode . By disabling the task further attempts to retrieve and process location information are prevented without the user having to jeopardize enjoyment of the media e.g. music and video related content. As another example an active connection between the device and an exchange server may be ended abruptly or immediately following completion of an exchange in response to a decrease in battery consumption to a predetermined threshold. The manager is configured to operate in connection with the user device i.e. as an intermediary service component or platform for generating one or more control signals to enable execution of conservation actions relative to a given task.

In certain embodiments the manager initiates the one or more conservation actions based on analysis of historical consumption information pertaining to the use of the power source of the user device . By way of example the analysis is performed by the manager by processing the consumption information to derive a set of analytic results . The analytic results correspond to one or more trends patterns correlations and other intelligence for indicating how a user typically employs the user device various applications of the device the battery accesses one or more services via a service provider network or a combination thereof. It is noted therefore that the manager accesses the analytic results which is based on historical data for use in adapting current task executions at the user device .

In one embodiment the historical consumption information is gathered over a period of time specified by the user. Alternatively the information is gathered over a default period of time e.g. two weeks . For the purpose of illustration the period of time is referred to as a training period and includes the gathering of the following types of consumption information as shown in Table 1 below 

Additional types of consumption information may be gathered depending on device requirements network requirements environmental factors and other conditions.

In certain embodiments the manager utilizes the above described consumption information to determine averages typical patterns of usage of the power source and various tasks thus compiling the analytic results . For example the average time of day of charging of the user device may be determined as e.g. 10 PM corresponding to the user s normal bed time. As another example an average frequency of charging of the device may be determined as e.g. 3 times per day. Still further the average rate of consumption of the power source during use of an application that connects to a data service may be determined as a percentage e.g. 13 of overall charge capacity. In certain instances the manager may also process the consumption information against one or more models not shown representing specific device or task behaviors. For instance a model representing known network access patterns of a specific brand or model of user device for a given geographic area may be compared against the consumption data. The models enable a more detailed analysis of the consumption information for a given user device to be performed.

The context information collected as consumption information during the training period may also be processed by the manager to further correlate specific tasks e.g. application or device calls with a particular device and or user context. For example it may be determined that the task of requesting streaming content from a media service is generally requested when the user is at their place of work. As another example it may be determined a word processing application of the user device is used more frequently during a certain time frame e.g. 5 PM to 6 30 PM without reliance on a network while a music application that accesses an online radio service is used most frequently from 8 PM 9 PM on Wednesdays and Fridays. It is noted that the manager may use the context information to refine the various conservation actions over time relative to the specific needs of the user including determining an optimal time to schedule certain tasks or sequence tasks for execution during a given day.

In certain embodiments the manager processes the analytic results to determine a prioritization of the various tasks for execution of a conservation action. By way of example the priority is assigned by the manager in order to schedule synchronize and coordinate the conservation actions based on the usage patterns. Under this approach certain actions are initiated prior to others for optimal conservation of the power source of the device .

The prioritization is carried out by the manager based on various rules all of which pertain to the consumption of the power source of the user device . This includes according to certain embodiments usage based prioritization consumption based prioritization and weighted average of usage based and consumption based prioritizations. With respect to usage based prioritization tasks are prioritized based on the pattern of total usage time for each task within a charge cycle. For example based on the historical consumption information if a first task A has an average usage time of e.g. 45 minutes charge cycle and a second task B has an average usage time of e.g. 30 minutes charge cycle task A is assigned a higher priority than task B. Hence the priority is based on the most frequently performed user device tasks.

As for consumption based prioritization tasks are prioritized based on the rate at which a given task will consume a power source of the user device . For example based on the historical consumption information if a first task A consumes a power source of the device at a rate of e.g. 12 minutes charge cycle and a second task B consumes battery power at a rate of e.g. 8 minutes charge cycle task B is assigned a higher priority than task A. Hence the priority is based on the most power source consuming tasks per charge cycle.

Regarding the weighted average of the above described prioritization methods it is noted the prioritization of tasks corresponds to a sequencing and or scheduling of the various conservation actions. Hence as noted previously certain tasks may be prioritized to be scheduled for execution at a later time while others may be prioritized for disablement or delay. Additionally the actions may be prioritized for execution based on a determined condition of the mobile device or the user. For example the prioritized executions may be triggered for execution in response to a determination of a current charge level of the power source a current time of day a current location of the user etc. The manager enables the conservation actions for a given task to be executed seamlessly such that there is no interruption in use of the user device .

It is noted that the manager may also process context information as a means of further determining the prioritization. For example the tasks may be prioritized based on the patterns on contextual relevancy of a given task within a charge cycle. Under this approach tasks determined not to match a particular user and or user device context are assigned higher priority than those tasks determined to match the current context of the user and or user device . The context may include for example a particular environment of the user workplace versus home a specific activity of the user business meeting versus recreation a mode of interaction of the user device with other user devices leisurely communication versus business correspondence etc. It is noted that contextual prioritization may be based on historical contextual patterns as determined during the training period rather than on real time contextual processing by the manager and hence persistent activation of the sensors .

In certain embodiments the manager may also render messages or detail information to a display of the user device for specifying the various conservation actions performed or scheduled to be performed. For example the user may activate a conservation action viewer that lists the one or more tasks delayed and or scheduled for execution at a later time by the manager . The conservation action viewer may indicate a time the one or more actions are to be performed or a condition for execution of the action e.g. when the device is next charged via an external power supply . The viewer may also indicate an order of priority of the actions relative to a specific task to be performed.

The manager may also cause the rendering of a message for indicating the conservation actions that were automatically executed by the manager . Under this scenario the message is presented as a prompt or temporary notification for brief review by the user. Alternatively a message may be presented for indicating one or more actions recommended to be executed. Under this scenario the user is able to review the conservation actions prioritized for execution by the manager before they are taken. The user then selects which actions to perform.

It is noted that user device may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the user device can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchanging of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable.

In certain embodiments user device the various services and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Communication network may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user device may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user device may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In addition the manager also maintains one or more databases for performing its various executions including a historical consumption information database for storing collected consumption information. In addition data pertaining to the analysis of the consumption information is maintained in an analytic results database . Still further profile information pertaining to the user and or the user device is maintained in a profile information database .

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the manager . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the manager via a registration interface. The registration process may include the establishing of various settings such as a length of time of a training period for gathering of historic consumption information . In addition the user may specify the frequency of occurrence of the training period such as to account for adaptations in the use of the mobile device the power source or various tasks. Still further the user may specify one or more preferences such as a preference to enable automatic execution of various conservation actions versus presenting recommendations in advance of execution of the actions. Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user user device or combination thereof and maintained as profile information .

In one embodiment the data collector collects consumption information during the established training period. This includes for example interfacing with various sensors of the user device to determine contextual information regarding the user and or the user device including temporal and location information. Data regarding the various sensors of the device may also be retrieved by the data collector to determine current network activity or external device connectivity. By way of example a sensor may detect the current charging of a power source of the user device by an external power source.

In addition to gathering sensor information the data collector may also operate in connection with the communication interface to communicate with an application client run time manager operating system application programming interface API or other agent of the user device to determine specific task executions of the device at a given time. Under this scenario the data collector is able to determine current task executions such as an internet communication global positioning system data exchange media streaming activity gaming activity etc. It is noted that the data collector generates a set of historical consumption information for use in supporting analysis and pattern determination by the analysis reporting module .

In one embodiment the analysis module analyzes the historical consumption information to determine one or more patterns trends and correlations of the device. The results of the analysis are then stored as analytic results . By way of example the module determines an average duration of performance of the one or more tasks a frequency of the performance of the one or more tasks an average rate of battery consumption for the one or more tasks or a combination thereof within a charge cycle of the mobile device . In addition the module analyzes contextual information gathered by the data collector for determining contextual patterns related to the user and or the user device .

The analysis module also determines a particular conservation action to associate with a given task based on the analysis. Hence the decision to delay end disable or otherwise schedule a task is based in part on the analytic results as well as the current status of the device . By way of example the current status of the device may pertain to an active charge cycle a low level charge status a critical near shutdown status a predetermined charge level a mode of use of the device a network connection level etc. It is noted that while the analysis module determines the one or more conservation actions to associate with a given task the order of execution of the actions are established by the task manager .

In one embodiment the task manager establishes the priority to associate with the one or more task executions based on the analytic results . The task manager determines the priority based on various prioritization methods including on the basis of a frequency of use of a specific task on the basis of power source consumption or a weighted average of the two. In addition the task manager determines the various conservation actions to perform based at least in part on the established prioritization the analytic results or a combination thereof. As mentioned previously the conservation actions may include the disabling ending or delaying of tasks at the user device as well as the scheduling of various tasks for execution at an optimal time i.e. during a charge time of the device .

In addition to scheduling tasks the task manager controls the queuing of conservation actions for execution by the control module . The queue sequence is determined by the task manager to ensure effective execution of the conservation actions. Of note certain conservation actions may need to be performed in a particular order to permit proper disablement or ending of a task in a manner that does not interfere with device operations. For example in the case of an active exchange between a push application and a push service the queue sequence may include determining a push feed channel status disabling the active push feed channel based on the status and ending the calling push application and download client. Some of these actions may be performed concurrently while others must be performed in sequential order to ensure seamless execution. The queuing may be based at least in part on the prioritization of the one or more tasks.

In one embodiment the control module executes the conservation actions as scheduled by the task manager per the prioritization of tasks. For example the control module generates a control signal to disable end or delay the one or more tasks specified by the task manager . In addition the control module also executes a conservation action at the time scheduled by the task manager . As such the actions are executed in a queued coordinated manner for maximizing the use of the power source.

Still further the control module operates in connection with a battery interface module . In certain embodiments the battery interface module interfaces with the power source of the device to affect consumption relevant to a current task and or established conservation action. This includes for example acting as a gateway between the various applications mechanisms and other tasks of the device and the power source to regulate the power source charge settings relative to a given conservation action. The battery interface module may also monitor the current charge level of the power source and convey signals to the control module when the charge level reaches a predetermined threshold. Still further the control module may enable the execution of additional conservation actions including automated activation of a particular device modality based on the determined charge level.

The control module also operates with the user interface module to enable user selection and activation of one or more modes of operation specific to the execution of one or more tasks. The modes of operation correspond to the selective enabling of some tasks combined with the disabling of others. For example a Music Video Only mode of operation enables tasks related to the processing and accessing of music and or video content to be maintained while all other tasks such as Bluetooth status updates global positioning tracking and the like are disabled. As another example a Bluetooth Only mode maintains Bluetooth connectivity and related tasks while disabling or ending all other tasks of the device . It is noted that the control module translates input provided to the user interface module pertaining to selection of a particular mode of operation into control signals for activation of one or more conservation actions.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting a message regarding the one or more conservation actions performed by the control module . In addition the user interface module operates in connection with the task manager to generate one or more recommended conservation actions. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the various applications of the user devices thus enabling the display of graphics primitives.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the manager the application and services . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the manager over the network .

The above presented modules and components of the manager can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the manager may be implemented for direct operation by respective user devices . As such the manager may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the device for controlling execution of various applications and or for controlling various device operations.

In step the manager collects consumption information relating to a power source of a user device for execution of one or more tasks performed at the mobile device. As noted the consumption information includes data such as a timing of performance of specific tasks a frequency of performance of tasks a timing of execution of a charge cycle of the user device etc. This information may be collected during a training period as established by the user or by default by the manager . It is noted in certain instances that the user may specify initiation of the training period at a time of their choosing such as to enable the manager to account for a change in use of the device.

Per step the manager determines a pattern of use with respect to the one or more tasks based on the collected consumption information. As noted previously the pattern of use may correspond to computation of averages of the consumption information i.e. an average rate of consumption of the power source relative to a task an average time of performance of a task etc. In step the manager selects an action to conserve usage of the power source according to the pattern of use in response to subsequent execution of the one or more tasks. The actions may include for example performing the one or more tasks at a scheduled time ending performance of the one or more tasks delaying performance of the one or more tasks disabling a feature of the one or more tasks or a combination thereof.

It is contemplated in certain instances that an additional conservation action may include diverting of the one or more tasks to another device of the user. Under this scenario the manager notifies the other registered device of the task or queues the task for execution at the other device. The other device which is configured to perform the same tasks e.g. includes the same application performs the task upon request or as queued. For example in response to a low charge level of a smartphone the task of updating news content may be diverted by the manager to the user s tablet device. In this instance the manager may send a wakeup notification call a content download agent associated with the same application at the tablet. By diverting high consumption tasks the amount of useful life of the power source is extended.

In step of process the manager initiates the action conservation action wherein the action includes performing the one or more tasks at a scheduled time ending performance of the one or more tasks delaying performance of the one or more tasks disabling a feature of the one or more tasks or a combination thereof. Per step the manager assigns a priority to each of the tasks based on the pattern of use. As noted the priority may correspond to an order of initiation or queuing of the conservation action.

In step of process the manager determines an average time period an average frequency or a combination thereof of a charge cycle of the battery to set the scheduled time for performance of the one or more tasks. The charge cycle corresponds to a process or duration of time for charging of the user device . In another step the manager determines an average duration of the performance of the one or more tasks a frequency of the performance of the one or more tasks an average rate of battery consumption for the one or more tasks or a combination thereof within the charge cycle. Still further in step the manager determines that an average rate of battery consumption for the one or more tasks satisfies a predetermined threshold. As noted previously the averages are computed based on the historical consumption information gathered for a duration of time corresponding to the training period. The scheduled time corresponds to a period of minimal activity or charging of the device as determined as a result of analysis of the consumption information.

Per step the manager associates the one or more tasks with the scheduled time for the performance of the one or more tasks. By way of example the schedule may correspond to an average time of charging of the power source a typical time of a specific instance of charging of the user device or a time of occurrence of a particular device or user context. In the case of the latter the device or user context may correspond to a determination the user is located at their work environment versus their home environment. When the historical consumption information is analyzed to reveal higher use of wireless and Bluetooth related tasks at the home environment the manager can schedule certain tasks to occur when the user is at work.

In step of process the manager presents via a display of the mobile device a user interface for configuring the action to associate with one of the tasks. Per step the manager receives an input via the user interface for indicating a mode of operation of the mobile device . As noted previously the mode of operation is based on one or more conservation actions for execution with respect to one or more tasks of the mobile device . The different modes of operation of the mobile device are described more fully later on with respect to .

In step an application of the mobile device submits a request to perform a task. Under this scenario the task is detected by the battery interface module which then submits a request to analyze task. This includes for example analyzing the current usage e.g. state activity frequency of use of application via the analysis module . The analysis module then submits the analytic results back to the battery interface module per step wherein the results confirm to a time based duration based execution of the task. It is noted that when the device is configured for operation during a training period the data collector module may operate to collect consumption information regarding the task.

In steps and respectively the battery interface module submits a request to the task manager to queue prioritize the task and the task manager associates a conservation action with the task accordingly. Once the conservation action is determined the task manager submits an acknowledgement to the battery interface module corresponding to step . In accordance with the prioritized conservation action the battery interface module submits a request to cause a disabling of the task per step disabling being the conservation action associated with the task. In response the control module generates a control signal to disable the task and then notifies the task manager of completion of the action. As a result the task manager notifies the application of the completed task corresponding to step . The notification may include a message that reads Updating Synchronization has been disabled. 

In step the conservation action corresponds to the scheduling of the task for later execution as opposed to ending or disabling the task. Under this scenario the task manager initiates the task at the scheduled time i.e. an optimal time of least spending of the power source. The task manager in response notifies the application to execute the task per step . In step the application responds by sending a notification to the task manager that the task is now active. The battery interface module then flags the task for execution in step such as due to receipt of a token from the task manager for indicating the task was scheduled. Subsequently the battery interface module acknowledges granting of the scheduled task corresponding to step .

In a configuration interface of the manager is rendered to a display of the device . The configuration interface features various user selection options for establishing various manager settings. By way of example an analysis frequency setting is presented for enabling the user to establish the frequency of gathering of consumption information pertaining to the device . One or more checkboxes such as checkbox are presented for selection by the user to indicate the frequency corresponding to a frequency option of daily a custom frequency or an automatic frequency set by the manager . Also presented is a data entry field for enabling the user to specify a length of time of a training period. By way of these selection and data entry options the user is able to configure the duration of training as well as its frequency of occurrence e.g. every 90 days . Initial training and retraining is required for to enable the manager to account for changes in use of the battery of the device the addition of different applications and services etc.

The user is also presented with a listing of the available conservation modes of the device. Under this scenario the conservation modes include e.g. an Airport Mode for disabling all wireless communications of the device a Music Wifi Only mode for disabling all tasks except wireless communication and accessing of a music service a Music Video Only mode for disabling all tasks except access of a music and video service a Bluetooth Only mode for disabling all tasks except Bluetooth communication and a GPS Only mode for disabling all tasks except a location based service. The user may select a particular mode to further configure its execution by activating a corresponding button i.e. button to configure GPS Only mode. In addition the user may also define a customized mode of operation via a customization setting of the configuration interface. The customization setting includes a field for enabling the user to assign a name to the mode of operation. In addition the user may select various checkboxes e.g. checkbox for indicating the one or more tasks to be maintained active in accordance with the mode of operation. Once the selections are made the user can save the settings by selecting the SAVE action button or cancel the selections by selecting the CANCEL action button .

The configuration interface also presents a selection option by way of checkbox for the user to be notified of manager initiated conservation actions before they are executed. By selecting this option the user is presented with one or more recommendation messages for indicating a proposed conservation action. If the user opts not to select the checkbox however the conservation actions are executed automatically by the manager accordingly. Once the various selection options presented at the configuration interface are made by the user the user may save the settings by selecting the SAVE action button . Alternatively the user may select the DESELECT or EXIT action buttons and respectively to deselect the various selection options or exit from the configuration interface.

In the device is shown as it is engaged in a training period. As noted with respect to the training period may be established as a number of days selected by the user or may be established by the manager . It is noted that the training period may be required to correspond to a minimum number of days such that a more comprehensive historical consumption data set is collected. A longer period of time for training enables the manager to more extensively analyze the consumption information to determine patterns of use of various tasks patterns of use of the battery of the mobile device user behavior patterns and tendencies etc.

Under this scenario the user is actively employing a media player application to watch video content . The media player application requires execution of various tasks and subtasks to support its execution including accessing a content service via a network connection. An icon is presented via a status bar of the user interface for indicating the active connection i.e. active status of a network client or agent of the device. In addition another icon is presented via the status bar for indicating the active status of a Bluetooth connection i.e. active status of a short range communication client or agent of the device. In this case the device is paired with a Bluetooth headset not shown through which the user listens to the video content as it is executed.

Also presented to the status bar is a current battery charge level an icon for activating the manager and or various functions thereof and current time information . Under this scenario the manager gathers information regarding the start time end time and duration of use of the media player application. In addition the amount of battery charge dissipated during execution of the media player application the network connection and the Bluetooth connection is gathered. Still further during the training period additional context information regarding the user and or the device may be gathered including location information network signal identification information etc. This process of monitoring device activity and battery consumption is repeated throughout the training period for the myriad of tasks performed. The analytic results generated as a result of this training may be stored in association with a profile of the user.

In the user activates the manager to select a specific mode of operation of the device . The mode of operation corresponds to one or more conservation actions for execution as a means of conserving a battery of the device . It is noted the modes of operation may be implemented on demand by the user whether or not a training period has been performed by selecting the manager icon . Furthermore the user may select from one or more custom modes of operation as defined via the configuration interface of the manager per .

Under this scenario the user is on a long road trip and does not have access to an external power source. The device currently renders the home screen to the display where the user is presented with various icons for launching various applications of the device . The task bar is also presented to display current activities and or status details regarding the device . Currently one or more icons are shown for indicating an active network connection icon an active push data feed connection icon an active Bluetooth connection icon and an active location based service GPS connection icon . The current charge level is also shown as e.g. 92 of capacity.

Recognizing the need to conserve the battery during the long trip the user decides to activate the manager icon to launch a conservation action viewer . In this case the user provides touch input to the touchscreen of the device . In response the conservation action viewer presents the various conservation modes available for selection activation e.g. as one or more action buttons. The user decides they only need access to the GPS service at the moment to continue receiving updated routing information via a routing application of the device. Resultantly the user selects the GPS Only mode action button causing the manager to coordinate the prioritization queuing of various other tasks and execution of one or more associated conservation actions.

Under this scenario the wireless network connection per icon push data feed connection per icon and Bluetooth connection per icon are subject to various conservation actions. For example the Bluetooth connection and wireless network connection are rendered disabled by the manager while the push data feed is scheduled to occur at a scheduled time. In certain embodiments the order of execution of the conservation actions may be based on use or lack thereof the historic battery consumption rate associated with the respective tasks e.g. disable most consuming first or a combination thereof.

Still further in the case of a disable conservation action being performed the manager may mark or otherwise indicate which applications of the device are affected by this action. For example the disabling of the wireless connection Bluetooth connection and push data feed connection causes the icons e.g. icon representing applications that employ these features to be highlighted. The highlighting may indicate the applications are not available for launch during execution of the GPS only mode or that corresponding features of the application that require these tasks are disabled accordingly. By way of this approach the user is provided a visual indication of the conservation action. In addition the one or more icons and corresponding to the various tasks are shown as disabled by virtue of an overlaid X mark.

In the manager generates one or more conservation actions in response to a determined condition or state of use of the device . By way of this approach the conservation action viewer presents the recommendations prior to their execution. It is noted this scenario corresponds to an instance where the user selects checkbox of the configuration interface.

In the user employs a word processing application of the device to draft a letter for a perspective customer during their evening commute home. Historically it is determined the user tends to utilize the word processing application during their commute period from 5 30 PM to 6 30 PM. It is also determined that the user typically types the letter using a Bluetooth connected keyboard thus requiring active connectivity of a Bluetooth client of the device . For the purpose of illustration the device is not connected to an external power source and thus not in a charging state.

The task bar is presented to indicate the current active state of a wireless connection per icon push data feed per icon the Bluetooth connection per icon and the location based service connection per icon . The manager monitors the current battery capacity of the device to determine it has been depleted to a predetermined threshold which in this case is a 20 charge level. As a result the manager automatically generates a recommendation for execution of various conservation actions. The recommended conservation actions are presented via the conservation action viewer in the order in which they are queued for execution.

In this example the recommendations include disabling the wireless network connection scheduling the push data feed for a later time and disabling the location based service connection GPS . The network connection and location based service are recommended due to assignment of these tasks as high priority by the manager . This prioritization is based on historical consumption patterns which show these tasks are often active and contribute to high consumption of available battery power. In certain instances the priority may be based on a combination both task use and consumption such that the priority assignment accounts for different consumptions scenarios. For example a high consumption task that is also frequently used may be assigned a lower priority during this particular time of execution while a high battery consuming activity that is rarely used is prioritized higher for disablement deactivation.

In the case of the push data feed the manager schedules it to occur during a historic charge time of the device e.g. 10 PM during the user s normal bedtime . Alternatively in the case where the user typically charges the device many times throughout the day it is scheduled to occur during a charge time of historically limited activity of the user. For example if the user charges the device briefly as they prepare for work during lunch and at home before retiring the push data feed may be activated during the lunch period to correspond to the relative inactivity of the user during this time.

The user may select the GO action button to activate all of the recommendations or the CANCEL action button to cancel the recommendations and continue operating the device in its current state. Alternatively the user may choose specific actions to execute within the list by way of touch screen activation. In this scenario the user selects the GO action button to execute all of the recommended conservation actions. As a result the conservation actions are shown as disabled in FIG. F i.e. the icons and representing the once active tasks are shown as having an X overlaid upon them to represent their inactivity. Of note the Bluetooth connection represented by icon is maintained pursuant to historical consumption patterns indicating the usage of this task versus typical lack of usage of the others.

In the manager enables automatic execution of one or more conservation actions. This corresponds to an instance wherein the user does not opt to select checkbox for generating recommendations of conservation actions. Instead a notification message may be presented subsequent to execution of the tasks.

By way of example the user employs a social networking application to communicate with a friend. The social networking application accesses the service via an internet connection. It is determined by the manager that the user typically engages this application and the network client for during the current time of day i.e. 12 PM 1 PM corresponding to the user s lunch period. Hence the manager initiates a conservation action based on this trend including for example scheduling of a push data feed connection to be executed at a historic charge time of the device. Another conservation action automatically executed includes disabling of a location based service and a Bluetooth connection both of which are not required and or vital to the social networking application and prioritized for disablement. It is noted that the conservation actions are carried out seamlessly with no interruption of the current use of the social networking application.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enable a power source of a mobile device to be conserved. One advantage includes the ability of an intelligent power source manager to regulate and coordinate one or more conservation actions based on historical trends and patterns of use of the battery. As another advantage the intelligent power source manager enables one or more device modes to be selected by the user for accommodating different task needs at a given time while still conserving useful life of the battery. Still further the intelligent power source manager enables automatic execution of the various conservation action and or modes with limited or no user intervention.

Accordingly to certain embodiments the described arrangements and processes advantageously conserve power usage and therefore can extend battery life. Although these embodiments are explained with respect to a power source that includes a battery it is contemplated that the processes can be employed with any power source to optimize power consumption.

It is noted that the processes described herein for conserving power of a mobile device based on its pattern of use with respect to one or more tasks of the mobile device may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to conserve a power source of a mobile device based on its pattern of use with respect to one or more tasks of the mobile device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

