---

title: System and method for providing a platform for the trade of financial instruments
abstract: The present invention is a system and method for providing a trading platform for the trade of F.I.s. According to some embodiments of the present invention, there may be provided a server or server cluster including at least one Interfacing Server adapted to interface with a user, possibly via a distributed data network such as the interne. The IS1 may be adapted to present to a user a trading platform, to receive from a user trade instructions, via the platform, and execute them. The trading platform may include innovative trade options including mid-trade options (e.g. trade insurance), batch trade options, series trade options, parlay trade options and “close now”/“extend” options.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676696&OS=08676696&RS=08676696
owner: 
number: 08676696
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121128
---
U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 011 904 titled A System and Method for Providing a Platform for the Trade of Financial Instruments filed on Jan. 23 2011 by the inventor of the present application and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 776 448 titled A System and Method for Providing a Platform for the Trade of Exotic Options filed on May 10 2010 by the inventor of the present application 

The present invention is generally related to the field of financial instruments trading. More specifically the present invention is related to a system and method for providing a platform for the trade of financial instruments.

Electronic trading sometimes called e trading is a method of trading securities such as stocks and bonds currencies exchange traded derivatives and other financial instruments via distributed data networks electronically. Electronic trading generally uses information technology systems such as the internet and proprietary networks to bring together buyers and sellers on electronic trading platforms to create virtual market places which augment or connect with existing trading systems. NASDAQ NYSE Arca and Globex are examples of markets which are augmented with and or strongly interconnected to electronic trading systems. Exchanges that facilitate electronic trading in the United States are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC and are generally called electronic communication networks or ECNs.

The foreign exchange market Forex or FX is where currency trading takes place. Forex trading is defined as the simultaneous buying of one currency and selling of another. The currency of one country is exchanged for that of another. The currencies may be traded in pairs such as US Dollar Japanese Yen Euro US Dollar Brazilian Real Jordanian Dinar and so on.

At or about 1996 on line retail Forex trading became practical. Internet based market makers would take the opposite side of retail trader s trades. These companies also created a retail Forex platform that provided a quick and easy way for individuals to buy and sell on the Forex spot market.

Nowadays one can trade virtually any financial instrument online through a variety of electronic trading service providers. These e trade services are quickly developing yet still do not realize the plethora of new trading possibilities which may be achieved within a computerized environment.

In finance an exotic option is a derivative which has features making it more complex than commonly traded products vanilla options . These products are usually traded over the counter OTC or are embedded in structured notes.

Consider an equity index. A straight call or put either American or European would be considered non exotic vanilla . An exotic product could have one or more of the following features 

Even products traded actively in the market can have the characteristics of exotic options such as convertible bonds whose valuation can depend on the price and volatility of the underlying equity the credit rating the level and volatility of interest rates and the correlations between these factors.

A binary option is a type of option where the payoff is either some fixed amount of some asset or nothing at all. The two main types of binary options are the cash or nothing binary option and the asset or nothing binary option. The cash or nothing binary option pays some fixed amount of cash if the option expires in the money while the asset or nothing pays the value of the underlying security. Thus the options are binary in nature because there are only two possible outcomes. They are also called all or nothing options digital options more common in forex interest rate markets and Fixed Return Options FROs on the American Stock Exchange .

For example a purchase is made of a binary cash or nothing call option on XYZ Corp s stock struck at 100 with a binary payoff of 1000. Then if at the future maturity date the stock is trading at or above 100 1000 is received. If its stock is trading below 100 nothing is received.

In the popular Black Scholes model the value of a digital option can be expressed in terms of the cumulative normal distribution function.

Binary option contracts have long been available Over the counter OTC i.e. sold directly by the issuer to the buyer. They were generally considered exotic instruments and there was no liquid market for trading these instruments between their issuance and expiration. They were often seen embedded in more complex option contracts.

In 2007 the Options Clearing Corporation proposed a rule change to allow binary options and the Securities and Exchange Commission approved listing cash or nothing binary options in 2008. In May 2008 the American Stock Exchange Amex launched exchange traded European cash or nothing binary options and the Chicago Board Options Exchange CBOE followed in June 2008. The standardization of binary options allows them to be exchange traded with continuous quotations.

Amex offers binary options on some ETFs and a few highly liquid equities such as Citigroup and Google. Amex calls binary options Fixed Return Options calls are named Finish High and puts are named Finish Low . To reduce the threat of market manipulation of single stocks Amex FROs use a settlement index defined as a volume weighted average of trades on the expiration day.

CBOE offers binary options on the S P 500 SPX and the CBOE Volatility Index VIX . The tickers for these are BSZ and BVZ respectively. CBOE only offers calls as binary put options are trivial to create synthetically from binary call options. BSZ strikes are at 5 point intervals and BVZ strikes are at 1 point intervals. The actual underlying to BSZ and BVZ are based on the opening prices of index basket members.

Both Amex and CBOE listed options have values between 0 and 1 with a multiplier of 100 and tick size of 0.01 and are cash settled.

Still as of yet the exotic options trading platforms available are limited and cumbersome. Therefore a more flexible and easier to use trading platform for trading these options would be desirable.

F.I. any financial instrument which is traded on a market e.g. stocks bonds currencies options commodities future contracts etc.

Reverse Trade a second trade may be the reverse of a first trade if the circumstances that would be expected to create a loss in the first trade may be expected to create a gain in the second trade and vice versa. In other words a trade may be the reverse of another trade if it is comprised of the opposing act of ownership in relation to an F.I.. For example the purchase of a given F.I. may be the reverse trade of the sale of the given F.I. and vice versa and the purchase of an option to buy a given F.I. may be the reverse trade of an option to sell the given F.I. and vice versa. Clearly the same logic may be used to create reverse trades for any trade. Exotic F.I. Exotic Option Exotic Contract a derivative of another F.I. which derivative has features making it more complex than commonly traded F.I. derivatives also known as vanilla standard options as opposed to exotic options . Examples of Exotic F.I. s may include 

The present invention is a system and method for providing a trading platform for the trade of F.I.s. According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided a server or server cluster including at least one Interfacing Server hereby IS1 adapted to interface with a user possibly via a distributed data network such as the internet. The IS1 may be adapted to present to a user a F.I. trading platform as described below and to receive from a user trade instructions and execute them. The server cluster may further comprise a transaction server an accounts database a F.I. related data database an operational database a trading module a F.I. related data analyzer a gateway and or any other server types functionally relevant to F.I. trading. The servers within the cluster may each be functionally associated with a communication module which in turn may be functionally associated with the gateway and adapted to relay communications from to the one or more servers over a distributed data network such as the internet. Any and all computational architecture known today or to be devised in the future may be applicable to the present invention.

It should be understood by one of skill in the art that the servers and or server cluster may reside in one or a set of physical servers and possibly across sets of redundant physical servers. Furthermore the described architecture may be implemented within a stand alone console incorporating all or a portion of the below described components.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the IS1 may be adapted to present to a user on 1 a remote device or 2 a user interface connected directly to the IS1 a trading platform for trading F.I. s as described below. The code for the trading platform may be stored on the operational database functionally associated with the IS1. It should be clear to one of ordinary skill in the art that one or more of the functions described as being performed by a server e.g. the IS1 may be performed by an application instanced on the user s remote device which application may be pre installed on the user s remote device or downloaded to the device by the IS1 as needed.

The trading platform may include options for a user to view data relating to F.I. s the parameters of their trade on different exchanges parameters relating to Exotic F.I.s and their trade and any other data relevant to the trade of F.I. s .

The data may be relayed to the user directly from a market data provider and or may be stored on the F.I. related data database and retrieved by the IS1 when needed. The trading platform may further include options for a user to view results of analyses of the data designed specifically for the trading platform performed by the F.I. related data analyzer. The data may be displayed to the user in different forms e.g. graphs lists charts tables etc. The IS1 may be adapted to create different visual forms of the raw data for this purpose e.g. the IS1 may be adapted to create graphs from lists of parameters .

According to some embodiments of the current invention the IS1 possibly in conjunction with the F.I. data analyzer may be adapted to modify the data e.g. prices displayed to the user so as to factor in a commission for the system s proprietor. The IS1 may be further adapted to display said commission s rate to the user on the trading platform. Accordingly every trade performed for the user by the system may inherently result in the user being charged said commission.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the trading platform presented to the user may include options to trade Exotic F.I.s such as binary options or any other F.I. s . The trading platform may allow a user to first define parameters relating to the Exotic F.I. or ordinary F.I. he wishes to trade and accordingly calculate possibly in conjunction with the F.I. related data analyzer and present to the user the possible outcomes of his prospective trade. Parameters relating to the Exotic F.I. and or ordinary F.I. may include 1 the expiration time 2 the amount traded i.e. amount risked 3 the nature of the F.I. i.e. buy or sell 4 the type of option F.I. e.g. binary call etc. 5 the underlying asset e.g. Google and 6 any other relevant parameter. According to further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may allow the user to define multiple trades to be executed simultaneously which may include one or more common parameters such as a common expiration time.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may also allow a user to extend shorten the expiration time of an Exotic F.I. and or ordinary F.I. already purchased for a fee which fee may be pre defined or calculated specifically for each instance.

According to yet further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may also include a Rollover option which may allow a user to order a sequence of similar or identical trades wherein the user may define the number of trades to be executed sequentially or to define a target profit and instruct the system to continue executing the defined trade sequentially until the target profit is gained or all the money risked is lost.

Actions taken by the user within the trading platform may be translated by the IS1 into trade orders which trades orders may then be performed by ordering the trades from a broker and or directly by the trading module. Orders for trade of Exotic F.I.s and or ordinary F.I. s may be performed by trading Exotic F.I.s or F.I. s on the market or the IS1 possibly in conjunction with the F.I. related data analyzer and or the trading module may be further adapted to communicate trade instructions of other F.I. s to brokers and or the trading server so as to build positions in the market equivalent to the Exotic F.I.s and or ordinary F.I. s traded i.e. to purchase sell or otherwise trade F.I. s so that any gains or losses accrued by the user in his use of the system will be gained or lost in the market.

The IS1 may be further adapted to calculate the taxes owed by the user for any profits gained while trading on the system and may be even further adapted to withhold these taxes from the user s account.

While trading a user may be accorded leverage by the system based on 1 the funds he she has deposited 2 the specific F.I. being traded 3 the quantity of the F.I. being traded 4 the amount risked in a specific trade and or 5 pre defined criteria or by specific allowance from an administrator of the system or his her agent. According to further embodiments of the present invention the system may be associated with security accounts which security accounts may be dedicated to secure greater leverage from brokers when trading F.I. s via said brokers i.e. augmenting the user s deposited funds in order to obtain a larger margin .

The IS1 may be functionally associated with an accounts database which accounts database may contain data relating to each specific user and the funds he she has available in his her account. The IS1 may be adapted to update the data contained within the accounts database based on a user s activity on the trading platform. The IS1 may be further associated with a transaction server adapted to facilitate monetary transactions between a user and the system i.e. deposit and withdrawal of funds to from his her account.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

It should be understood that the accompanying drawings are presented solely to elucidate the following detailed description are therefore exemplary in nature and do not include all the possible permutations of the present invention.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of particular applications of the invention and their requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The term server may refer to a single server or to a functionally associated cluster of servers.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and capable of being coupled to a computer system bus.

The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the inventions as described herein.

It should be understood that any topology technology and or standard for computer networking e.g. mesh networks infiniband connections RDMA etc. known today or to be devised in the future may be applicable to the present invention.

The present invention is a system and method for providing a trading platform for the trade of F.I.s. According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided a server or server cluster including at least one Interfacing Server hereby IS1 adapted to interface with a user possibly via a distributed data network such as the internet. The IS1 may be adapted to present to a user a F.I. trading platform as described below and to receive from a user trade instructions and execute them. The a server or server cluster may further comprise a transaction server an accounts database a F.I. related data database an operational database a trading module a F.I. related data analyzer a gateway and or any other server types functionally relevant to F.I. trading. The servers within the cluster may each be functionally associated with a communication module which in turn may be functionally associated with the gateway and adapted to communicate with one or more of the other components of the system and to relay through the gateway communications from to the one or more servers over a distributed data network such as the internet. Any and all computational architecture known today or to be devised in the future may be applicable to the present invention.

It should be understood by one of skill in the art that the servers and or server cluster may reside in one or a set of physical servers and possibly across sets of redundant physical servers.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the IS1 may be adapted to present to a user upon a remote device such as but not limited to a personal computer PC an Internet website a cellular phone an Interactive television and or any other remote device or on a user interface connected directly to the IS1 a trading platform for trading F.I.s as described below. The code for the trading platform may be stored on the operational database functionally associated with the IS1. It should be clear to one of ordinary skill in the art that one or more of the functions described as being performed by a server e.g. the IS1 may be performed alternatively by an application instanced on the user s remote device which application may be pre installed on the user s remote device or downloaded to the device by the IS1 as needed.

The trading platform may include multiple display options for a user to view data relating to F.I. s the parameters of their trade on different exchanges parameters relating to Exotic F.I.s and their trade and any other data relevant to the trade of F.I.s. The IS1 may be adapted to acquire directly or through a third party from market data providers brokers and or the trading server data relating to the trade of F.I. s on one or more exchanges which provide markets for the trading of F.I. s. The data may be relayed to the user directly from a market data provider and or may be stored on the F.I. related data database and retrieved by the IS1 when needed. The trading platform may further include one or more options for a user to view results of analyses of said data designed specifically for the trading platform which analyses may be performed by the IS1 and or the F.I. related data analyzer automatically and or in response to a request from the user. The F.I. related data analyzer may be adapted to analyze data according to any known F.I. behavioral model and or compare different characteristics of different F.I. s. The trading platform may further provide for a user to define parameters of the data and or analyses he wishes to view e.g. the trading platform may allow the user to choose which F.I. s to include in the display time periods type of analyses etc. The data may be displayed to the user possibly by user choice in different forms e.g. graphs lists charts tables etc. The IS1 may be adapted to create different visual forms of raw data for this purpose e.g. the IS1 may be adapted to create graphs from lists of parameters .

According to some embodiments of the current invention the IS1 possibly in conjunction with the F.I. data analyzer may be adapted to modify the data e.g. prices displayed to the user so as to factor in a commission for the system s proprietor. The IS1 may be further adapted to display said commission s rate to the user on the trading platform. Accordingly every trade performed for the user by the system may inherently result in the user being charged said commission.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the trading platform presented to the user may include options for the user to trade in Exotic F.I.s such as binary options and or ordinary F.I. s such as stocks or options. The trading platform may allow a user to first define parameters relating to the Exotic F.I. or ordinary F.I. he wishes to trade and accordingly calculate possibly in conjunction with the F.I. related data analyzer the possible outcomes of the prospective trade. Parameters relating to the Exotic F.I. and or ordinary F.I. may include 1 the expiration time 2 the amount traded i.e. amount risked 3 the nature of the option i.e. call or put 4 the type of option e.g. binary stock option 5 the underlying asset e.g. Google and 6 any other relevant parameter. For example a user may define Google as the underlying asset 12 p.m. as the expiration time a binary call type option and 1000 as the risked amount. Once the trade parameters are defined the IS1 may allocate an identifier to the defined trade and may provide the user with a display containing the defined parameters relevant market data e.g. the current price of the underlying asset possible outcomes of the prospective trade and a control element associated with the identifier for execution of the defined trade. Returning to the previous example the IS1 and or F.I. related data analyzer may calculate that for this trade the profit will be 800 if the price of Google is above its current price at 12 p.m. Alternatively the profit may be displayed as a percentage i.e. 80 or the user may be allowed to select the form of display he desires i.e. percentage or amount. In the above example the IS1 may then provide a display as seen in .

While presenting the resulting display the trading platform may be adapted to allow a user to edit the defined parameters. In response the IS1 may allocate a new identifier to the newly defined trade and update the possible outcomes of the trade accordingly.

Within the resulting display there may also be a control element such as a button associated with the trade identifier which control element may serve for the user to instruct the system to execute the trade in accordance with the defined parameters.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may provide for the user to define multiple trades to be executed simultaneously a Batch of trades which trades may include one or more common parameters such as a common expiration time. For example the user may be able to define 3 exotic options contracts to be traded all of which will expire at 12 p.m. however one being a binary call type option with Google as the underlying asset one being a binary call type option with EURO USD as the underlying asset and one being a binary put type option with Gold as the underlying asset. In such cases the IS1 may allocate a Batch identifier to the defined trades provide the user with a display including the defined parameters for each of the multiple trades relevant market data e.g. the current price of all of the underlying assets the possible outcomes of each of the prospective trades and a control element associated with the batch identifier for execution of the defined trades. An exemplary display of this option can be seen in FIGS. . The trading platform may further provide the user with aggregate data of possible outcomes of the multiple trades in unison i.e. the possible profit if one of the trades succeeds two succeed three succeed etc. In batch trades the trading platform may provide for the user to define the amount risked in each trade and or may provide for the user to define a total amount risked for all the trades. When the user defines the total amount risked in all the trades the trading platform may divide the total amount risked equally amongst all the trades. For example if a user defines three trades to be executed as a batch risking a total of 3 000 the trading platform may define each of the three trades as risking 1 000 . In response to a user interaction with the control element associated with the batch identifier the IS1 may be adapted to cause the trading module to execute all of the trades defined in the batch substantially simultaneously.

According to yet further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may allow the user to parlay multiple trades so that only if all of the trades a classic parlay or a certain pre defined portion of the parlayed trades known as a Round Robin are successful will there be a profit. In these cases the IS1 may allocate a Parlay identifier to the combination of defined trades. The profit for such a trade may be higher than the profit would be if each of the trades was executed separately. For a classic parlay type trade the profit for a successful trade i.e. all the parlayed trades were successful will be calculated based on the odds of the required amount of trades succeeding taking into account the house commission. Therefore the profit for a classic parlay including N trades if the profit would be 0.8 to 1 for each of the trades individually will be 1.8 to the N power minus 1 multiplied by the amount risked. For example if a user successfully parlays 2 trades risking 100 each of which would pay 80 if executed separately his her profit will be 1.8 1.8 1 224 . An exemplary display of this option can be seen in . For example a user may define a classic parlay type trade parlaying a binary call type option with Google as the underlying asset a binary call type option with EUR USD as the underlying asset and a binary put type option with Gold as the underlying asset with all three expiring at 12 p.m. In this case the user will only profit if at 12 p.m. the price of Google is higher than the current price and the price of EUR USD is higher than the current price and the price of Gold is lower. The user s profit however for this trade may be 483 1.8 1.8 1.8 1 of the risked amount as opposed to 80 if the trades were executed separately. In a further example a user may define the same three trades in a round robin type parlay with two trades being the necessary number of successful trades. In this case the user will profit if at least two of the three trades are successful. It should be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that other combinations of trades and dependencies of their outcomes may be provided and profits calculated accordingly.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may also provide for a user to extend shorten the expiration time of an Exotic F.I. and or ordinary F.I. already purchased for a fee which fee may be pre defined or calculated specifically for each instance. For example a user may select to close a trade based on the current price of an underlying asset of a purchased exotic F.I. and or ordinary F.I. instead of the price at the pre defined expiration time a Close Now option. Conversely a user may choose to extend the expiration time of a purchased exotic F.I. and or ordinary F.I. if that time is approaching and the price of the underlying asset is not where he she would like it to be. For example if a user has purchased an exotic option of the binary call type with a 12 p.m. expiration time and at 11 a.m. the user sees that the price of the underlying asset is still below the strike price he she may decide to extend the expiration time to 1 p.m.

According to yet further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may also include a Rollover option which may allow a user to order a sequence of similar or identical trades to be executed consecutively wherein the user may define the number of trades to be executed sequentially or may define a target profit and instruct the system to continue executing the defined trade sequentially using all the acquired funds each time until the target profit is gained or all the money risked is lost. Obviously for such an option the expiration time must be defined as an interval e.g. every hour or every day at 12 p.m. etc. and not as a specific time. For example a user may instruct the system to purchase a binary call type option with Google as the underlying asset every hour risking 1000 and with a target profit of 5000 . The system will then continue purchasing such an option for the user every hour risking both the 1000 and any profit gained along the way each time until either all the funds are lost or a total of 5000 has been gained. Similarly a user may instruct the system to execute the trade 5 times in a row and then stop. In this case the IS1 may execute the defined trade 5 times consecutively risking both the originally risked funds plus minus any profit loss gained sustained along the way each time. The IS1 may assign a Series identifier to trades defined as rollover type trades and present to the user a display including the defined parameters possible outcomes and a control element associated with the series identifier for execution of the sequence of trades.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the trading platform may also include an Insurance option see which may allow a user to purchase an insurance of amounts risked in an existing trade a mid trade option or in a future trade for a fee which fee may be pre defined or calculated specifically for each instance. In other words the trading platform may provide a user with an option to pay a premium fee in association with a specific trade in exchange for which the user may be reimbursed for a portion or all of any losses he she incurs as a result of the trade. The premium fee for insurance for a specific trade may be calculated by the IS1 possibly in conjunction with the F.I. related data analyzer based on a risk evaluation and or one or more pre defined formulas which pre defined formulas may include different formulas for different types of trades. Obviously the price of insurance may vary as the price of the underlying asset changes in the relevant market as the expiration time draws nearer and or when any other event occurs altering the risk involved with the trade i.e. the price of insurance may be dynamic. Accordingly a changing display may constantly advise a user of the price of insurance for a given trade at any given time. A control element may be displayed in association with the insurance price display which control element may allow a user to purchase the offered insurance. According to further embodiments of the present invention when a user purchases insurance the IS1 may automatically order contrary trades to the trade being insured trades designed to gain when the trade in question losses to assure the system will not lose if the insured event occurs i.e. the IS1 may build positions in the market designed to insure the trade in question shifting the risk away from the proprietor of the system. For example a user who has purchased a binary call type option with Google as the underlying asset risking 1000 and with an expiration time of 12 pm may at 11 30 am seeing that the price of Google has gone down decide to purchase insurance for the trade. In this case if Google is below the strike price at 12 pm the user will have lost the 1000 he she originally risked. Due to the insurance however the user may be reimbursed for some or all of his her losses.

According to further embodiments of the present invention once a trade is in progress the trading platform may further include one or more further mid trade options. Some mid trade options may allow a user to close a portion or all of an existing trade based on the current price of the underlying asset close now while substantially simultaneously using the proceeds from the transaction to execute a second trade. Such mid trade options may include 

The trading platform may include interactive control elements associated with different mid trade options which control elements may be present on the display anytime a trade is in progress and may further be associated with a display of mid trade options and related details which display may be integrated with control elements for a user to input parameters relating to a desired mid trade option and control elements for purchasing the mid trade option. For example aside the information being displayed to a user in relation to a given trade he she has in progress there may be a colored square marked insurance including a display of the current premium fee for insuring the given trade. Accordingly in this example a user may purchase insurance for the given trade for the displayed fee by clicking on the colored square.

In response to a user interacting with a control element associated with a mid trade option including the closing of a portion or all of one trade and the execution of a second trade the IS1 may substantially simultaneously execute both the closing of the portion of the original trade and the newly requested second trade.

According to some embodiments of the present invention in response to a user interacting with a control element associated with a trade identifier incl. batch or series identifiers the IS1 possibly in conjunction with the trading module may be adapted to facilitate trade of any F.I. including exotic F.I. s on any one of a selection of exchanges where said F.I. is traded. For this purpose the IS1 may be adapted to communicate through a communication application e.g. VPN etc. or an application programming interface API via the gateway with 1 a broker 2 financial institutions 3 market data providers and or 4 a trading module.

The IS1 may be further adapted to communicate possibly via the trading module trade instructions to brokers. The trading module may also be adapted to serve as a broker itself i.e. trade directly on an exchange For this purpose the trading module may be associated with one or more trading accounts maintained by a broker or directly with a F.I. exchange.

It is further noted that trades made in accordance with the teachings of this invention may be implemented in different ways such as but not limited to trading on the system without actually trading on the market building positions on a market that represent trader actions on the system ordinary trading on a market and or any combination thereof.

Actions taken by the user within the trading platform may be translated by the IS1 into trade orders which trades orders may then be performed by 1 ordering the trades from a broker and or 2 directly by the trading module. Orders for trade of Exotic F.I.s and or ordinary F.I. s may be performed by trading the same Exotic F.I.s and or ordinary F.I. s on an appropriate exchange or the IS1 possibly in conjunction with the F.I. related data analyzer and or the trading module may be further adapted to generate a set of automated trade orders e.g. buy order sell order stop order etc. collectively referred to as a trading strategy corresponding to a user input trade within the trading platform. In this case the IS1 may communicate trade instructions of other F.I. s to brokers and or the trading server so as to build positions in the market equivalent to the Exotic F.I.s and or ordinary F.I. s traded i.e. to purchase sell or otherwise trade F.I. s so that any gains or losses accrued by the user in the trade will be gained or lost in the market.

The IS1 may be further adapted to calculate the taxes owed by the user for any profits gained while trading on the system and may be even further adapted to withhold these taxes from the user s account.

While trading a user may be accorded leverage by the system based on 1 the funds he she has deposited 2 the specific Exotic F.I. or ordinary F.I. being traded 3 the quantity of the Exotic F.I. or ordinary F.I. being traded 4 the amount risked in a specific trade 5 pre defined criteria and or 6 by specific allowance from an administrator of the system or his her agent. According to further embodiments of the present invention the system may be associated with security accounts which security accounts may be dedicated to secure greater leverage from brokers when trading F.I. s via said brokers i.e. augmenting the user s deposited funds in order to obtain a larger margin . Assume for example that a broker would normally allow a trader to purchase gold for 100 for every 1 he she has as security in his her account i.e. 1 100 leverage. Therefore a user who has 50 in his her account would be able to purchase gold for up to 5 000 . Let us further assume however that the system s proprietor maintains for this purpose a large security account with the broker say 50 000 . In this situation the user of the system may be allowed to purchase gold for 200 for every 1 he she has as security in his her account i.e. 1 200 leverage. Thus a user who has 50 in his her account would be able to purchase gold for up to 10 000 with both his 50 and 50 of the system s proprietor s security account serving as security for the broker who is then still only allowing 1 100 leverage. In this fashion one security account can serve to augment the leverage of many users simultaneously. By maintaining said security account the system may be able to offer users greater leverage than is customary in the market.

The IS1 may be further adapted to create and maintain on an associated database functionally associated with the IS1 an accounts database accounts for users. The accounts database may contain for each account identifying data of the specific user the funds he she has available in his her account and possibly historical data relating to the account e.g. a transaction history. The IS1 may be adapted to update the data contained within the accounts database based on a user s activity trading on the trading platform. The IS1 may be further associated with a transaction server adapted to facilitate monetary transactions between a user and the system i.e. deposit and withdrawal of funds to from his her account.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the transaction server may be adapted to communicate over a data network with financial institutions including credit providers to facilitate transactions.

The transaction server may be further adapted to facilitate payouts to a user of a remaining balance in his her account in any known form of payment either directly or via an agent including but not limited to transferring the funds to the user s bank credit trading account with an external financial institution or credit provider.

It should be understood by one of skill in the art that some of the functions described as being performed by a specific component of the system may be performed by a different component of the system in other embodiments of this invention.

It should be understood that embodiments of the present invention relating to Exotic F.I. s could equally be implemented on ordinary F.I. s . Accordingly this description should be understood to include embodiments as described above wherein Exotic F.I.s are substituted with ordinary F.I. s .

The present invention can be practiced by employing conventional tools methodology and components. Accordingly the details of such tools component and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be recognized that the present invention might be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth.

In the description and claims of embodiments of the present invention each of the words comprise include and have and forms thereof are not necessarily limited to members in a list with which the words may be associated.

Only exemplary embodiments of the present invention and but a few examples of its versatility are shown and described in the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the present invention is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concept as expressed herein.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

