---

title: High survivability fluid flow sensor having a load cell for detecting loading on the sensor probe
abstract: A high survivability fluid flow sensor includes a sensor housing defining an interior space. A sensor probe has a first end disposed within the interior space. The sensor probe also includes a second end opposite the first end outside the interior space. At least one load cell is disposed within the interior space and is operatively engaged with the first end of the sensor probe. The load cell is configured to detect loading on the sensor probe as a result of fluid flow impinging on the sensor probe adjacent to the second end. The sensor is operable to capture fluid flow data history through an over pressure event via the sensor probe, which exerts pressure upon the piezoelectric load cell(s), thereby enabling analysis of the wave fluid dynamics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021893&OS=09021893&RS=09021893
owner: Exquadrum, Inc.
number: 09021893
owner_city: Adelanto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121210
---
The sensor disclosed herein was in part made with U.S. government support under contracts HDTRA1 08 P 0027 and HDTRA2 10 C 0001 awarded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency DTRA . The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

A sensor is provided that is operable to measure and record fluid including but not limited to gas flow direction and velocity resulting from an over pressure event including but not limited to a detonation. In particular a fluid flow sensor is provided which is operable to capture fluid flow data history through an over pressure event.

In some circumstances it is desired to capture flow direction and velocity data in the hostile flow field produced from the dynamic pressure within the rapid expansion of gas products. Such an environment is commonly produced by explosive detonations. The environment experienced during a detonation inside of a multi room structure comprises not only the shock and blast loading characterized by a very rapid release of energy but also the fragmentation from the bomb casing material and the associated fragmentation of the internal structure and its associated contents. As the expanding gas flow moves from regions of confined high pressures to lower pressures an energy wavefront from the detonation as well as physical debris in the flow field makes it difficult to use traditional clean flow instrumentation such as hot wire anemometry pitot tube or other conventional flow measurement methods. Thus there has been a need to provide a sensor capable of operating in the hostile environment of detonation events.

The flow conditions inherent during an internal structure weapon detonation event are far from ideal for existing sensor technologies. The rapid expansion of gas products cause high velocity gas movement within the multi room structure that is driven by the high to low pressure mechanism referred to as dynamic pressure. As the event unfolds the detonation shock wavefront propagates through the structure in the form of a high temperature gas flow carrying the remnants of the explosive case debris within the structure and test specific artifacts desks chairs containers shelves etc. at high speeds. Testing has demonstrated that this flow field is far from clean and contains massive amounts of high temperature gas particulates and debris. Further the hostile environment destroys sensors and produces zero visibility. It is in this extreme condition that existing traditional sensors experience shortcomings.

Dynamic pressure sensors currently in use at DTRA test facilities typically use Wheatstone bridge type circuitry to measure pressure conditions using pitot static probes such as the DTRA XCW 8WN 200 probe. This type of sensor measures along a streamline and produces unidirectional dynamic pressure for subsonic single phase flow conditions. The nature of the sensing ports makes it susceptible to contamination from particulate matter and physical damage from debris impact. To provide any level of directionality to this type of measurement system requires many such probes to be oriented in the flow with a substantial investment in calibration of the probes. Multi hole pressure probes can provide up to a 70 receptivity flow angle but require 5 7 pressure transducers to achieve that cone of flow directionality. They too suffer from the contamination and debris issues mentioned for the current pitot static tube systems and have the requirement for dry and non reactive gases.

Another suite of existing sensor technologies that initially appears attractive but suffer from the hostile environment and the zero visibility are those that use laser array attenuation particle image velocimetry or other visible tracking techniques. In addition to the technical difficulties in deploying systems of this type cost considerations necessarily preclude these solutions from being cost effective approaches.

Measuring wind speeds through the use of piezoelectric load sensors has been accomplished in the past. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 615 214 issued Oct. 7 1986 entitled Piezoelectric Wind Sensor provides an array of piezoelectric sensors mounted around the circumference of a vertical shaft as disclosed in FIGS. 1 and 2 of the patent. The shaft is forced against the sensors by the wind and by observing the direction of greatest force magnitude the direction of the wind can be determined. The speed of the wind is also determined through the force readings by inserting the largest force reading into a look up table that is calibrated to read velocity.

However many piezoelectric crystals are needed to realize a velocity vector in the 214 design and the piezoelectric components are exposed to the elements which make its use in detonation environments problematic.

In U.S. Pat. No. 4 366 718 issued Jan. 4 1983 entitled Bi Directional Flow Transducer fluid flows through a restriction core mounted in the center of cylindrical packaging. Flow impacts the restriction core and causes it to slide along the centerline of the outer casing in the direction of fluid flow. The flow restricting core deflects relative to the spring constant of the two movement restricting springs mounted on either side of it. The restriction core is attached to a probe that deflects axially along with the core. A linear differential voltage transducer LVDT senses the probe s deflection and produces an electrical profiling of the spring s contraction. However LVDTs are too large to use in sensors used to measure 2D flow fields as desired herein. In fact two units would be needed and the size of the casing would be directly proportional to how accurate the LVDTs were.

In U.S. Pat. No. 4 332 157 issued Jun. 1 1982 entitled Pyroelectric Anemometer Concept two pyroelectric sensors sandwich a heating element. In no wind conditions the heating element affects both sensors the same and each are a fluctuating median temperature. In windy conditions the upstream sensor is cooled while downstream sensor is heated due to the wind forcing more convective heat transfer from the heating element to the downstream sensor than in the no wind condition. This type of design is not applicable in sensing detonation events as heating is not an optimal means by which to gather data on explosive wind events due to their quick duration and the necessity of equilibrium. Differential temperatures between the sensors would still exist no matter how hot the explosive event but with extremely high wind temperatures the ability to measure differential temperatures diminishes and would be costly. Further this type of sensor has no ability to resolve direction.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 905 513 issued Mar. 6 1990 entitled Wind Speed Measuring Device the temperature difference between the heated coil and the casing of the sensor is measured with the difference being the change in temperature due to the wind. This differential temperature is processed to compute wind speed while wind direction is realized by processing the signals of each wire around the periphery of the cylinder and computing the direction of the largest gradient. With such a design extreme wind conditions could have adverse effect on small wires and certain processing must be dedicated to accounting for changes in ambient temperature. Accordingly fatigue and embrittlement may cause inaccurate readings over time.

In U.S. Pat. No. 3 408 855 issued on Nov. 5 1968 entitled Apparatus for determining detonation velocity of explosives a sensor is provided wherein the pressure of a detonation event collapses the conductive outer shell over a length of resistive coiled wires. The change in resistance of the wires is used to mathematically derive the velocity of air hitting the sensor. This sensor however is solely based on pressure and the effect of temperature on the resistivity of wire is not accounted for. Further the outer casing permanently collapses upon each detonation and is therefore not reusable.

A current commercial one dimensional air blast sensor being used to measure detonations is the LC33 Canadian piezoelectric instrument DTIC ADA302543 which is a pencil model which has a sensitive element consisting of a short cylinder of lead zirconate titanate with a sensitivity of 120 pc psi. Testing of this sensor has shown it to be problematic possibly due to stressing in sensitive elements. It displayed unsatisfactory performance in detonation tests conducted under the Monograph Air Blast Instrumentation MABS project.

The MQ10 British piezoelectric instrument illustrated in is another commercially available sensor. It is comprised of a quartz crystal with a hatched shaped streamline baffle and sensitivity of 100 pc psi from 1 to 70 psi. The MQ10 gage is ranged from 1 to 300 psi. It usually mounted in a concrete block flush with ground surface.

Although this gage gave the nearest approximation to true pressure time variations in blast wave of all gage types deployed in the Monograph Air Blast Instrumentation MABS project this device was not designed for multiaxial applications and post processing is thus necessary to derive wind velocity.

The commercially available KKQ American piezoelectric instrument illustrated in uses piezo electric elements to measure dynamic pressures by observing the difference in stagnation and side on pressures. This gage showed promising results in the Monograph Air Blast Instrumentation MABS tests and was the only gage presented that had the ability to directly determine wind speed. However it does not resolve direction and is in effect a piezo electric pitot static probe.

Other such devices have been patented with similar characteristics as those above. In the case of sensing wind speed from a detonation event it would be impractical to use small wires for durability reasons unless properly shielded. The extremely brief test durations would limit the possibility of thermodynamic equilibrium occurring between resistive wires and the gas flow therefore thermodynamic metal expansion is inapplicable.

A probe based sensor system that has the fidelity to measure gas flow velocity and direction yet survive the hostile environment of a detonation event would be desirable.

A high survivability fluid flow sensor is described that is operable to measure and record fluid flow direction and velocity resulting from an over pressure event. The over pressure event can be produced by but is not limited to a detonation i.e. explosion or other events associated with a very rapid release of energy. The fluid flow sensor is particularly suited for use with flows of gas resulting from the over pressure event. But the fluid flow sensor can be used with any fluids.

In one embodiment a dynamic pressure induced fluid flow sensor is provided that includes a sensor housing defining an interior space and a sensor cap disposed on the sensor housing and closing the interior space the sensor cap having a probe port formed therein. A sensor probe has a first end mounted to the sensor housing and is disposed within the interior space. The sensor probe also includes a second end opposite the first end and extending away from the sensor cap outside the interior space where it is exposed to the fluid flow environment. The sensor probe extends through the probe port in the sensor cap. At least one load cell is disposed within the interior space and is operatively engaged with the first end of the sensor probe. The load cell is configured to detect loading on the sensor probe as a result of fluid flow impinging on the exposed portion of the sensor probe adjacent to the second end.

In another embodiment a one dimensional 1D high survivability fluid flow sensor is provided having a somewhat similar construction. However the 1D sensor constrains the fluid flow measurement along only one axis and can contain as few as one load cell and two load transfer blocks.

The gas flow sensor which can also be referred to as a CCG is generally comprised of a sensor probe which rests in a sensor housing four piezoelectric load cells four load transfer blocks which act to place the load cells in communication with the sensor housing and a sensor cap which protects the interior space of the sensor housing from debris.

As shown in in one embodiment the outer surface of the sensor probe adjacent to a first end thereof is machined to have at least four flat surfaces thereby providing flat surfaces for interaction with the load cells . The flat surfaces are in contact for example direct contact with the load cells . Cutting the flat surfaces as close as possible to parallel and perpendicular allows for a proper load transmission to the load cells and gives the best performance. The sensor probe can be formed of a high strength metallic compound such as tungsten carbide thus enabling it to withstand high pressure detonations and providing it with high survivability characteristics. Unlike previous designs this new design allows the sensor probe to be relatively short in length while still providing sufficient sensitivity.

In one embodiment a high tolerance hole not illustrated is machined into the bottom of the sensor probe adjacent to the first end thereof to accept a boss on the sensor housing see . The boss interface will support the probe equally in all flow directions preventing deflection that could cause improper loading of the load cells . In the illustrated embodiment the boss is disposed on or adjacent to the vertical axis of the sensor housing for example by being machined into the center of the sensor housing .

The load cells can be any piezoelectric type load cells. For example Applicant has found that suitable load cells can include but are not limited to Kistler 9132B load cells available from Kistler Group of Winterthur Switzerland. The load cells are disposed with the load blocks within the interior space of the housing . The load cells include cabling that is routed through openings formed at the base of the housing see .

With reference to the sensor load blocks are designed to both orient and preload the piezoelectric load cells . A boss is located on each of the sensor load blocks that aligns with a hole in the respective load cell . The boss prevents lateral movement of the load cells during installation. The sensor load blocks and the load cells are preloaded using off the shelf flat end set screws that are threaded into threaded openings formed in the sensor housing . The openings are formed on flat surfaces formed on an outer perimeter illustrated as being generally circular of the sensor housing . Similar flat surfaces are formed opposite the flat surface on an inner perimeter illustrated as being generally circular of the sensor housing . The ends of the set screws engage with the sides of the load blocks opposite the bosses to apply a force to the load blocks which in turn allows application of a preload to the load cells . Optionally the load blocks can include recesses for receiving ends of the set screws .

The sensor housing is the element of the CCG with the highest complexity. The housing houses the sensor probe the load cells and the sensor load blocks as well as providing support for the sensor probe. The housing can be sized to fit inside a DTRA small gage port in a low profile type installation to be flush with a test facility wall. As shown in the sensor cap is mounted to the sensor housing adjacent to the top surface thereof using fasteners such as screws that extend through openings formed through the housing and thread into openings formed in a ledge a similar ledge is visible in within the gage port . The sensor cap also includes a probe port formed therein through which a second end of the sensor probe extends to perform its sensing function in a manner similar to that discussed below for . The sensor cap also helps to protect the load cells from debris.

In use of the sensor a high pressure fluid is generated from a detonation or other over pressure creating event that impacts the probe and deflects the second end . The probe by virtue of the high stiffness of its formed material transfers the deflection to the force sensors . As the fluid flows around the exposed end of the probe the force sensors react the deflection through the sensor load blocks into the housing resolving the direction and velocity of the fluid flow into two dimensions. Opposing force sensors at the first end of the probe work in a near equal and opposite manner and are superimposed electrically to provide force data on each of two dimensions or flow axes. The force data from opposing force sensors constitute the data that can be added vectorally to produce a final flow vector or in other words the fluid flow direction and velocity.

One way in that the sensor differs from the sensor is that each of the load blocks includes a boss that fits within an opening formed in the respective load cell . The bosses prevent lateral movement of the load cells relative to the load transfer blocks .

In this embodiment the sensor also includes a deflection ramp that is secured to the top of the housing by the cap and the fasteners . The deflection ramp is configured to shield the interior space and deflect debris during an over pressure event. In the illustrated example the deflection ramp has a frustoconical shape. However the ramp can have any shape that achieves the shielding and deflection functions.

The sensor also includes a collet sleeve that in use is disposed within the housing . When assembled the collet sleeve surrounds the sensor probe the load cells and the support blocks for applying a pre load to the support blocks . The pre load is changed by increasing or decreasing the diameter of the collet.

As shown in the collet sleeve has an exterior tapered ramp surface that is engageable with a tapered ramp surface formed inside the housing . By forcing the collet sleeve in a longitudinal direction i.e. axially within the housing the ramp surface engages with the ramp surface . As the collet sleeve is forced axially downward the engagement between the ramp surfaces reduces the diameter of the collet sleeve thereby increasing the pre load force. As the collet sleeve is forced axially upward the engagement between the ramp surfaces is reduced allowing the diameter of the collet sleeve to increase thereby decreasing the pre load force.

The collet sleeve is forced to move axially within the housing via a threaded pre load nut that is threaded onto the base of the collet sleeve . Rotation of the pre load nut in one direction pulls the collet sleeve down into the housing forcing the ramp surfaces into engagement and causing the collet to tighten uniformly on the four load transfer support blocks and subsequently tightening onto the probe through the load cells . Rotation of the pre load nut in the opposite direction forces the collet sleeve upward into the housing reducing the pinching force caused by the ramp surfaces and allowing the diameter of the collet sleeve to increase to reduce the clamping force on the load transfer support blocks .

The base end of the sensor probe is supported in a probe support sleeve which is retained by a lock nut providing a vertical support during assembly and a pivot point for the probe. The probe support sleeve is notched to allow for routing of the load cell cabling.

With reference to an exemplary embodiment of a one dimensional 1D sensor is illustrated. In the sensor the sensor probe is designed to only allow one axis of motion. In this embodiment this was accomplished by a set of load transfer blocks that precluded the probe from moving laterally relative to the load sensor. However this is inadequate for the sensor because the sensor probe needs to communicate a full 360 degrees of motion onto at least two or perhaps more load cells which are required to resolve the wind velocity vector.

In particular this embodiment of the sensor is illustrated as including a sensor housing having an interior space . The sensor housing is generally rectangular with a rectangular outer perimeter and an inner perimeter defining the interior space. A sensor cap is fixed to the top of the housing by fasteners such as screws to close the top of the housing.

A sensor probe extends through a probe port formed in the sensor cap and into the interior space . The lower end of the probe is pivotally secured within the interior space by a pin extending through an opening at the base of the sensor probe . The upper end of the probe extends away from the housing where it can be exposed to moving air as shown in .

In addition disposed perpendicular to the axis of the pin is a load transfer block that is engaged with what can be termed as a pre load side of the probe to apply a pre load force to the probe . A set screw or other pre load mechanism is used to force the block into engagement with the probe to permit application of the pre load. The end of the load transfer block engaged with the probe is provided with a concavity which permits better engagement between the block and the probe surface.

Another load transfer block is disposed opposite the load transfer block . The block is engaged with what can be termed as the sensor or reaction side of the probe . Like the block the block is provided with a concavity which permits better engagement between the block and the probe . A force sensor is disposed between the block and a wall of the housing to detect force caused by deflections of the end of the probe that extends upwardly from the housing . An example of a suitable sensor is a Kistler 9101A sensor available from Kistler Group of Winterthur Switzerland. A suitable mechanism for example a shoulder bolt extends through the wall of housing through a hole in the sensor an into engagement with the block . The mechanism keeps the block the sensor and the wall of the housing engaged with one another for accurate pressure readings.

In operation of the sensor a high pressure fluid that is generated from a detonation or other over pressure creating event impacts the probe and deflects the probe. The probe by virtue of the high stiffness of its formed material transfers the deflection to the force sensor .

A sensor probe extends through a probe port formed in the sensor cap and into the interior space . The lower end of the probe is pivotally secured within the interior space by one or more conically tipped pins that seat in recesses at the base of the sensor probe . The lower end of the probe is secured from lateral motion by opposing set screws The upper end of the probe extends away from the housing where it can be exposed to moving air as shown in .

In addition disposed perpendicular to the axis of the pivot axis is a load transfer block that is engaged with the side of the probe to apply a pre load force to the probe . A pre load mechanism for example a set screw having a centering boss is used to force the block into engagement with the probe to permit application of the pre load. The end of the load transfer block engaged with the probe is provided with a flat surface that engages one of the flat surfaces similar to the flat surfaces on the probe . A force sensor is disposed between the block and pre load mechanism and the wall of the housing to detect force caused by deflections of the end of the probe that extends upwardly from the housing.

Another load transfer block is disposed opposite the load transfer block . The block is engaged with the opposite side of the probe . Like the block the block is provided with a flat surface that engages with the opposite flat surface . A second force sensor is disposed between the block and a wall of the housing to detect force caused by deflections of the end of the probe that extends upwardly from the housing. An example of a suitable sensor is a Kistler 9101A sensor available from Kistler Group of Winterthur Switzerland. A suitable mechanism for example a shoulder bolt extends through the wall of housing through a hole in the sensor an into engagement with the block . The mechanism keeps the block the sensor and the wall of the housing engaged with one another for accurate pressure readings.

In this embodiment a high pressure fluid is generated from a detonation or other over pressure creating event that impacts the probe and deflects the flat surface . The probe by virtue of the high stiffness of its formed material transfers the deflection to the force sensors . As the fluid flows around the probe the force sensors react the deflection through the sensor load blocks into the housing measuring the direction and velocity of the fluid flow in one dimension. The opposing force sensors on the probe work in a near equal and opposite manner and are superimposed electrically to provide force data in one dimension or flow axis. The force data from the opposing force sensors constitute the data that can be added mathematically to produce the fluid flow direction and velocity.

Although specific embodiments have been disclosed herein those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the scope of the invention is not to be restricted to the specific disclosed embodiments. Furthermore it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the disclosure.

