---

title: Snap to content in display
abstract: The present disclosure provides methods and systems for managing viewable content on a display. In some implementations, the method includes displaying content on the display, monitoring scrolling activity of a user and selectively centering a portion of the content on the display based on the scrolling activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595644&OS=08595644&RS=08595644
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08595644
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120915
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 069 974 filed Mar. 23 2011 that claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 938 694 filed on Nov. 12 2007 and patented on Apr. 26 2011 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 934 166 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to methods and systems for managing content viewable in a display and more particularly to snapping to content in a display.

As the quantity of available information on computer networks has increased and as users have become accustomed to accessing this information through fixed computing devices such as a desktop personal computer permanently connected to an appropriately provisioned network and laptop computing devices having either a wired or wireless connection to a network users have demanded access to the same information through their mobile devices. Specifically users now expect to be able to access stock quotes baseball scores restaurant listings and the like including accurate network search results from their mobile devices.

Mobile devices typically include a graphical user interface GUI such as a display. The display enables a user to visually interact with the mobile device and to read information from the mobile device. For example the user can navigate Internet websites and can view information in the form of website content on the display. In another example a user can open a document including but not limited to a Microsoft MS Word document and or an Adobe Acrobat document pdf . The content that is accessible using the mobile device can include various forms. Text figures diagrams pictures and the like are examples of visual website content.

As mobile devices become more popular manufacturers endeavor to reduce the size of the mobile devices. As the size of the mobile devices decreases the display size can also be reduced. Consequently the amount of content that is viewable on the display at one time is correspondingly reduced.

This document discloses methods techniques and systems for managing content that is viewable in a display. In some implementations the methods include displaying content on the display monitoring scrolling activity of a user and selectively centering a portion of the content on the display based on the scrolling activity.

In other aspects some implementations can further include scanning the content and determining whether the portion of content includes margins that would be concurrently viewable if the portion of content were to be centered. The step of selectively centering occurs if the margins of the portion of content would be concurrently viewable. The step of selectively centering does not occur if the margins of the portion of the content would not be concurrently viewable. In another aspect the portion of content can include a paragraph and the margins can include left and right margins of the paragraph.

In other aspects some implementations can include determining whether the user scrolls the content from a first position to a second position and determining whether the user scrolls the content from the second position back to the first position. The step of selectively centering occurs if the user scrolls the content from the second position back to the first position. The first position can be separated from the second position by a single scroll step.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The present disclosure is directed to various implementations of methods and systems for managing viewable content on a display. More specifically various implementations of centering or snapping content on a display are described. Such implementations enable a user to more easily view content on the display improving the users interaction with the display. Although the methods and systems are described with reference to the display of a mobile device it is appreciated that these methods and systems can apply to any type of display mobile or otherwise.

Referring now to an exemplary display is illustrated. The display displays a web page of viewable content including but not limited to text and pictures. The exemplary content of includes content from an exemplary news website provided by Google . The content is provided as both text and pictures in the form of hypertext markup language HTML for example. HTML is a predominant markup language for websites and enables the structure of text based information in a document to be described by denoting certain text as headings paragraphs and the like. HTML can supplement the text with interactive forms embedded images and other objects. HTML can also describe the appearance of the website and can include embedded scripting language code which can affect the behavior of web browsers and other HTML processors.

Only a portion of the news web page illustrated in is viewable in the display at any one time. The viewable portion that is illustrated includes title text a topic column and a portion of an article summary or paragraph . In the exemplary illustration the topic Top Stories is selected and a portion of a summary paragraph of one of the top stories is viewable. A user may select another topic such as U.S. Business Sci Tech Sports Entertainment Health or Most Popular for example. It is appreciated that the topics described herein are merely exemplary topics.

In order to view content that is off of the display the user must scroll the web page on the display . A horizontal scrollbar and a vertical scrollbar are provided which enable the user to scroll the web page on the display . The horizontal scrollbar includes a tab that is movable in the horizontal direction X to reveal additional content. The vertical scrollbar includes a tab that is movable in the vertical direction Y to reveal additional content. The tabs can initially be provided in a home position. illustrates an exemplary home position where the tab is in the left most position indicated as position A and the tab is in the upper most position as viewed in . In the exemplary home position of the upper left corner of the web page is the starting point for scrolling of the web page in either the horizontal direction X or vertical direction Y.

As the user scrolls in the horizontal direction X and or vertical direction Y previously non viewable content is revealed and previously viewable content is scrolled from view. For example the content of includes the paragraph only a portion of which is initially viewable. As the user scrolls the web page the tab moves from the home or first position A to a second position B . The web page scrolls to the right by a predetermined amount. This predetermined amount can be referred to as a scroll resolution. The scroll resolution can be a predefined amount that is provided by the particular web page browser or program which is used to display the content. For example the scroll resolution can be predefined as Z pixels per scroll position change. As a result when the web page is scrolled and the tab moves from position A to position B Z pixels of previously non viewable content are moved into view on the right hand edge of the display and Z pixels of previously viewable content are moved out of view on the left hand edge of the display as viewed in . A scroll from position A to position B is a single step scroll. In some implementations the scroll resolution for the horizontal direction X and the vertical direction Y can be equivalent. In other implementations the scroll resolution for the horizontal direction X and vertical direction Y can be different.

With particular reference to the content of the paragraph beginning at a left hand margin thereof is initially viewable when the tab is in position B see . If the web page is again scrolled to the right the content of the paragraph ending at a right hand margin becomes viewable when the tab is in position C see . A scroll from position B to position C is a single step scroll whereas a scroll from position A to position C is a multi step scroll. The previously viewable content towards the left hand margin is scrolled from view. Because the scroll resolution is too great the entire paragraph between the left hand and right hand margins is not viewable at any one time. To read the content of the paragraph the user would traditionally scroll the web page back and forth where the tab moves back and forth between positions B and C.

The viewable content manager of the present disclosure monitors the scrolling activity of a user and determines whether the user is repeatedly scrolling back and forth to view content. If the user is repeatedly scrolling and there is content the left to right margins of which could be viewed on the display that content is centered on the display . Using the exemplary web page of a user may scroll back and forth to view the left hand and right hand margins of the paragraph as the user reads the paragraph . The viewable content manager monitors the scrolling activity of the user and recognizes that the user is scrolling between positions B and C or close approximations of positions B and C of the tab . The viewable content manager scans the content and can determine that the user is reading the paragraph . This determination can be based on the fact that the paragraph may be the only content the left hand and the right hand margins of which are intermittently viewable as the tab moves from position B to position C.

With reference to the viewable content manager centers the paragraph on the display if it determines that the entire paragraph between the left hand and right hand margins can fit within the display . As a result the tab is located in position D which is between positions B and C. The user is then able to read the entire paragraph from the left hand margin to the right hand margin without having to scroll back and forth. The user can scroll downward moving the tab to further read the paragraph . Once the user has read the paragraph or otherwise decides to further navigate the web page the user can scroll the web page as desired. If however there is no content that could be centered scrolling of the web page operates as normal.

As a note single step scrolls are monitored as an indication that the user is viewing specific content. For example multi step scrolls can indicate that the user is scrolling through the content without focusing on or reading specific portions of the content. Additionally multi step scrolls can indicate that a specific portion of the content that the user is reading can not be centered. For example if the user must scroll more than once to reach the left hand margin of a paragraph he is reading that paragraph can not be centered in the display.

At the web page and it s content that is partially viewable on the display is scanned. At it is determined whether there is partially viewable content having left hand and right hand margins that would be completely viewable if centered. If there is no content on the web page that would be completely viewable if centered the process loops back to . If there is content that would be completely viewable if centered that content is centered at .

Other implementations of processes that may be executed by the viewable content manager are also contemplated. For example a counter can count the number of times the user scrolls back and forth in the first and second directions e.g. between positions B and C of the tab . If the count exceeds a threshold value the scanning and centering steps of process are executed. In this manner the content is not centered until the user has scrolled back and forth a threshold number of times.

The various implementations of a viewable content manager described above are exemplary in nature. Such implementations are not limited to viewing a web page for example. Such implementations are equally applicable to viewing any type of content on a display. For example the viewable content manager can be used with documents from a word processor including but not limited to Word WordPerfect and Open Office as well as with documents form a spreadsheet program including but not limited to Excel Lotus 1 2 3 Borland Quattro Open Office Calc or portable document format PDF documents from Adobe . In short the viewable content manager can be implemented with any content that is viewable on a display regardless of the particular program that provides the content or format of the content.

It is also contemplated that the viewable content manager can be modified to accommodate a written format that is particular to the language of the content for example. More specifically text can be written in any language. Some languages including but not limited to English French Spanish and German are read from left to right top to bottom. The exemplary implementation of the viewable content manager discussed with reference to is described using a language that is read from left to right top to bottom. Other languages can be read differently. Some languages including but not limited to Hebrew and Arabic are read from right to left top to bottom. Still other languages including but not limited to Chinese are read from top to bottom right to left. In the case of a language that is read from top to bottom right to left the viewable content manager can center content the top margin and bottom margin of which fit within the viewable area of the display.

Those skilled in the art recognize that the viewable content manager of the present disclosure can be implemented in any device that displays content on a display. The viewable content manager however provides particular advantages in displays of reduced size such as the display of a mobile device. Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary mobile device that implements the viewable content manager is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to generate content on the mobile device to recognize when the user is repeatedly scrolling to view particular content and to center the content if the reading margins of the content can be concurrently viewed.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying content e.g. text images and video to the user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device includes an external antenna it is contemplated that the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display displays video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that presents the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for automatic cropping of an image. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 respectively when pressed in combination with key for example. A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 3000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wireline computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wireline or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wireline connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wireline connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . The camera may also be associated with software to perform various functions on captured images such as identification of certain portions of an image to permit for cropping of those portions from the image.

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU is one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some implementations the computer program product includes instructions that generate content on the display that recognize when the user is repeatedly scrolling to view particular content and that center the content if the reading margins of the content can be concurrently viewed.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE ANDROID operating system APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTO widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for automatic cropping of an image using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver an M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 5 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joing Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library a LWClibrary a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime which generally makes up a Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format . as well as unmodified files including but not limited to JAVA files . . . With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format . is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries which generally make up the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs includes a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications which generally make up the MIDP applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a content manager .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

The persistent core system services such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager are hosted by system processes although application processes such processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent. The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the library and content manager processes associated with the content manager application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine and processes associated with the library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LWCprocesses associated with the LWClibrary and processes associated with the library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

While illustrate one possible implementation of a computing system that executes program code or program or process steps configured to effectuate viewable content management other types of devices and operating systems may also be used as well.

A number of implementations of the viewable content manager have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

