---

title: Methods and apparatus for signal conditioning in OFDMA systems
abstract: Methods and systems for conditioning an orthogonal frequency division multiplex (OFDM) signal are disclosed. The OFDM signal may be conditioned prior to transmission by a transmitter in an orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) system operating on a channel with a plurality of subcarriers grouped into subchannels. The OFDM signal may be clipped based on a desired peak-to-average-power ratio (PAPR) to produce a clipped-off portion of the OFDM signal. The clipped-off portion of the OFDM signal may be transformed into the frequency domain to produce a frequency-domain signal. An in-band spectral shaping mask may be applied to subcarriers or subchannels of the frequency-domain signal within the channel to control the levels of distortion on the individual subcarriers or subchannels. The shaped frequency-domain signal is transformed into the time domain to produce a time-domain signal. A conditioned signal is produced for transmission by subtracting the time-domain signal from the OFDM signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363123&OS=09363123&RS=09363123
owner: Neocific, Inc.
number: 09363123
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120307
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 595 551 filed Feb. 6 2012 the contents of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate in general to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA communication systems and in particular to signal processing for conditioning signals to be transmitted to increase transmission efficiency in an OFDMA communications system.

In a multi carrier communication system such as an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA system the communicated signal consists of multiple subcarriers also termed tones that are transformed through a certain type of linear transformation e.g. an inverse Fourier transform into time signals. One of the distinctive characteristics of a multi carrier signal in the time domain is that its peak to average power ratio PAPR is undesirably high. To transmit a high PAPR signal without significantly distorting its integrity the transmitter circuitry has to operate in a linear region which is normally realized by ensuring the average output signal level of the power amplifier PA lower than the PA s 1 dB compression point by a large amount a process called back off . There are some drawbacks for back off. For example the PA operates at a low efficiency thereby consuming a significant amount of power. This is especially undesirable for a device that has a limited power supply.

To increase the transmission efficiency thereby lowering the power consumption one has to address the root of the problem which is the high level of PAPR.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention methods and systems for conditioning an orthogonal frequency division multiplex OFDM signal are disclosed. The OFDM signal may be conditioned prior to transmission by a transmitter in an orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA system operating on a channel with a plurality of subcarriers grouped into subchannels. A truncated version of the OFDM signal may be generated by truncating peaks in the OFDM signal in the time domain based on a desired peak to average power ratio PAPR . The truncated version of the OFDM signal may be transformed into the frequency domain. An in band spectral shaping mask may be applied to subcarriers within the channel to control the level of in band spectral regrowth in said truncated version of said OFDM signal. The shaped frequency domain OFDM signal may be transformed into the time domain to produce a conditioned signal for transmission.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Methods and apparatus for conditioning the signal to be transmitted in an OFDM OFDMA communication system are disclosed. Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the disclosure. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the disclosure without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the disclosure and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this disclosure.

The terminology used in the description presented below is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the disclosure e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

In some embodiments of this disclosure a signal conditioner is inserted in between the IFFT and the radio transmitter. The signal conditioner is controlled by the media access control MAC layer. The signal conditioner consists of the necessary linear or nonlinear components to carry out the required functions. The control information to the signal conditioner can be supplied by the MAC layer or by other means.

In some embodiments multiple signal conditioners may be used in systems with multiple transmitters antennas.

In some embodiments the spectral shaping mask can be set to control the level of spectral regrowth for each individual subcarrier. The allowable levels of spectral regrowth at the subcarriers are determined based on the attributes associated with the subcarriers the mobile stations MS s and or the system.

The following discussion contemplates the application of the disclosed technology to a multi carrier system such as Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA or Multi Carrier Code Division Multiple Access MC CDMA . The invention can be applied to either Time Division Duplexing TDD or Frequency Division Duplexing FDD . Without loss of generality OFDMA is therefore only used as an example to illustrate the present technology.

The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for various embodiments of the technology. One skilled in the art will understand that the technology may be practiced without these details. In some instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the technology. It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain embodiments of the technology. Although certain terms may be emphasized below any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

In a wireless communication system with base stations BS s and mobile stations MS s the transmission from a BS to a MS is called a downlink DL transmission and the transmission from a mobile device to a base station is called an uplink UL transmission.

The transmitter comprises a channel encoding and modulation component which applies data bit randomization forward error correction FEC encoding interleaving and modulation to an input data signal. The channel encoding and modulation component is coupled to a subchannel and symbol construction component an inverse fast Fourier transform IFFT component a signal conditioner component a radio transmitter component and an antenna . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these components construct and transmit a communication signal containing the data that is input to the transmitter. Other forms of transmitters may of course be used depending on the requirements of the communication network.

The receiver comprises an antenna a reception component a frame and symbol synchronization component a fast Fourier transform component a subchannel demodulation component and a channel decoding component . The channel decoding component de interleaves decodes and derandomizes a signal that is received by the receiver. The receiver recovers data from the signal and outputs the data for use by the mobile device or base station. Other forms of receivers may of course be used depending on the requirements of the communication network.

To deal with the high level of PAPR in an OFDMA signal the peaks in the time domain are often clipped to a certain level. The effect of clipping is that the unwanted energy or distortion will emerge within and without the bandwidth in the frequency domain i.e. in band distortion and out of band spectral regrowth . Filtering can be applied to suppress the out of band regrowth to meet the transmission spectral mask. The in band distortion however degrades the SNR of all the subcarriers or subchannels used by the MS and other MS s.

In some embodiments in this invention a signal conditioner may be inserted between the IFFT and the radio transmitter. The signal conditioner may be controlled by the MAC. The signal conditioner may consist of transformers filters adders truncating devices buffers delays and other linear or nonlinear devices. In an embodiment the information such as the desired PAPR level and spectral shaping requirement is an input to the signal conditioner. The information can be supplied by the MAC layer or by other means.

In the UL transmission in an OFDMA system an MS is often allocated a fraction of the total subchannels to use. In these cases this partial usage of bandwidth by an MS can be exploited to condition the signals to be transmitted to increase the transmission efficiency.

In some embodiments the signal conditioner of an MS limits the PAPR of the signal to be transmitted by clipping or truncating the peaks in the time domain while controlling the level of spectral regrowth of the frequency domain signal by spectral shaping. In the clipping process a limiting threshold A is used to limit the amplitude of a signal s t s t eto meet a PAPR requirement. Without changing the phase of the signal the amplitude of the signal at time t is limited such that

1. Truncating any peak in the time domain signal that exceeds the required level to the required level after IFFT 

Control information may be supplied to the truncation module and the shaping module from the MAC layer or otherwise. The spectral shaping mask as depicted in may be designed to

In effect the in band spectral shaping can be applied to individual subcarriers or subchannels with different requirements for different subcarriers or subchannels.

In some embodiments the signal conditioner carries out the signal conditioning process to exert control over the spectral regrowth in all subcarriers. The process as shown in is as follows 

Relevant information may be supplied to the truncation module and the shaping module from the MAC layer or otherwise. The spectral shaping mask as depicted in may be designed to

In an embodiment the signal conditioner may be configured with additional components to implement an iterative loop to enhance the signal conditioning process as shown in 

Whether an additional iteration is required is determined by whether the resulting signal at Step 8 meets the required PAPR that is if the PAPR requirement is met no additional iteration is necessary otherwise an additional iteration is required. Furthermore the number of iterations can be limited to a specified number.

In another embodiment the signal conditioner may be configured that only one FFT IFFT engine is needed as shown in . The process is as follows 

In other embodiments in cases where multiple transmitters antennas are used e.g. multiple input multiple output MIMO or beamforming multiple signal conditioners may be used. A conditioner may be used in each transmitter as depicted in . A conditioner may be shared by multiple transmitters by time multiplexing. A conditioner may be integrated with the transmitter. Multiple conditioners may be integrated together.

In more embodiments the spectral shaping mask can be set to control the level of spectral regrowth for each individual subcarrier such that the effective SNR of this particular subcarrier will not fall below a specified level. The allowable level of spectral regrowth at a subcarrier or subchannel used by the MS may be determined based on the attributes associated with that subcarrier or subchannel such as 

The allowable level of spectral regrowth at a subcarrier used by another MS may be determined based on the attributes associated with that subcarrier and that MS such as 

5. the information that carried by the subcarrier pilots ranging signals control channel information data etc. and or

The allowable level of spectral regrowth at a subcarrier used by the system e.g. pilot subcarriers common to a group or all of the MS s in a cell may be determined based on the attributes associated with that subcarrier such as 

The information for the attributes may be provided by the BS to the transmitting MS explicitly or implicitly via a header preamble a control channel data message or any subdivision of frequency time resource allocated for the transmission of the information. The transmitting MS may also determine the attributes through processing the received signal.

In another embodiment the spectral shaping mask provided by the MAC or otherwise can vary from one OFDM symbol to the next from one time slot to the next or from one time frame to the next.

Referring to operation begins the operational procedure and in operation the OFDM signal is clipped in the time domain to product a clipped off portion of said OFDM signal. In one embodiment the clipping is based on a desired peak to average power ratio PAPR .

In operation the clipped off portion of said OFDM signal is transformed into the frequency domain to produce a frequency domain signal.

In operation an in band spectral shaping mask is applied to individual subcarriers or subchannels of the frequency domain signal within the channel to control levels of in band distortion on the individual subcarriers or subchannels. In some embodiments a different allowable in band distortion level is allowed for a different subcarrier or subchannel. Additionally and optionally the allowable in band distortion level on a subcarrier or subchannel may be determined based on attributes associated with the said subcarrier or subchannel the attributes comprising 

In some embodiments the allowable in band distortion level is proportional to a robust level of a MCS on a subcarrier or subchannel. The allowable in band distortion level is correlated with a transmit power level for a subcarrier or subchannel. The allowable in band distortion level on a subcarrier or subchannel carrying control a signal is lower than the allowable level of in band distortion on a subcarrier or subchannel carrying data. The allowable level of in band distortion on a subcarrier or subchannel used by the transmitter to transmit data is lower than the allowable level of in band distortion on a subcarrier or subchannel not used by the transmitter.

In other embodiments the in band spectral shaping mask may vary from OFDM symbol to OFDM symbol from time slot to time slot or time frame to time frame.

In operation the shaped frequency domain signal is transformed into the time domain to produce a time domain signal.

In operation a conditioned signal is produced for transmission by subtracting the time domain signal from said OFDM signal. In some embodiments it is determined if an additional iteration of conditioning is required for the conditioned signal. Furthermore in some embodiments a transmission mask is applied to out of band frequency components of said frequency domain signal.

Lastly while the present disclosure has been described in connection with the preferred aspects as illustrated in the various figures it is understood that other similar aspects may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described aspects for performing the same function of the present disclosure without deviating there from. For example in various aspects of the disclosure methods and systems for communicating in a wireless communications system were disclosed. However other equivalent mechanisms to these described aspects are also contemplated by the teachings herein. Therefore the present disclosure should not be limited to any single aspect but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

