---

title: Blue-light inducible system for gene expression
abstract: The present invention provides methods for light-dependent gene regulation using a light-responsive DNA-binding protein. Also provided are related nucleic acid molecules, and protein molecules, such as those encoding or comprising the light-responsive DNA-binding protein or DNA-binding sites recognizing the light-responsive DNA-binding protein. Kits using the present light-dependent gene regulation system are further provided by the present invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09506073&OS=09506073&RS=09506073
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09506073
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121116
---
This application is a 371 National Stage Entry of PCT US2012 065493 filed Nov. 16 2012 which claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 561 585 filed on Nov. 18 2011 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with United States government support under grant number R01 GM081875 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States government has certain rights in the invention.

The sequence listing that is contained in the file named UTSW004WO ST25.txt which is 44 kilobytes as measured in Microsoft Windows operating system and was created on Nov. 15 2012 is filed electronically herewith and incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of molecular biology. More specifically the invention relates to methods and compositions regarding light responsive proteins and nucleic acids for gene expression.

The ability to artificially control gene expression in eukaryotic cells is essential for many applications in basic molecular biology including cell biology biochemical or biomedical research. Most currently available gene regulatory systems are based on chemical inducer molecules e.g. tetracycline that must enter a cell to bind a target protein and activate its transcriptional activity. Such systems generally have downsides that include the need for the addition of a small chemical inducer and typically an inability to turn gene expression on and off rapidly.

In one aspect the invention provides a recombinant nucleic acid molecule comprising a sequence encoding a light responsive DNA binding protein LRDP comprising a a LOV domain and b a DNA binding domain DBD wherein said LOV domain and DBD are from a homologous species and wherein said sequence encoding said LRDP is operatively linked to a polynucleotide encoding a heterologous transcriptional activation domain. In one embodiment the LRDP is an EL222 LOV LRDP.

In another aspect the invention provides a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule of the present invention for instance comprising a sequence encoding a LRDP wherein the LRDP comprises a LOV domain and a DNA binding domain from a homologous species operatively linked to a polynucleotide encoding a heterologous transcription activation domain. In a particular aspect the invention provides a cell comprising such a polypeptide.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a recombinant nucleic acid molecule comprising an EL222 binding consensus sequence operably linked to a heterologous transcribable polynucleotide sequence. In one embodiment the DNA binding site comprises a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 4 66. In yet another embodiment the transcribable polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the EL222 binding consensus sequence is selected from the group consisting of a reporter sequence a cell stress tolerance sequence an industrial enzyme encoding sequence a sequence encoding a biofuel production enzyme a sequence encoding a cell lysis protein and a sequence encoding a cell regulatory protein.

In still another aspect the invention provides a cell comprising a recombinant nucleic acid molecule of the invention comprising an EL222 binding consensus sequence operably linked to a heterologous transcribable polynucleotide.

Also provided by the invention is a cell or multicellular organism comprising a nucleic acid molecule of the invention comprising a LRDP encoding sequence comprising a LOV domain and a DNA binding domain from a homologous species operatively linked to a polynucleotide encoding a heterologous transcription activation domain. In one embodiment such a cell or multicellular organism of the invention further comprises a recombinant nucleic acid molecule comprising an EL222 binding consensus sequence operably linked to a heterologous transcribable polynucleotide sequence. In another embodiment a cell or multicellular organism of the invention may also comprise a second nucleic acid molecule comprising a DNA binding site for said DNA binding domain operably linked to a heterologous transcribable polynucleotide sequence. In certain embodiments a cell or multicellular organism of the present invention may be selected from the group consisting of a bacterial cell yeast cell animal cell mammalian cell insect cell fungal cell and plant cell.

In a particular aspect the invention provides a method of activating transcription in a cell comprising illuminating a cell of the invention with blue light. In one embodiment transcription in the cell is activated by at least 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 or 110 relative to transcription in the absence of blue light. In another aspect the invention provides a method of inactivating blue light induced transcription comprising diminishing blue light exposure to a cell of the invention.

In one aspect the present invention provides a method of identifying high affinity DNA binding sites for a light responsive DNA binding protein LRDP comprising a LOV domain and a DNA binding domain DBD wherein said LOV domain and DBD are from a homologous species wherein said method comprises a incubating a polypeptide comprising a LOV domain and said DNA binding domain with a plurality of different polynucleotide sequences in the presence of blue light b removing said blue light and c identifying polynucleotide sequences bound to said DNA binding domain in the presence of blue light and released from said DNA binding domain in the absence of blue light wherein said identifying comprises isolating and sequencing said polynucleotide sequences bound to said DNA binding domain in the presence of blue light and released from said DNA binding domain in the absence of blue light whereby a high affinity DNA binding site is identified. In one embodiment the plurality of different polynucleotide sequences are distributed on an array and said identifying comprises determining the identity of said polynucleotide sequences bound to said DNA binding domain in the presence of blue light and released from said DNA binding domain in the absence of blue light on said array. In another embodiment the polypeptide is immobilized on a surface. In yet another embodiment the LRDP used in the above method comprises at least one LRDP variant and or may be operably linked to a detection moiety. Such detection moieties may be selected from the group consisting of isotopic label and optically detectable label such as a fluorescent protein green fluorescent protein variants or enzymatic labels. In another embodiment the LRDP comprises a sequence encoding an EL222 LRDP variant comprising altered blue light responsiveness as compared to wild type EL222 LRDP.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of recruiting proteins to a surface in a light dependent manner comprising a coating the surface with DNA binding sequence molecules b exposing the surface to a light responsive DNA binding protein LRDP and c exposing the surface to blue light. In one embodiment the LRDP of the above method may be linked to a second polypeptide. Said method may optionally further comprise the step of d detecting the second polypeptide. In certain embodiments the second polypeptide may be linked to a detection moiety for instance an isotopic label or optically detectable label such as a green fluorescent protein green fluorescent protein variants and enzymatic labels. In another embodiment the DNA binding sequence molecules may comprise distinct variant sequences and or may be coated onto the surface at discrete locations. In yet another embodiment the LRDP of the above method comprises at least one LRDP variant.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of light dependent isolation of target moieties comprising a inserting into the genome of cell a DNA binding site for a LRDP b extracting said genome from said cell or progeny thereof c applying said extracted genome to immobilized LRDP in the presence of blue light whereby said target moieties are isolated. In one embodiment the target moieties of such a method are selected from the group consisting of genomic fragments and DNA binding proteins.

In a still another embodiment the invention provides a method of altering expression of a polynucleotide in a subpopulation of cells comprising illuminating with blue light a discrete number of cells of the invention for instance cells comprising a nucleotide of the invention comprising a LRDP encoding sequence comprising a LOV domain and a DNA binding domain from a homologous species operatively linked to a polynucleotide encoding a heterologous transcription activation domain whereby the discrete number of cells exhibit altered gene expression. In one embodiment the method further comprises ceasing said illuminating whereby said expression reverts to baseline.

SEQ ID NO 4 SEQ ID NO 10 Seven DNA binding site sequences recognizing the EL222 DNA binding domain identified through the SELEX procedure and chosen for follow up studies.

SEQ ID NO 11 SEQ ID NO 62 The remaining DNA binding site sequences recognizing the EL222 DNA binding domain identified through the SELEX procedure.

SEQ ID NO 63 SEQ ID NO 66 Four overlapping 20 bp Clone 1 derived sequences for further study C1 1 through C1 4 .

SEQ ID NO 68 The 45 bp pClone1 45 sequence comprising the 33 bp randomized region flanked by 6 bp of primer binding sequence.

SEQ ID NO 69 The 20 bp pClone1 20 sequence comprising the Clone 1 derived C1 2 sequence and linker sequence.

The present invention provides a system for selectively and efficiently activating gene expression in a light responsive manner. The present disclosure therefore provides methods nucleic acid molecules proteins kits and assays related to light dependent regulation of gene expression. The present invention provides in certain embodiments a light responsive DNA binding protein operably linked to a transcriptional activation domain that functions to bind DNA and activate transcription in response to blue light. In one embodiment the light responsive DNA binding protein is a prokaryotic protein such as a bacterial protein. In a specific embodiment the protein is EL222 222 amino acid protein Nash et al. 108 2011 9449 incorporated herein by reference . In another embodiment the present invention provides DNA binding sites capable of being recognized by a light responsive DNA binding protein of the invention. In a particular embodiment such DNA binding sites may be double stranded and thus DNA binding sites represented as single stranded sequences herein may additionally comprise the complement thereof.

The present disclosure provides unique advantages over presently available gene expression systems. For instance expression of only a single protein is sufficient in the system to directly activate transcription of a target gene in response to blue light. The light responsive DNA binding protein LRDP can be provided containing both a light oxygen voltage LOV domain and DNA binding domain. Regulation of the DNA binding ability of the light responsive DNA binding protein of the present invention can therefore be carried out within the same molecule as the DNA binding protein in other words in cis which can yield higher fold activation as compared to the presently available gene expression systems such an at least 108 fold or greater up regulation demonstrated in the Examples below.

In another embodiment a light responsive DNA binding protein used herein is comprised as a single molecule without the need to artificially create a protein comprising both the light responsive domain and the DNA binding domain such as a fusion protein. The light responsive DNA binding protein can then be operatively linked to a heterologous regulatory domain such as one or more heterologous transcriptional activation domains. To the contrary current photosensitive gene expression systems are designed as light regulated two hybrid type systems that associate separate DNA binding and gene activation components in a light dependent manner.

The currently available light dependent expression systems comprise additional limitations or complications overcome by the present invention. In particular several light dependent expression systems utilize a photosensitive protein requiring an unusual chromophore that must be exogenously provided for many different types of biologically relevant host cells. The expression system of the present invention however relies on a commonly available chromophore flavin mononucleotide FMN eliminating the need to supply cells with exogenous small molecule precursors and or engineer the expression of enzymes to promote the formation of such chromophores. Furthermore the light dependent expression systems currently available in the art are derived from eukaryotic sources increasing the potential for crosstalk and or pleiotropic effects if utilized in hosts similar to the originating source. This crosstalk significantly limits the possibility of successful use in many biologically relevant host cells such as eukaryotic host cells. The light responsive DNA binding proteins of the present system however are uniquely derived from a lower organism such as a prokaryotic organism and thus may be effectively used for gene expression in cells of higher organisms such as eukaryotic cells.

In certain embodiments the gene expression system of the present invention uses blue light 400 480 nm to trigger gene expression. The use of light as a control signal provides several advantages as it can serve as a noninvasive nontoxic selective and rapid inducer. Importantly many cells and tissues are not photoresponsive and therefore light is an ideal stimulus as it will not affect the physiology of most cell lines used in research. In addition light allows for more precise spatial and temporal control of gene expression because it can be easily turned on off and be directed at a specific region or site in a cell cell culture tissue or organism. A key aspect of temporal control of such activation is that the photochemical signaling mechanism within a LOV domain shuts off quickly after illumination ceases as a photochemically generated bond spontaneously cleaves. The rate of this cleavage can be modified using point mutations to residues near the chromophore binding site. In one embodiment the present invention provides LOV domain sequences with such point mutations for instance in the EL222 LOV domain. Thus the use of light as a stimulus to control gene expression in vivo avoids nearly all of the drawbacks attributed to the inducing chemical or treatment of currently available systems.

In particular most currently available gene regulatory systems are based on chemical inducer molecules e.g. tetracycline that must enter a cell to bind a target protein and activate its transcriptional activity. While these chemical based systems are in widespread use they have several key limitations including slow on off times difficulty in establishing well defined spatial patterns of activation and increased potential for off target effects. Similar concerns can be raised about the effects of heat shock or other broad environmental changes as activating stimuli.

In one embodiment the light responsive DNA binding protein of the invention comprises a light responsive domain and DNA binding domain operably linked or connected to a transcriptional activation domain. In certain embodiments the light responsive domain and DNA binding domain are from a homologous species. In another embodiment both domains may be from the same species or may be encoded from the same gene or a naturally contiguous nucleic acid molecule.

Light responsive domains comprise protein domains that function in a light dependent manner for instance by changing structure in response to exposure to light. Light responsive proteins and domains function in association with chromophores which are moieties capable of detecting or capturing light energy. Any photosensory domain may be used as a light responsive domain of the invention. In one embodiment the light responsive domain is a LOV domain. LOV domains are light sensitive domains responsive to blue light that use a flavin mononucleotide which is widely available in eukaryotic cells as a chromophore. The LOV domain of the present invention may be any LOV domain known in the art. In one embodiment the LOV domain and the DNA binding domain of the invention are from a homologous species and have for instance co evolved to naturally function as a contiguous protein or nucleic acid molecule. In a particular embodiment the LOV domain of the present invention is a LOV domain from the 222 amino acid protein EL222 .

The EL222 protein consists of a photosensory LOV domain an interdomain linker J helix and a helix turn helix HTH DNA binding domain . In the dark the LOV domain binds the HTH domain via interactions of its sheet with the HTH 4 helix. The HTH 4 helix typically provides a dimerization interface for DNA bound HTH domains . Illumination with blue light triggers a photochemical reaction between the LOV domain and its flavin chromophore that leads to conformational changes that disrupt the LOV HTH domain interactions and expose the HTH 4 helix. The HTH 4 helix then binds to another HTH on a second EL222 molecule generating an EL222 dimer that subsequently binds DNA. In addition the LOV domain photochemistry is reversible in one embodiment spontaneously shutting itself off after about 30 seconds in the dark.

In another embodiment the system of the invention can be tuned to have different kinetics of activation and or inactivation using point mutations. For instance the rate of spontaneous shutting off can be altered with point mutations for instance to residues near the chromophore binding site. Initial evaluation of several mutations as described in the Examples below Table 4 shows that these changes can either accelerate this rate e.g. Alanine 79 replaced by Arginine is accelerated ten fold or slow it e.g. a variant combining changes at 41 52 79 and 121 exhibits 75 fold slower reversion . These variants can be used individually or in combination with others in the table or other variants. Such variants find use in many techniques as will be appreciated by those in the art. For instance in certain embodiments such variants may be useful for applications where transiently induced gene expression is desired for studies of rhythmic biological phenomena.

In a further embodiment the LOV domain may be activated or turned on again after a period of inactivation by further illumination with blue light. It is therefore possible to have multiple cycles of activation and inactivation through repeated cycles of blue light exposure and dark. In some embodiments these pulses of light and dark may comprise equal periods of time in the light and time in the dark or may comprise uneven periods where the cells are exposed to light for a longer or shorter time than they are left in the dark. Such periods may comprise 5 seconds 10 seconds 20 seconds 30 seconds 40 seconds 50 seconds 60 seconds 70 seconds 75 seconds 2 minutes 3 minutes 4 minutes 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes 20 minutes 25 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 3 hours 4 hours 5 hours 6 hours 7 hours 8 hours 9 hours 10 hours 12 hours 20 hours 22 hours 24 hours 36 hours or 48 hours. In other embodiments the pulses may be repeated for multiple rounds of activation and inactivation and such pulses may or may not comprise equal periods of time per round.

DNA binding domains in general are well known in the art and refer herein to protein domains that recognize a specific or consensus DNA sequence. Alternatively a DNA binding domain may have a general affinity to DNA without recognizing a specific sequence. The motif or motifs within a DNA binding domain that recognize DNA can recognize and bind to double or single stranded DNA. There are numerous DNA binding domains known in the art including helix turn helix domains helix loop helix domains zinc finger domains leucine zipper domains and high mobility group box domains. A DNA binding domain of the present invention may comprise any DNA binding domain known in the art.

In a particular embodiment the light responsive DNA binding protein of the invention is operably linked to a heterologous regulatory or functional domain or protein. Such domains may comprise for instance general transcription factors transcriptional activators transcriptional enhancers and transcriptional repressors. In one embodiment the light responsive DNA binding protein of the present invention is operably linked to a transcriptional activation domain. Such linkage can be through the form of a fusion protein. A fusion protein as referred to herein describes a protein operably linking or connecting two or more proteins such that each protein continues to serve its intended function. Such proteins are typically linked via peptide bonds and may be constructed using standard techniques known in the art. It is understood that one of skill in the art may combine multiple proteins to create fusion proteins and may also alter the proteins comprising the fusion protein by inserting deleting or rearranging the amino acid sequence of the proteins or domains within the proteins to produce variants that retain the intended function. Also included herein are nucleic acids encoding a LRDP operably linked to a transcriptional activation domain.

The transcriptional activation domain may be selected from any transcriptional activation domain known in the art including but not limited to acidic transcriptional activation domains such as from GAL4 or the C terminal portion of the herpes simplex virus viron protein 16 VP 16 proline rich transcriptional activation domains such as from CTF NF 1 or AP2 serine or threonine rich transcriptional activation domains such as from ITF 1 or ITF2 or glutamine rich transcriptional activation domains such as from Oct1 or Sp1. Other suitable transcriptional activation domains are known in the art and would be readily available to one of skill in the art.

The present invention is broadly applicable to gene expression in any cell including eukaryotic cells such as mammalian insect plant yeast and fungal cells and prokaryotic cells such as bacterial cells. Cells encompassed by the present invention include individual cells cell lines cells in culture cells to be modified for gene therapy purposes cells modified to create transgenic or homologous recombinant organisms cells comprised in part of an organism or cells comprised in an entire organism. Examples of such cells include CHO dhfr cells 293 cells myeloma cells such as SP2 or NSO hematopoeitic stem cells myoblasts hepatocytes lymphocytes neuronal cells skin epithelial cells airway epithelial cells embryonic stem cells fertilized oocytes plant root cells leaf cells flower cells and cells from seed. Accordingly principles of the present invention include a cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding a LRDP and or a LRDP polypeptide.

Nucleic acids according to the invention such as those encoding the light responsive DNA binding domain protein or comprising DNA binding sites may be introduced into a host cell for the regulation of gene expression of such a cell in any manner known in the art for instance through transformation or transfection techniques known in the art. Techniques for transformation and transfection of animal plant fungal insect and other cells are available to those of skill in the art and include but are not limited to calcium phosphate co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection lipofection electroporation microinjection polyethylene glycol mediated transformation viral infection mediated transformation cell fusion and ballistic bombardment. Cells comprising the nucleic acids according to the invention may be transiently or stably transformed. Such cells may therefore transiently or stably express the gene product such as the encoded light responsive DNA binding domain of the present invention. Suitable methods for transforming host cells may be found in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press 1989 and other laboratory manuals.

Regulatory sequences to be operably linked to nucleic acids according to the invention for introduction into a host cell may include promoters enhancers leaders introns polyadenylation signals and other expression control elements. Regulatory sequences are known in the art and are available to those of skill in the art. See Goeddel Gene Expression Technology Methods in Enzymology 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . The design of a suitable expression vector may depend on various factors including the host cell to be transformed or transfected or the level of gene expression desired. Nucleic acid molecules according to the invention may therefore be introduced into a host cell via a recombinant expression vector comprising such nucleic acids. Alternatively nucleic acids according to the invention can be operatively linked to regulatory sequences such as promoter enhancer leader or intron sequences without additional vector sequences followed by introduction into a host cell.

The light responsive DNA binding protein regulates the expression of a gene of interest comprising or operably linked to DNA binding sites recognized by the DNA binding protein. The light responsive DNA binding protein and the target nucleic acid sequence should therefore both be present in the host cell or organism. The present invention therefore provides cells comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding the light responsive DNA binding protein and or a nucleic acid molecule comprising a DNA binding site recognized by the DNA binding protein operably linked to a transcribable polynucleotide sequence.

The target nucleic acid sequence may comprise an exogenous or heterologous transcribable polynucleotide operably linked to a DNA binding site transformed or transfected into the host cell or organism in a manner similar to the introduction of the nucleic acid molecule encoding the light responsive DNA binding protein as described above. In such a case the nucleic acid molecules encoding the light responsive DNA binding protein and comprising the target transcribable polynucleotide sequence can be introduced into a host cell or organism linked as a single molecule or as two separate molecules for instance by co transformation or successive transformation of one molecule then the other.

Alternatively the target nucleic acid molecule may be an endogenous transcribable polynucleotide sequence. In such a case the DNA binding site is incorporated into the host cell in such a manner that it is operably linked to the endogenous transcribable polynucleotide sequence. Operable linkage of the DNA binding site to the endogenous transcribable polynucleotide sequence may occur through any method known in the art for instance by homologous recombination between the two sequences. Homologous recombination techniques and methods are well known and available to one of skill in the art.

In certain embodiments the transcribable polynucleotide sequence comprised within the target sequence and that is operably linked to the EL222 binding consensus sequence may be any desirable transcribable polynucleotide sequence. For instance a reporter sequence a cell stress tolerance sequence an industrial enzyme encoding sequence a sequence encoding a biofuel production enzyme a sequence encoding a cell lysis protein or a sequence encoding a cell regulatory protein. In particular embodiments reporter sequences of the invention may be any of the sequences known in the art that when expressed may be readily identified or measured. These sequences may be useful in identifying or selecting cells or individuals of interest and may include for instance green fluorescent protein GFP encoding sequences luciferase encoding sequences GUS genes or lacZ genes. Cell stress tolerance sequence useful in the present application may provide tolerance to stresses including but not limited to heat stress drought stress biotic stress nutrient deficiency stress or oxidative stress. Many industrial enzyme encoding sequences are known in the art that may be useful in the present invention. These enzymes may include any enzyme that can provide a functional use in an industrial or commercial setting such as amylase protease trypsin pectinase lipase lactase xylanase or catalase. One class of industrial enzyme may include biofuel production enzymes such as cellulase or ligninase. Cell lysis proteins are also well known in the art and include any enzyme or other protein that breaks down the structural integrity of a cell such as lysozyme proteinase K or lysin. There are numerous sequences known in the art encoding cell regulatory proteins that may be useful in the present invention such as kinase regulatory proteins regulators of cell metabolism regulators of cell differentiation or regulators of cell division or growth.

The target nucleic acid sequence in one embodiment may encode a protein of interest for light dependent control of the expression of such protein. Alternatively the target nucleic acid sequence may be transcribed into an active RNA molecule such as transfer or ribosomal RNA molecules or into a RNA molecule for gene suppression in the cell such as an antisense RNA dsRNA shRNA siRNA or miRNA molecule. Transcription of such molecules under control of the system of the present invention may therefore provide light dependent regulatory control within the host cell for instance via protein expression inhibition or suppression. In one embodiment the system methods proteins and nucleic acids of present invention are therefore useful in any instance where it is desirable to control gene expression in a targeted rapid and reversible manner without undesirable pleiotropic effects or cytotoxicity. In a certain embodiment the invention may be useful for instance for developmental studies in which gene expression is only desired or necessary during a particular stage of development treatment of diseases via gene therapy where localized expression is particularly desirable removal or reduction of undesirable gene products in a conditional manner via antisense or ribozyme molecules for instance to alter biochemical pathways large scale production of a protein of interest when desired production of transgenic plants or animals without expression of the target transcribable polynucleotide effecting proper development or to target particular tissues within such transgenic organisms.

Expression of the target nucleic acid molecule is controlled via exposure to blue light for instance light at wavelengths about 350 nm to about 500 nm for instance about 400 nm to about 450 nm.

Variants of the light responsive DNA binding protein are also provided by the present invention. Nucleic acid and protein variations can be made by one of skill in the art using conventional techniques well known in the art. In one embodiment variants of the light responsive DNA binding protein alter the responsiveness and or reversibility of the resulting gene expression. For instance variants rendering the light responsive DNA binding protein more or less responsive to the blue light or requiring more or less exposure to the light or exposure for more or less time are encompassed by the present invention.

The invention also provides for methods for separation isolation or detection of at least one desired target moiety such as a nucleic acid molecule. Such methods comprise operably linking a DNA binding site recognizing a light responsive DNA binding protein of the present invention to the target moiety contacting the light responsive DNA binding protein of the present invention to the target moiety or sample comprising the target moiety in the presence of blue light and thus separating isolating or detecting the target moiety. Release and collection for analysis such as identification of the target moiety may be achieved by removing exposure to blue light. Alternatively analysis such as identification may be performed while the target moiety is bound to the light responsive DNA binding protein. Detection moieties may also be used operably linked to the light responsive DNA binding protein. For instance light responsive DNA binding proteins bound in the presence of blue light to DNA binding sites operably linked to a target moiety may be distributed on an array and detected via an operably linked detection moiety such as a green florescent protein green florescent protein variants enzymatic label or other isotopic or optically detectable labels.

Kits containing any components needed for light regulated gene expression are also provided in the present invention. In one embodiment a kit according to the present invention comprises a kit for the separation isolation or detection of at least one desired target moiety such as a nucleic acid molecule. Such a kit may comprise nucleic acids of the invention such as nucleic acids comprising the target DNA binding sequences or proteins according to the present invention such as a light responsive DNA binding protein. A kit according to the invention may further optionally comprise a column an array a binding matrix or bead a detection moiety such as an isotopic or optically detectable label and any necessary buffers or solutions for the purification or separation of the desired nucleic acid molecule.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a kit useful for regulating expression a gene of interest in a target cell or organism. Such kits may include nucleic acids according to the invention such as nucleic acids encoding a light responsive DNA binding protein or nucleic acid molecules comprising the target DNA binding sequences or both. Said nucleic acid molecules may be provided or comprised within one or more vectors such as an expression vector and such vector may optionally comprise further elements such as an operatively linked minimal promoter enhancer intron or other regulatory sequence or a cloning site for the introduction of any genes of interest or genes targeted for expression controlled via the light responsive DNA binding system of the present invention.

Alternatively a kit of the invention may comprise cells comprising nucleic acids according to the invention or cells in which nucleic acids according to the invention have been stably incorporated therein. Such nucleic acid molecules may comprise nucleic acids encoding a light responsive DNA binding protein or nucleic acid molecules comprising the target DNA binding sequences or both. In one embodiment a kit of the invention comprises cells expressing a light responsive DNA binding protein of the invention. The present invention further provides methods of using a kit of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides methods for selectively recruit proteins to a surface such as the surface of a substrate for instance in a light dependent manner. Such methods may in one embodiment be employed for use in a microarray system. Microarray systems such as those from Illumina or Affymetrix are well known in the art. In certain embodiments such methods may comprise immobilizing to or coating a surface with DNA binding sequence molecules exposing the surface to a light responsive DNA binding protein of the invention and selectively illuminating said surface. By DNA binding sequence molecules is meant nucleic acids having a sequence to which the DNA binding domain of an LRDP binds. Upon illumination the light responsive DNA binding protein may become associated with DNA binding sequence molecules on the surface of the substrate thus recruiting these proteins and any binding partner such as a nucleic acid or protein in association with or linked to the light responsive DNA binding protein. Thus in one embodiment the light responsive DNA binding protein may be associated with or linked to for instance through a fusion protein any protein of interest. In another embodiment a light responsive DNA binding protein of the invention may be recruited to a surface using such methods in a spatial pattern through selective spatial illumination of the surface. In some embodiments nucleic acids immobilized on the substrate surface have different sequences and are distributed at discrete sites on the substrate surface.

The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The first step taken to adapt the EL222 prokaryotic transcription factor for use in eukaryotic cells was to modify EL222 with nuclear localization and activation domains not present in the natural protein without hindering DNA binding or light regulation. The transcriptional activation domain AD from the herpes simplex virus VP16 protein which is routinely used to efficiently recruit components of the mammalian transcription machinery to a target gene Blau et al. 1996 16 2044 was fused to the EL222 coding sequence . A nuclear localization signal NLS was also added to properly localize the VP16 EL222 fusion protein to the nucleus. Expression of the VP16 EL222 chimera is driven from the constitutively active SV40 early promoter.

DNA encoding a 13 residue N terminal truncation of WT EL222 residues 14 222 provided as SEQ ID NO 72 was cloned into the expression vector pHis G 1 Parallel1 Nash et al. 108 2011 9449 .

The rate altering A79Q EL222 variant provided as SEQ ID NO 76 was produced using the QUIKCHANGE protocol Stratagene within the context of the N terminally truncated EL222 Zoltowski et al. 2011 8771 . The A79Q EL222 variant was subcloned into a pHis Parallel1 expression vector.

WT EL222 and A79Q EL222 proteins were expressed in BL21 DE3 cells. Cells were grown in LB AMP at 37 C. in the dark and were induced with 0.5 mM IPTG. After a 20 hour induction at 18 C. cells were centrifuged and resulting pellets resuspended in buffer A 50 mM Tris Cl pH 8.0 and 100 mM NaCl and subsequently lysed by sonication. The protein was purified in the dark at 4 C. by gravity flow chromatography with Ni NTA agarose Qiagen equilibrated in buffer A. Proteins were eluted in buffer B 50 mM Tris Cl pH 8.0 100 mM NaCl 75 mM imidazole exchanged into buffer A and concentrated to 100 200 M.

In addition to modifying the EL222 protein a high affinity cognate DNA binding site EL222 was identified and used to construct a reporter vector with tandem copies of this and a minimal TATA box promoter in front of a Firefly luciferase gene as a test transgene. Several sites were initially identified for this purpose using a candidate based approach based an in vitro DNA binding assay EMSA Electro Mobility Shift Assay of approximately 15 sequences located upstream of the EL222 gene itself Nash et al. 2011 . From these candidates one DNA site was identified AN 45 that bound EL222 best in the group with an ECof 5 10 M. Importantly DNA binding occurred only when the protein DNA mixture was exposed to light and not when kept in the dark as expected from the presence of the photosensitive LOV domain. However while the AN 45 substrate bound with the highest affinity of this limited set of oligonucleotides it was suspected that this was not an optimal binding site given DNA binding affinities for other HTH containing proteins Zhu and Winans 98 2001 1507 and it did not prove to be useful in pilot studies of this light activated gene system.

To identify additional DNA sequences with higher affinity for EL222 an in vitro selection method was used SELEX Systematic Evolution of Ligands by EXponential enrichment Tuerk and Gold 249 1990 505 . For this assay a large double stranded oligonucleotide library 5 10molecules was synthesized consisting of randomly generated 33 bp sequences flanked by constant 5 and 3 ends each 21 bp long with primer binding sites . The oligonucleotide library was next incubated with recombinant His tagged EL222 protein in a 2 1 DNA protein ratio and the mixture was exposed to light to activate the protein. The EL222 DNA complexes were purified by affinity chromatography using Ni NTA beads under stringent binding conditions. Next the purified EL222 DNA complexes were incubated in the dark to inactivate the protein and elute the DNAs. The DNA sequences were amplified by PCR and then used to set up a second round of selection the entire cycle was repeated a total of four times. Gel mobility shift assays were done after each selection cycle to verify that the binding affinity of the DNA pools increased after each successive round Rounds 1 4 .

As predicted by the fourth round of SELEX a pool enriched with DNAs with higher affinity for EL222 than the AN 45 substrate was obtained Round 4 as compared to pre selection . DNAs from SELEX round 4 were further cloned and sequenced. A total of 60 DNA sequences were cloned but because some of these sequences were repeated only 57 unique DNA sequences were obtained. A complete list of these sequences is shown in Table 1 and Table 2. Based on analyses using the motif based sequence analysis tool MEME seven DNA sequences were chosen for follow up binding studies Table 1 . EMSA assays showed that Clone 1 bound with the highest affinity to EL222 out of the seven DNAs tested with a 30 50 fold higher affinity than AN 45 ECvalue of 100 300 nM Table 1 . To further delineate the sequence within 45 bp Clone 1 DNA most relevant to EL222 binding 4 overlapping 20 bp fragments derived from Clone 1 were designed and their binding to EL222 was assessed by gel mobility shift assay . Interestingly only the C1 2 fragment which contains the full motif identified by MEME see Table 1 was bound by EL222 while fragments C1 1 and C1 3 do not bind EL222 despite containing halves of the motif.

The initial single stranded oligonucleotide 5 GGGAATGGATCCACATCTACG N TTCAACTTGACGAAGCTTGCC 3 SEQ ID NO 1 was chemically synthesized by Integrated DNA Technologies IDT . To amplify the DNA pool six 50 l PCR reactions were set up using final concentrations 0.1 M of the synthetic pool oligonucleotide as template 2 M primers 200 M dNTPs 20 mM Tris Cl pH 8.8 10 mM NH SO 10 mM KCl 2 mM MgSO 0.1 Triton X 100 4 mM MgCl and 0.04 U Vent New England Biolabs Inc. . The primers used were Fwd L1 5 GGGAATGGATCCACATCTACG 3 SEQ ID NO 2 and Rev L1 5 GGCAAGCTTCGTCAAGTTGAA 3 SEQ ID NO 3 . The cycling parameters were as follows 

Amplified DNAs were purified using QIAQUICK PCR purification kit Qiagen . Approximately 15.7 M DNA 5 10molecules and 7.8 M A79Q EL222 protein were incubated in a total volume of 500 l containing final concentrations 10 mM Tris Cl pH 8.0 80 mM NaCl 3 mM MgCl 10 glycerol 0.025 mg mL polydI dC and 0.01 mg mL BSA. The binding reaction was mixed by rotation for 25 min at 4 C. and kept under continuous illumination with a white LED light. Ni NTA agarose beads Qiagen were pre blocked with 0.02 mg mL of polydl dC and then added to the binding reaction and incubated for an additional 25 min at 4 C. with mixing and continuous illumination. The bead EL222 DNA complexes were pulled down by centrifugation at 2000 rpm for 1 min at 4 C. Next complexes were washed with 300 l of buffer C 50 mM Tris Cl pH 8.0 300 mM NaCl and pulled by centrifugation this step was repeated at least 2 more times. After the last wash the bead EL222 DNA complexes were resuspended in 400 l of binding buffer without polydI dC and BSA and incubated in the dark for 30 min at 4 C. with mixing by rotation. The beads EL222 complexes were pulled down by centrifugation and the supernatant containing the DNAs was transferred to a new Eppendorf tube.

Phenol chloroform isoamyl alcohol was added to the supernantant in a 1 1 ratio the sample was vortexed and centrifuged at 13 000 rpm for 5 min at 4 C. The top aqueous phase which contains the eluted DNA was transferred to a new Eppendorf tube containing 1 ml of 100 ethanol 0.3 M NaOAc pH 5.2 and 0.01 mg mL glycogen. The DNA was precipitated overnight at 20 C. and subsequently recovered by centrifugation at 13 000 rpm for 20 min at 4 C. The pelleted DNA was resuspended in 12 l of DNase free water and later used as the template DNA pool in a second PCR amplification step and round of selection. To sequence individual DNA sequences from the DNA pools obtained after each SELEX round the DNA pools were cloned into the pBlueSkript vector using BamHI and HindIII restriction sites.

DNA pools derived from each SELEX cycle were PCR amplified as described previously in the SELEX procedure. Complementary oligonucleotides for each individual SELEX derived clone sequence were chemically synthesized Sigma heated to 95 100 C. for 5 min and left to cool to room temperature to anneal the oligonucleotides. DNAs were 5 end labeled in a 50 l reaction containing final concentrations 68 nM DNA substrate 70 mM Tris Cl pH 7.6 10 mM MgCl 5 mM DTT 0.6 Ci ATP P Perkin Elmer cat. no. BLU502Z500UC and 0.2 U PNK New England Biolabs Inc. . The reaction was incubated for 30 min at 37 C. followed by a 20 min incubation at 65 C. to heat inactivate the enzyme. The P labeled DNA was purified from the unincorporated ATP P using Illustra ProbeQuant G 50 micro columns GE Healthcare . Approximately 13.6 nM radiolabeled DNA was incubated with varying concentrations of WT EL222 in the same binding buffer used for SELEX procedure for 25 min at 4 C. with continuous illumination with a white LED light. Reactions were analyzed on a 5 native gel Acrylamide Bis 29 1 and run in TBE buffer at 150 V for 1.5 hr at 4 C. The gel was exposed to a PhosphorImaging plate and visualized using FujiFilm FLA 5100 imaging system.

Based on the in vitro binding data in Example 2 two reporter constructs were designed to test in cultured mammalian cells together with the VP16 EL222 fusion protein. Both constructs contained the Firefly luciferase gene under the control of five tandem copies of either the Clone 1 45 bp sequence or the C1 2 20 bp sequence . When co transfected into 293T cells the VP16 EL222 expression construct was able to activate transcription of the pClone1 45 Luc and pClone1 20 Luc reporters by 57 fold and 87 fold over empty vector controls respectively when the cells were exposed to blue light . In contrast dark state controls only showed about a 1.5 to 2 fold change in luciferase induction over empty vector for both reporters. After correcting for this small background induction in the dark we calculated that for pClone 1 45 Luc and pClone1 20 Luc there is 25 fold and 58 fold increase in transgene expression dark to light respectively. With changes to the illumination protocol to optimize conditions given the lifetime of the wildtype EL222 photoexcited state we observed even higher fold activation e.g. 108 fold activation . Additional control experiments have shown that the activation of VP16 EL222 in mammalian cells is specific to blue light as illumination with red light does not turn on transcription of Luciferase reporter . The specificity of the VP 16 EL222 protein for the 20 bp C2 1 sequence SEQ ID NO 69 when transfected into mammalian cells was verified by experiments wherein reporter vectors under the control of nonspecific DNAs sequences were shown to not be turned on by EL222 either in the dark or with light . Taken together this data demonstrate that the EL222 can function as a blue light regulated transcription factor that can be used to control transgene expression in mammalian cells.

For expression in mammalian cells DNA containing the 13 residue N terminal truncation residues 14 222 of WT EL222 was subcloned into the mammalian expression vector pVP16 Clontech catalog no. 630305 using EcoRI and XbaI restriction sites to obtain pVP16 EL222. The VP16 NLS EL222 coding sequence is provided as SEQ ID NO 70. The corresponding amino acid sequence is provided as SEQ ID NO 71. The nuclear localization signal NLS corresponds to nucleotides 7 27 of SEQ ID NO 70 and amino acids 3 9 of SEQ ID NO 71. The VP16 activation domain corresponds to nucleotides 28 261 of SEQ ID NO 70 and amino acids 10 87 of SEQ ID NO 71. The EL222 ORF 14 222 aa sequence corresponds to nucleotides 268 879 of SEQ ID NO 70 and amino acids 90 298 of SEQ ID NO 71 . The NLS and VP16 regions were derived from the pVP16 Clontech vector. The rate altering variants L52I EL222 SEQ ID NO 75 A79Q EL222 SEQ ID NO 76 and L52I A9Q EL2222 SEQ ID NO 83 were subcloned into the pVP16 vector from Clontech see .

The five tandem copies of the Clone 1 sequence both the 20 bp and 45 bp version as shown in were chemically synthesized by GeneArt Invitrogen and inserted into the pGL4.23 luc minP construct Promega using XhoI and HindIII restriction sites to obtain pClone1 20 Firefly Luc or pClone1 45 Firefly Luc . To make the mCherry reporter construct the Firefly Luciferase coding sequence in pClone1 20 Firefly Luc was replaced by the mCherry coding sequence using NcoI and XbaI. The resulting vector was named pClone1 20 mCherry . Additional vectors were made that served as controls in experiments these were the p3XAN45 Firefly Luc and p5XUAS Firefly Luc constructs. The p3XAN45 Firefly Luc vector was made by inserting three tandem copies of the AN45 DNA sequence Nash et al. 108 2011 9449 which were chemically synthesized by GeneArt Invitrogen into the pGL4.23 luc minP construct Promega using XhoI and HindIII. Similarly for the p5XUAS Firefly Luc vector five tandem copies of the GAL4 upstream activation sequence UAS were amplified from the pG5SEAP vector Clontech catalog no. 630305 and subcloned into the pGL4.23 luc minP using XhoI and HindIII.

Human embryonic kidney cells HEK 293T cells ATCC were cultured in DMEM Thermo Scientific cat. no. SH30284.01 supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum FCS and 1 penicillin streptomycin Pen Strep solution at 37 C. in 5 CO. Cells were co transfected using LIPOFECTAMINE 2000 Invitrogen in an optimized protocol. On the day of transfection a total of 495 ng of DNA 410 ng of pVP16 empty or pVP16 EL222 DNA 82 ng of pClone1 20 Firefly Luc or pClone1 45 Firefly Luc DNA and 3 ng of pGL4.75 hRluc CMV Promega were diluted in 50 l of Opti MEM I Medium Invitrogen cat. No. 11058 and aliquoted into a 24 well plate. For each well 1.25 l of LIPOFECTAMINE 2000 was diluted in 50 l of Opti MEM I Medium and incubated for 5 min at room temperature. The diluted LIPOFECTAMINE 2000 was then added to each well containing the diluted DNA and incubated at room temperature for 20 30 min. During this incubation step the cells were trypsinized washed with 10 mL of phosphate buffered saline solution and centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 5 min at room temperature. The cells were then resuspended in Pen Strep free DMEM 10 FCS and diluted to 1 10cells per 500 l. After the 30 min incubation step 500 l of the cell suspension were added to each of the wells containing the diluted DNA LIPOFECTAMINE 2000 mixture. At 24 hr after transfection a blue LED array LED wholesalers 2501BU blue 225 LED 13.8 Watt square panel 110 V was placed above the light treated plate inside the cell incubator for an entire 24 hr period. The non treated plate was kept in the dark throughout the experiment. At 48 hr after transfection Luciferase activity was measured with the Dual Glo Luciferase Assay system according to the manufacturer s instructions Promega . A single experiment included identical transfections set up in triplicate for each condition i.e. pVP16 empty and pVP16 EL222 . The Firefly Luciferase data was normalized relative to Luciferase to correct for differences in transfection efficiency between samples. For this the average of the triplicate Firefly Luciferase values are divided by the average of the triplicate Luciferase values for each condition. Next a ratio of ratio is calculated to obtain the fold change FC in activation FC Firefly Firefly . To calculate the fold change upon blue light illumination the FCfor pVP16 EL222 was divided by the FCfor pVP16 EL222.

A Firefly luciferase reporter construct under the control of 5 copies of 20 bp C1 2 SEQ ID NO 69 sequence was co transfected with the VP16 EL222 expression construct or a VP16 empty vector into HEK293T cells in a manner similar to that above. At 24 hr after transfection the cells were kept in the dark or illuminated with blue light in an alternative fashion for 24 hours using an illumination schedule of 20 seconds light 60 seconds dark through the 24 hour period. Afterwards cells were harvested and luciferase activity was measured left graph . Luciferase values were normalized for transfection variability using a control luciferase reporter with a constitutively active CMV promoter and was co transfected with the Firefly luciferase reporter and VP16 EL222 expression vector. Results are provided in . A 108 fold enhancement in gene expression was observed with this illumination protocol compared to 58 fold change observed with the same enhancer and constant illumination .

DNA containing the VP16 activation domain the NLS and the 13 residue N terminal truncation residues 14 222 of WT EL222 was PCR amplified from the pVP16 NLS EL222 vector and subcloned into the mammalian expression vector pIRESpuro Clontech catalog no. 6031 1 which contains a Puromycin resistance gene using EcoRV and BamHI. The construct was named pIRESpuro VP16 EL222. HEK293T cells were transfected with the pIRESpuro VP16 EL222 and at 24 hr after transfection the cells were cultured in media containing puromycin at 2 g ml to select for those cells carrying the pIRESpuro VP16 EL222 vector. Puromycin resistant colonies were validated for expression of VP16 EL222 protein by western blotting with an anti VP16 antibody Abcam catalog no. ab4808 see section vi below . Of the colonies screened the VP16 EL222 stable cell line named Clone 3 showed the highest level of protein expression and was therefore chosen for use in subsequent experiments.

The protocol for Luciferase transcription assays in the VP16 EL222 stable cell line was as follows. Clone 3 cells were transfected with the Firefly luciferase reporter construct under the control of 5 copies of 20 bp C1 2 sequence SEQ ID NO 69 only. Immediately after transfection the cells illuminated with blue light in an alternative fashion for 3 6 9 12 or 24 hours using an illumination schedule of 20 seconds light 60 seconds dark or kept in the dark for the duration of the experiment. After each time point the cells were harvested and luciferase activity was measured. Results are provided in . Luciferase intensity was measured at over 1.3 million relative light units RLU in Clone 3 cells after 12 hr of illumination. Compared to the Luciferase intensity values we obtained when HEK293T cells were transiently transfected with VP16 EL222 and the p5XClone1 20 Firefly Luc reporter vectors 50 60 0000 RLUs we observed over 20 fold higher light driven activation of Luciferase transcription with the Clone 3 cell line that stably expresses VP16 EL222 compare left panel and .

The results in show that the highest level of Luciferase transcriptional activation in Clone 3 cells was achieved after 12 hr of illumination. With this information in hand the parameters of the illumination schedule were tested. Three different illumination cycles were compared 20 seconds light 60 seconds dark 10 seconds light 70 seconds dark and 5 seconds light 60 seconds dark. The results shown in demonstrate that the optimal illumination schedule consists of 20 seconds light 60 seconds dark cycle for a 12 hr period.

The CellTiter Blue cell viability assay Promega catalog no. G8080 was used as per manufacturer s instructions to measure cell viability after performing a constant illumination experiment as described above in section called i. constant illumination. 

An mCherry reporter construct under the control of 5 copies of 20 bp C1 2 SEQ ID NO 69 sequence was co transfected with the VP16 EL222 expression construct or a VP16 empty vector into HEK293T cells as described above. At 24 hr after transfection the cells were kept in the dark or illuminated with blue light in an alternative fashion for 24 hours using an illumination schedule of 20 seconds light 60 seconds dark . Next the cells were analyzed using a Nikon Eclipse TS100 fluorescence microscope and images captured using NIS Elements imaging software. A surface plot representation of each of the images taken was obtained using ImageJ software. The results are provided in . Cells expressing VP16 EL222 and that were illuminated with blue light showed high levels of mCherry fluorescence indicative of transcriptional activation by VP16 EL222. However cells transfected with VP 16 EL222 that were kept in the dark showed little to no mCherry fluorescence.

Similar experiments were done with the Clone 3 cell line that stably expresses the VP16 EL222 protein. In this case Clone 3 cells were transfected with the pClone 1 20 mCherry vector only and subsequently illuminated with blue light pulses 20 seconds light 60 seconds dark for 24 hr. Cells were then analyzed using a Nikon Eclipse TS100 fluorescence microscope as described above. The number of mCherry positive cells was higher and the intensity of the fluorescent higher in Clone 3 cells than in HEK293T cells that were transiently transfected with VP16 EL222 compare and . These data together with the results presented in suggest there is a notable advantage to using a cell line that stably expresses the VP16 EL222 protein.

vi. Western Blotting to Determine Luciferase Protein Levels in HEK293T Cells that Stably Express VP16 EL222

Clone 3 cells were plated at a density of 2.2 million cells mL in a total volume of 2 mL in a 6 well plate. The next day cells were transfected with the Luciferase reporter vector containing 5 copies of 20 bp C1 2 SEQ ID NO 69 sequence as described above. Immediately after transfections cells were either kept in the dark or illuminated with blue light pulses using a 10 seconds light 70 seconds dark cycle for 12 hr. Next cell lysates were made from dark and illuminated samples approximately 10 20 g of protein was loaded on a SDS PAGE gel and resolved by electrophoresis. The proteins resolved from the gel were transferred to a PVDF membrane GE Healthcare and blotted with an anti VP16 antibody Abcam ab4808 . The results are provided in . These data show that Luciferase protein is expressed exclusively when VP16 EL222 is present in cells and only when those cells are illuminated with blue light.

All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

