---

title: Regenerable MgO promoted metal oxide oxygen carriers for chemical looping combustion
abstract: The disclosure provides an oxygen carrier comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO promoter particles. The MgO promoter particles increase the reaction rate and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide when contacting with a gaseous hydrocarbon at a temperature greater than about 725° C. The promoted oxide solid is generally comprised of less than about 25 wt. % MgO, and may be prepared by physical mixing, incipient wetness impregnation, or other methods known in the art. The oxygen carrier exhibits a crystalline structure of the metal oxide and a crystalline structure of MgO under XRD crystallography, and retains these crystalline structures over subsequent redox cycles. In an embodiment, the metal oxide is FeO, and the gaseous hydrocarbon is comprised of methane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08807988&OS=08807988&RS=08807988
owner: U.S. Department Of Energy
number: 08807988
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120522
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure provides an oxygen carrier for a chemical looping combustion process comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO promoter particles. The oxygen carrier exhibits a crystalline structure of the metal oxide and a crystalline structure of MgO under XRD crystallography over numerous redox cycles. The MgO promoter particles increase the reaction rate and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide when contacting with a gaseous hydrocarbon at a temperature greater than about 725 C. In an embodiment the metal oxide is FeOand the gaseous hydrocarbon is comprised of methane.

Applications are known where metal oxide oxygen carriers are utilized for the delivery of oxygen via reduction of the oxygen carrier. One such application which has been investigated extensively is chemical looping combustion. Chemical looping combustion systems generally utilize a fuel reactor an air reactor and a metal oxide oxygen carrier undergoing reduction in the fuel reactor and oxidation in the air reactor. The reduction in the fuel reactor is facilitated by close contact between a fuel and the oxygen carrier. The subsequent oxidation of the carrier in the air reactor is an exothermic process and a stream of Nis exhausted from the air reactor and carries the heat of oxidation to an attached power generation island.

Chemical looping combustion cycles provide potentially significant advantages enhanced reversibility of the two redox reactions offers improved efficiencies over traditional single stage combustions where the release of a fuel s energy occurs in a highly irreversible manner. Further with appropriate oxygen carriers both redox reactions can occur at relatively low temperatures allowing a power station to more closely approach an ideal work output without exposing components to excessive working temperatures. Additionally and significantly chemical looping combustion can serve as an effective carbon capture technique. Of the two flue gas streams generated one is comprised of atmospheric Nand residual O but sensibly free of CO while the second stream is comprised of COand HO and contains almost all of the COgenerated by the system. It is relatively uncomplicated to remove the water vapor leading to a stream of almost pure CO. For these reasons chemical looping combustion systems have been extensively investigated.

It is understood that high reactivity and oxygen utilization of the oxygen carrier is desired in chemical looping combustion systems in order to limit the solid inventories utilized in the various processes. Generally the amount of the bed material in each reactor and the solid circulation rates between reactors mainly depends on the oxygen carrying capacity of the carriers. As a result an important characteristic of a successful oxygen carrier is its reactivity in both reduction and oxidation cycles. To increase reactivity oxygen carrier particles are often prepared by depositing a metal oxide phase on an inert support such as SiO TiO ZrO AlO YSZ bentonite and others in order to stabilize the metal loading and increase exposed surface area over repeated reduction oxidation cycles.

Magnesium oxide MgO has additionally been utilized to foster the support of certain metal oxides such as FeO. This has generally been conducted by sintering a FeO MgO mixture at temperatures exceeding about 1000 C. and stabilizing the oxide by generating MgFeO. See e.g. Jin et al. Development of a Novel Chemical Looping Combustion Synthesis of a Solid Looping Material of NiO NiAlO38 1999 . Similarly magnesium has been utilized as a component in various supporting spinels. See e.g. Ryden et al. FeOon Ce Ca or Mg Stabilized ZrO2 as Oxygen Carrier for Chemical Looping Combustion Using NiO as Additive Vol. 56 No. 8 2010 and see Johansson et al. Investigation of FeOwith MgAlOfor Chemical Looping Combustion 43 2004 and see Adanez et al. Progress in Chemical Looping Combustion and Reforming technologies 38 2012 . Generally speaking in these oxygen carriers MgO has been absent as a discrete component. In cases where MgO has been identified within the oxygen carrier reduction temperature have been limited to a maximum of 700 C. and very slow or no reaction has been reported. See Jin et al. and see Adanez et al. MgO has additionally been utilized as a discrete component in conjunction with FeOand MnOin order to enhance fluidization however the resulting mixture exhibits CO selectivity on the order of 90 . See U.S. Pat. No. 2 607 699 to Corner et al. issued Aug. 19 1952.

Disclosed here is an oxygen carrier comprised of a metal oxide and MgO promoter particles for the chemical looping combustion of a gaseous hydrocarbon at temperatures greater than about 725 C. The oxygen carrier maintains MgO as a discrete component over numerous redox cycles and demonstrably improves the percentage combustion and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide. The MgO component does not function as a support material for increasing the surface area of the oxygen carrier. Additionally the oxygen carrier generates COand HO combustion gases with a substantial absence of CO and H. The effect is temperature dependent and is generally not observed at temperatures below about 700 C. In a particular embodiment the metal oxide is FeO and MgO comprises between 5 weight wt. and 25 wt. of the FeO MgO mixture.

The objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides an oxygen carrier comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO promoter particles. The MgO promoter particles increase the reaction rate and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide when contacting with a gaseous hydrocarbon at a temperature greater than about 725 C. In an embodiment the metal oxide is FeOand the gaseous hydrocarbon is comprised of methane.

The oxygen carrier may be utilized within a chemical combustion system having a fuel reactor and an oxidation reactor. The fuel reactor receives a flow of a gaseous hydrocarbon fuel and facilitates contact between the gaseous hydrocarbon fuel and the oxygen carrier at an appropriate temperature condition reducing the metal oxide and generating COand HO. The reduced carrier may subsequently enter the oxidation reactor for subsequent oxidation. Following the oxidation the regenerated metal oxide particles and the MgO promoter particles comprise a regenerated promoted oxide solid which may be subsequently transported to the fuel reactor for use as the oxygen carrier in a cyclic operation. Within the cycle the MgO promoter particles increase the reaction rate and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide but otherwise act as an inert material with no significant oxygen release capability. The surface areas of MgO promoted carriers are generally low indicating that MgO does not act as a support which usually increases the surface area. Additionally the promoted oxide solid exhibits a crystalline structure of both the metal oxide and MgO under XRD crystallography following the reduction oxidation cycles.

The MgO promoter particles significantly increase the oxygen transfer of the metal oxide and greatly improve the reaction rate and percent of combustion of the gaseous hydrocarbon as compared to the metal oxide acting alone. The addition of an inert material such as MgO can also increase the physical strength of the oxygen carrier. Thus the addition of MgO promoter particles increases the methane reactivity and physical stability of the oxygen carrier and has a potential for use improving industrial oxygen carriers for the chemical looping combustion process.

Embodiments of the oxygen carrier disclosed are further demonstrated and described in the following description.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide an oxygen carrier exhibiting improved performance through the use of MgO promoter particles.

The disclosure provides an oxygen carrier comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO promoter particles. The MgO promoter particles increase the reaction rate and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide when contacting with a gaseous hydrocarbon at a temperature greater than about 725 C. and may be prepared by physical mixing incipient wetness impregnation or other methods known in the art for generating a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO particles. The oxygen carrier exhibits a crystalline structure of the metal oxide and a crystalline structure of MgO under XRD crystallography and retains these crystalline structures over subsequent redox cycles. The oxygen carrier may be utilized for the delivery of oxygen to a fuel reactor in a chemical looping combustion process followed by subsequent oxidation of the reduced metal oxide using an oxidizing gas. In an embodiment the metal oxide is FeOand the gaseous hydrocarbon is comprised of methane.

A chemical looping combustion system within which the oxygen carrier disclosed here may be utilized is illustrated at . illustrates a chemical combustion system generally at and includes fuel reactor . Fuel reactor receives a flow of a gaseous hydrocarbon fuel at and the oxygen carrier at and facilitates contact between the gaseous hydrocarbon fuel and the oxygen carrier. Fuel reactor further is maintained at a temperature sufficient to generate a combustion reaction as a result of the contact between the gaseous hydrocarbon and the oxygen carrier generating COand HO and reducing at least a portion of the oxygen carrier. Following the reduction and oxidation combustion gases comprised of COand HO with a substantial absence of CO and Hexit fuel reactor at exhaust and the reduced carrier exits fuel reactor at .

The oxygen carrier entering fuel reactor at is comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles and a plurality of MgO promoter particles as will be discussed. Under XRD crystallography the oxygen carrier exhibits a crystalline structure of both the metal oxide and MgO. At least some portion of the plurality of metal oxide particles is in physical contact with the plurality of the MgO promoter particles. In an embodiment the plurality of metal oxide particles comprise at least 50 weight percent of the promoted oxide solid. In addition the oxygen carrier may be further comprised of an inert support in contact with the promoted oxide solid. With reference to within fuel reactor the promoted oxide solid comprising the oxygen carrier may be reduced from a generic MgO MeOcomposition to a reduced carrier having generic MgO MeOcomposition where MeOrepresents the metal oxide or combination of metal oxides and MeOrepresents reduced metal oxide particles and where MgO represents the MgO promoter particles. In an embodiment the metal oxide is FeO CuO NiO MnO CoO CaSO MoO or mixtures thereof and the reduced metal oxide particles are a reduced form of the respective metal oxides.

The reduced carrier exiting fuel reactor at may subsequently enter oxidation reactor . Oxidation reactor further receives a flow of oxidizing gas such as air and facilitates contact between the reduced carrier and the oxidizing gas. The temperature of oxidation reactor in conjunction with oxygen contact is sufficient to oxidize the reduced metal oxide particles comprising the reduced carrier producing regenerated metal oxide particles where the regenerated metal oxide particles are oxidations of the reduced metal oxide particles. Following the oxidation the regenerated metal oxide particles and the MgO promoter particles comprise a regenerated promoted oxide solid having the generic MgO MeOcomposition of the promoted oxide solid and the regenerated promoted oxide solid comprises a regenerated oxygen carrier. The regenerated oxygen carrier may be subsequently transported to fuel reactor at for use as the oxygen carrier in a cyclic operation.

Additionally as is understood the oxidizing reaction occurring in oxidation reactor may be an exothermic reaction and heat generated may be carried from oxidizing reactor by a gaseous flow exiting at and may be sent to and utilized by a power generation cycle. Further it is understood that provides an exemplary application illustrating a chemical looping combustion process with the oxygen carrier however this is not intended to be limiting. Within this disclosure it is only necessary that an oxygen carrier comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO promoter particles be contacted with a heated gaseous hydrocarbon at a temperature greater than about 725 C. producing combustion gases and a reduced carrier where the combustion gases are comprised of COand HO and where the combustion gases have a substantial absence of CO and H and where the reduced carrier is comprised of a plurality of reduced metal oxide particles and the plurality of MgO promoter particles and where the reduced metal oxide particles are a reduction product of the metal oxide particles.

Within this disclosure metal oxide particles means particles comprised of a compound consisting of a transition metal cation bounded with at least one oxygen atom anion or any material active for CLC reaction. Similarly reduced metal oxide particles means a reduced form of the metal oxides particles such that reduced metal oxide particles means either 1 particles comprised of a compound consisting of the transition metal cation of the metal oxide particles bounded with at least one oxygen atom anion where the ratio of the oxygen atom anion to the transition metal cation in the reduced metal oxide particles is less than the ratio of the oxygen atom anion to the transition metal cation in the metal oxide particles or 2 particles comprised of the transition metal comprising the metal oxide particles. Such metal oxide particle reduced metal oxide particle redox systems commonly used for the transfer of oxygen are known in the art. See e.g Adanez et al. Progress in Chemical Looping Combustion and Reforming technologies 38 2012 among others. In an embodiment the metal oxide particles are comprised of FeO CuO NiO MnO CoO CaSO MoO and mixtures thereof and the respective reduced metal oxide particles are comprised of FeOand FeO Cu Ni MnO CoO and mixtures thereof. In a particular embodiment the metal oxide particles are comprised of FeOand the reduced metal oxide particles are comprised of FeO. In addition CaSOmay also be used in place of metal oxides.

Within this disclosure MgO promoter particles means particles comprised of MgO for example magnesia or dolomite. In an embodiment MgO promoter particles are present in the promoted oxide solid such that the promoted oxide solid is comprised of at least 1 wt. MgO. In another embodiment MgO promoter particles are present in the promoted oxide solid such that the promoted oxide solid is comprised of less than or equal to about 25 wt. MgO.

Within this disclosure substantial absence of CO and H in the combustion gases means that the combustion gases are comprised of less than 1.0 volume percent vol CO and H.

Within this disclosure reducing or reduction as it applies to a metal oxide particle means the loss of oxygen from the metal oxide particle resulting in the formation of a reduced metal oxide particle. For example the reduction of a generic MeOcomposition to a generic MeOcomposition. Similarly a reduction product means a chemical composition resulting from the reduction of a metal oxide particle.

Within this disclosure oxidizing or oxidation as it applies to a reduced metal oxide particle means the gain of oxygen by the reduced metal oxide particle resulting in the formation of a metal oxide particle. For example the oxidation of a generic MeOcomposition to a generic MeOcomposition. Similarly an oxidation product means a chemical composition resulting from the oxidation of reduced metal oxide particles.

Within this disclosure oxygen carrier means a solid comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles and a plurality of MgO promoter particles where at least some portion of the plurality of metal oxide particles is in physical contact with at least some portion of the MgO promoter particles. Similarly a reduced carrier means a solid comprised of a plurality of reduced metal oxide particles and the plurality of MgO promoter particles where the plurality of reduced metal oxide particles are a reduction product of the plurality of metal oxide particles.

Within this disclosure regenerated metal oxide particles means an oxidation product of a plurality of reduced metal oxide particles and regenerated promoted oxide solid means a solid comprised of a plurality of regenerated metal oxide particles and a plurality of MgO promoter particles. Similarly a regenerated oxygen carrier means a solid comprised of the regenerated promoted oxide solid.

As discussed the oxygen carrier is comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles and a plurality of MgO promoter particles where the oxygen carrier exhibits a crystalline structure of both the metal oxide and MgO under XRD crystallography following the reduction oxidation cycles described above. As an example indicates a series of XRD traces for an embodiment where the metal oxide particle is FeO and following 15 reduction oxidation cycles using methane at approximately 800 C. as the gaseous hydrocarbon. At trace represents an oxygen carrier comprised of 5 wt. MgO trace represents an oxygen carrier comprised of 10 wt. MgO and trace represents an oxygen carrier comprised of 25 wt. MgO where XRD peaks are labeled in accordance with the accompanying symbol key. As indicated at traces and crystalline structures at the respective FeOand MgO 2 theta 2 values indicate the presence of both FeOand MgO following the 15 cycles. For reference additionally illustrates an XRD trace of a FeOsample without the MgO promoter present at trace and an XRD trace of an MgO promoter comprised of MgO and without FeOpresent at trace . Additionally indicates the formation of only a very small amount of MgFeOunder the reduction oxidation conditions utilized but a majority remains as MgO and FeO.

The MgO promoter particles are an inert material with no significant oxygen release capability under the conditions of this disclosure. Without being bound by theory it is believed that the MgO promoter particles participate in the catalytic decomposition of the gaseous hydrocarbon and significantly improve the rate of combustion thereby improving the oxidation ability of the metal oxide particles comprising the oxygen carrier. This improvement is achieved by the catalytic decomposition of methane producing carbon carbon monoxide and hydrogen which oxidize over the metal oxide to generate COand HO.

As an example when the metal oxide of the oxygen carrier is FeOand the gaseous hydrocarbon is CH the main reactions on the metal oxide FeOwhen the oxygen carrier and the gaseous hydrocarbon are contacted at the temperatures of this disclosure are 12FeO CH CO 8FeO 2HO 8FeO CH CO FeO HO

However in addition the MgO promoter particles of the oxygen carrier provides catalytic decomposition of the methane and promotes concurrent carbon and hydrogen formation which further oxidize over the FeO CH C 2H catalyzed by MgO 2C 12FeO 2CO 8FeO C 2FeO CO 4FeO 4H 12FeO 4HO 8FeO H 2FeO HO 4FeO

The presence of the MgO promoter particles in the promoted oxide solid of this disclosure significantly increases the oxygen transfer of the metal oxide and greatly improves the reaction rate and percent of combustion of the gaseous hydrocarbon as compared to the metal oxide carrier acting alone. The addition of an inert material such as MgO can also increase the physical strength of the oxygen carrier. Thus the addition of MgO promoter particles increases the methane reactivity and physical stability of the oxygen carrier and has a potential for use improving industrial oxygen carriers for the chemical looping combustion process.

An oxygen carrier comprised of a promoted oxide solid containing FeOand MgO was evaluated over fifteen cycle TGA combustion performance of oxygen carriers prepared by the various preparation methods with 20 methane balance He at 800 C. The addition of MgO containing materials to FeOincreased the methane reactivity and physical stability of the oxygen carrier and the presence of MgO indicated a strong improvement in combustion over a pure FeOspecies alone.

Magnesium hydroxide Mg OH and FeO Hematite were commercially obtained from Sigma Aldrich Co. LLC St. Louis Mo. Dolomite CaMg CO was commercially obtained from Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. The oxygen carriers were prepared using several methods 

Physical mixing Samples were prepared by physical mixing the solids using a mortar and pestle. MgO containing materials with MgO weight loadings of 5 10 and 25 were physically mixed with FeOand then calcined at 850 C. in air for 3 hours. The calcined material was then crushed to 35 mesh 500 micron particle size.

Incipient wetness impregnation A concentration of nitrates of magnesium were mixed and dissolved in deionized water for 5 MgO weight loading on the FeO. The solution was then added drop wise to the FeOand maintained at 60 C. while stirring. The resulting paste was dried at 60 C. for 2 hr and calcined at 850 C. in air for 3 hours. The calcined samples were then crushed to 35 mesh 500 micron particle size.

TGA was conducted in a thermogravimetric analyzer TA Model 2050 to investigate the redox properties of the mixed oxygen carriers. Approximately 100 mg of sample was placed in a 5 mm deep 10 mm diameter crucible. The oxide mixture was heated in a quartz bowl to 800 or 900 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min in Ngas and a flow rate of 100 sccm. The sample was then maintained isothermal for the duration of the redox cycles. The reduction cycle consisted of 20 CHbalance nitrogen at 100 sccm the oxidation cycle consists of air at 100 sccm. The sample was purged in 100 sccm Nbetween each reduction and oxygen cycle to prevent mixing of methane and air.

The fractional reduction and oxidation was calculated using the TGA data defined as Fractional Reduction X M M M M where M is the instantaneous weight of metal oxide Mis the initial weight of the metal oxide and Mis the weight of metal oxide following reaction. The global rates of reactions dX dt were calculated by differentiating the fractional conversions X .

Fixed Bed lab scale reactor studies were carried out using a Micromeritics AutochemHP lab scale quartz reactor. Approximately 1.0 g of sample was placed in the stainless steel reactor coupled with a Pfeiffer Mass Spectrometer MS . The reactor effluent was monitored continuously for the MS responses corresponding to CH m z 16 HO m z 18 and CO m z 44 . The inlet flow of 100 He was maintained at a total flow rate of 60 cm min over the oxygen carriers at 101.3 kPa while heating from 25 to 800 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min. The sample was then maintained isothermal for the duration of the redox cycles. The reduction cycle consisted of 20 CHbalance He at 60 sccm while the oxidation cycle consisted of air at 60 sccm. The sample was purged in 60 sccm He between each reduction and oxygen cycle to prevent mixing of methane and air.

Results of the Fifteen Cycle TGA Tests for the CLC Reaction on 5 10 and 25 Dolomite MgO FeO hematite Oxygen Carriers 

Fifteen cycle TGA combustion performance of oxygen carriers prepared by the various preparation methods with 20 methane are summarized in Table 1. Data for cycles 2 8 and 15 are reported. The oxygen carrier preparation method is indicated as applicable by Note a and Note b . Percent combustion Comb. was based on the moles of CHintroduced to the lab scale reactor compared to the moles of COproduced and the global reaction rate Rate indicates the rate of conversion of moles CHto moles COper minute.

Pure unsupported FeOshowed a percentage combustion of 15.0 on cycle 2 and a global reaction rate of 0.31 min and the global reaction rate remained fairly constant during the 15 reduction cycles. The combustion percentage of FeOfrom 15.0 cycle 2 to 19.9 cycle 15 may possibly be the result of the changing surface area of the oxygen carrier. The MgO and dolomite though theoretically un reactive for the CLC combustion reaction show very low approximately 6 combustion of methane.

The addition of 5 MgO to FeOby the incipient wetness impregnation method increased the combustion percentage of FeOfrom 15.0 to 35.4 and the global reaction rate from 0.31 minto1.43 minon cycle 2. The combustion percentage 35.4 40.0 and global rate 1.43 1.34 min remained relatively constant through the 15 cycle tests. For the samples prepared by physical mixing of the 5 wt Mg OH and FeOthe combustion percentage 28.9 was similar to that of the carrier prepared by the impregnation method 35.4 but there was a slight increase in reaction rate from 1.43 minto 1.69 min.

Increasing the amount of MgO loading on the FeO cycle 2 data resulted in an increase in combustion percentage from 35.4 5 loading to 40.6 25 loading . The overall trend in Table 1 shows that increasing the amount of MgO containing material increases the oxygen transport capacity significantly. The addition of the MgO containing materials result in significantly higher global reaction rates than that of the pure unsupported FeOoxygen carrier even after 15 redox cycles.

The raw dolomite material contains 54.4 CaCOand 45.4 MgCO. Calcination of the dolomite material at 850 C. removes the COcomponent of dolomite producing 54.4 CaO and 45.6 MgO which was then mixed at 5 10 and 25 wt with Hematite. According to Table 1 The TGA data of the pure calcined dolomite indicates that dolomite alone is un reactive for CLC combustion. Addition of 5 wt dolomite to FeO hematite caused an increase in combustion percentage from 15.0 pure FeO to 31.6 and increased the global reaction rate from 0.31 to 1.37 min. Similar to the MgO FeOoxygen carriers the dolomite FeOoxygen carrier exhibited a significant increase in the global reaction rate by the addition of dolomite and the rate remained relatively stable on increasing number of reduction oxidation cycles. The combustion percentage also remained relatively stable during the cyclic tests. Examining Table 1 a global trend appears over all of the MgO FeOoxygen carriers The combustion percentage increases on an increasing number of reduction cycles similar to that of the pure FeOmaterial. This is consistent with the inert materials promoting carbon formation and the oxidation to COoccurring by the reaction of carbon and FeOoxygen carrier.

Thus the disclosure herein provides an oxygen carrier comprised of a promoted oxide solid where the promoted oxide solid is comprised of a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO promoter particles. The MgO promoter particles increase the reaction rate and oxygen utilization of the metal oxide when contacting with a gaseous hydrocarbon at a temperature greater than about 725 C. The promoted oxide solid is generally comprised of between 5 wt. and 25 wt. MgO and may be prepared by physical mixing incipient wetness impregnation or other methods known in the art for generating a plurality of metal oxide particles in contact with a plurality of MgO particles. The oxygen carrier exhibits a crystalline structure of the metal oxide and a crystalline structure of MgO under XRD crystallography and retains these crystalline structures over subsequent redox cycles. In an embodiment the metal oxide is FeOand the gaseous hydrocarbon is comprised of methane.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

