---

title: Implementing menu pages in a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system can generate or utilize a social menu in a social network page. The social menu can be generated based on a crowd-sourced user interaction, an external database of business offerings, an administrator interface of the social network page, or any combination thereof. A user interaction of one user account with a menu item of a social menu can be presented to another user account. A user account can select the menu item by querying the social networking system for creating a reference link to the menu item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495714&OS=09495714&RS=09495714
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09495714
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This invention relates generally to a social networking system and in particular to providing a social listing of products or services in a social networking system.

Social networking systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to interact within their social networks. A social networking system user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. A variety of relationships can be monitored within a social networking system including connections amongst the users and social objects within the social networking system such as between a user to another user between a user to a social object and between a social object to another social object. A social object may be for example one or more of a social networking system user a non person entity a content item a group a social network page an event a message a subject such as persons places things abstract ideas or concepts a multimedia or any combination thereof.

One category of a relationship monitored by the social networking system is a page connection. The page connection is a connection between a user account and a social network page. The social network page is a portal for an entity to interact with the social networking system users. The social network page can represent an entity a brand an individual a business a group an organization or any combination of. The page connection can be used in advertisement news feed data collection and a variety of other tasks. The social network page made with traditional systems is often entirely managed by an administrator of that social network page. The multimedia contents of the social network page are individually labeled by the poster of the multimedia contents with no relation to other multimedia contents of the past. This type of content management for the social network page may limit the richness of interactivity presented and captured through the social networking system. The complexity of the social network page is often discouraged by the need for simplicity of user experience. Thus there is a need for a solution that provides a more enjoyable and useful experience to social networking system users in regards to a social network page.

Embodiments of this disclosure generate and utilize social menus in a social network page. Social menus are content structures for organizing a listing of relevant items and objects associated with the social network page or a brand represented by the social network page. The social menus each include a set of menu items. The listing can include offerings of physical goods real or movable property services virtual goods virtual services virtual property or any combination thereof. For example the social menus can be catalogues restaurant menus service listing movie selection or any combination thereof.

The social network page the social menus and the menu items are structured data within a social graph of a social networking system. The concept of the social graph is further explained below.

The social menus and the social network page can be displayed off of the social networking system. The social menus can be displayed via an Application Programming Interface API a social plug ins or iFrames. Third party developers may enable users of the social networking system to express interest in web pages social menus or menu items hosted on websites external to the social network system. These web pages social menus or menu items may be represented as objects in a social graph of the social networking system as a result of embedding a widget a social plug in programmable logic or code snippet into the web pages of the external websites such as an iFrame. As a result users may interact with the social menus and the menu items external to the social network system that are relevant to a keyword or keyword phrase such as Beef Taco or Dinner Menu. Each of the interactions with an object such as a menu item may be recorded by the social network system as an edge. Enabling third party developers to define custom object types and custom action types is further described in a related application Structured Objects and Actions on a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 13 239 340 filed on Sep. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference. Defining custom object types can include defining custom menu items and social menus. Defining custom action types can include defining custom activities that the user accounts can claim to have with a menu item such as drinking eating buying or watching a menu item.

The social menus can be generated from the administrator of the social network page. The social menus can also be generated by importing a database of goods and services offered by real world entities where the entities can be correlated with existing social network pages. For example the database of goods and services can include YELP WIKIPEDIA OPENTABLE SINGLEPLATFORM other digitized menu pages or any combination thereof. In some embodiments all or parts of the social menus can be generated by crowd sourcing such as by querying users about particular menu items that they have interacted with.

Each social network page can have multiple social menus. Social network pages can share a single social menu. Each social menu can have multiple sub menus or sections. Each menu or sub menu can have multiple menu items. Each menu item can have different specific variants such as flavor color size etc. The social menus and the menu items have menu pages and item pages respectively. Each of the menu pages or the item pages can include a name a profile representation e.g. a profile picture a description a price a social context other relevant information or any combination thereof. Each of the social menu the sub menu and menu item are objects represented by structured data in the social networking system described in the Social Networking System Overview section below.

The social menus are integrated throughout the social networking system. A type ahead module allows a user to quickly search for social menus and social menu items that are relevant to the user. The relevancy of the social menu can be determined by an explicit report from a user account of the user such as a check in into a restaurant page or other place page. The relevancy can also be determine by an external report such a tag or a mention of the user account to the social network page or the social menu by a friend account of the user account. Further the relevancy can be determined by other indirect data such as a GPS location of a user device accessing the user account or a known location of an event the user account is participating in.

Although it has been illustrated as examples in the figures and the detailed description that the social menus are provided for the social network page it is within the scope of this invention that the social menu can be used with other entities within the social graph. For example a user account can also have a social menu for providing offerings of an individual user. The individual user can be associated with a social menu. The profile of the individual user can include the social menu. The social menu of the individual user can include a listing of items or objects offered by the individual user. For example the social menu of the individual user can be a list of used items for sale or a list of contracting services provided by the individual user.

The social networking system disclosed herein may promote specific user interactions with the social menus and the menu items in the social network page based on the disclosed mechanisms. The social networking system further captures additional information about interactions between users and specific menu items of the social network page. For example the social network page structures a record of interactions around a common menu item that relates to each of the interactions. Accordingly embodiments of the invention are discovered to improve upon the social interaction analytics technology of social networking systems and improve the customization of businesses having a social network page.

Some embodiments have other aspects elements features and steps in addition to or in place of what is described above. These potential additions and replacements are described throughout the rest of the specification

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Social networking systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to interact with objects and other users both within and external to the context of the social networking system. A social networking system user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. The social networking system may utilize a web based interface comprising a series of inter connected pages displaying and allowing users to interact with social networking system objects and information. For example a social networking system may display a page for each social networking system user comprising objects and information entered by or related to the social networking system user e.g. the user s profile . Social networking systems may also contain pages containing pictures or videos dedicated to concepts dedicated to users with similar interests groups or containing communications or social networking system activity to from or by other users. Social network pages may contain links to other social network pages and may include additional capabilities such as search real time communication content item uploading purchasing advertising and any other web based technology or ability. It should be noted that a social networking system interface may be accessible from a web browser or a non web browser application such as a dedicated social networking system mobile device or computer application. Accordingly page as used herein may be a web page an application interface or display a widget displayed over a web page or application a box or other graphical interface an overlay window on another page whether within or outside the context of a social networking system or a web page external to the social networking system with a social networking system plug in or integration capabilities.

As discussed above a social graph includes a set of nodes representing social networking system objects also known as social objects interconnected by edges representing interactions activity or relatedness . In some embodiments the edges can be represented as bi directional. In other embodiments the edges can be represented as directional. For example a user node checking into a social network page for a place can be represented by either a bi directional edge between the user node and the social network page or a directional edge from the user node to the social network page. In some embodiments the social graph can be stored separately for user interactions of a specific kind. In other embodiments the social networking system stores the social graph without discriminating the type of user interactions.

A social networking system object may be a social networking system user nonperson entity content item group social network page a social menu a sub menu of the social menu a menu item in the social menu location application subject concept or other social networking system object such as a movie a band or a book. Content items include anything that a social networking system user or other object may create upload edit or interact with such as messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages comment messages messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique an HTTP link HTML files images videos audio clips documents document edits calendar entries or events and other computer related files. Subjects and concepts in the context of a social graph comprise nodes that represent any person place thing or abstract idea.

A social networking system may allow a user to enter and display information related to the user s interests education and work experience contact information and other biographical information in the user s profile page. Each school employer interest for example music books movies television shows games political views philosophy religion groups or fan pages geographical location network or any other information contained in a profile page may be represented by a node in the social graph. A social networking system may allow a user to upload or create pictures videos documents songs or other content items and may allow a user to create and schedule events. Content items and events may be represented by nodes in the social graph.

A social networking system may provide a variety of means to interact with nonperson objects within the social networking system. For example a user may form or join groups or become a fan of a fan page within the social networking system. In addition a user may create download view upload link to tag edit or play a social networking system object. A user may interact with social networking system objects outside of the context of the social networking system. For example an article on a news web site might have a like button that users can click. In each of these instances the interaction between the user and the object may be represented by an edge in the social graph connecting the node of the user to the node of the object. A user may use location detection functionality such as a GPS receiver on a mobile device to check in to a particular location and an edge may connect the user s node with the location s node in the social graph.

Social networking systems allow users to associate themselves and establish connections with other users of the social networking system. When two users explicitly establish a connection in the social networking system they become friends or connections within the context of the social networking system. Being friends in a social networking system may allow users access to more information about each other than would otherwise be available to unconnected users. For instance being friends may allow a user to view another user s profile to see another user s friends or to view pictures of another user. Likewise becoming friends within a social networking system may allow a user greater access to communicate with another user such as by email internal and external to the social networking system instant message text message phone or any other communicative interface. Finally being friends may allow a user access to view comment on download endorse or otherwise interact with another user s uploaded content items. Establishing connections accessing user information communicating and interacting within the context of the social networking system may be represented by an edge between the nodes representing two social networking system users.

In addition to explicitly establishing a connection in the social networking system users with common characteristics may be considered connected for the purposes of determining social context for use in determining the topic of communications. In one embodiment users who belong to a common network are considered connected. For example users who attend a common school work for a common company or belong to a common social networking system group may be considered connected. In one embodiment users with common biographical characteristics are considered connected. For example the geographic region users were born in or live in the age of users the gender of users and the relationship status of users may be used to determine whether users are connected. In one embodiment users with common interests are considered connected. For example users movie preferences music preferences political views religious views or any other interest may be used to determine whether users are connected. In one embodiment users who have taken a common action within the social networking system are considered connected. For example users who endorse or recommend a common object who comment on a common content item or who RSVP to a common event may be considered connected. A social networking system may utilize a social graph to determine users who are connected with a particular user in order to determine or evaluate the social context of the communications of the particular user.

In one embodiment the social network system can compute affinity scores for users interests either explicitly expressed or otherwise inferred on the social network system and use these affinity scores to establish additional connections in the social network system such as in ranking new menu items that will be published in news feeds or other communication channels on the social network system. Affinity scoring with coefficients are further discussed in Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 and Top Friend Prediction for Users in a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 13 093 744 filed on Apr. 25 2011 which are both incorporated by reference.

A social networking system may provide a variety of communication channels to users. For example a social networking system may allow a user to email instant message or text SMS message one or more other users may allow a user to post a message to the user s wall or profile or another user s wall or profile may allow a user to post a message to a group or a fan page or may allow a user to comment on an image wall post or other content item created or uploaded by the user or another user. In one embodiment a user posts a status message to the user s profile indicating a current event state of mind thought feeling activity or any other present time relevant communication. A social networking system may allow users to communicate both within and external to the social networking system. For example a first user may send a second user a message within the social networking system an email through the social networking system an email external to but originating from the social networking system an instant message within the social networking system and an instant message external to but originating from the social networking system. Further a first user may comment on the profile page of a second user or may comment on objects associated with a second user such as content items uploaded by the second user.

The social networking system can include a social menu in a social network page. The social menu is defined as a content structure for organizing a listing of relevant items and objects associated with the social network page or a brand represented by the social network page. Each of the relevant item or object is a menu item. The listing can include physical goods real or movable property services virtual goods virtual services virtual property or any combination thereof. The social menu and the menu items can be displayed or accessed by a third party website. A listing of the relevant items and objects on a third party website can correspond to the menu items on the social networking system via a social plug in iFrame or an application programming interface of the social networking system as described in the applications incorporated by reference above. For example the social menus can be catalogues restaurant menus service listing movie selection or any combination thereof. A menu item is defined as a content entry within the social menu for a specific item offered by the social network page. The menu item is a structured data associated with an object in the social graph of the social networking system. The structured data can be stored as a node in the social graph and connections with the structured data can be stored as an edge in the social graph.

Referring now to therein is shown an illustration of a social networking system with a mechanism to generate and modify social menus. The social networking system can be a social networking system as described in the overview.

The social networking system can include a menu composer module that operates within the social networking system to generate a social menu . The social menu can reside within a social network page . The social menu can also be shared between several social network pages. For example for a franchise business a social network page for a San Francisco location can share the social menu with a social network page for a Denver location.

Particularly if two social network pages share the social menu they can still have different menu item details. For example the social menu for the San Francisco location may have different prices for their menu items compared to the Denver location. For another example the San Francisco location may have specific menu items or menu item variants that are not available in the Denver location. In at least one embodiment for the menu items that are shared even if the prices differ the social context of the shared social menu and or the menu items are also shared. Social context can include a number of people who has interacted with the shared menu items a number of people who have liked the shared menu items or other social context derived from user interactions with the shared menu items.

The social network page can be the social network page as described in the overview. The social menu can include a menu item . The menu item is an individual entry of an item or object associated with the social network page . The social menu can also include a sub menu . The sub menu is a structured data on the social graph representing a section of the social menu that contains one or more menu items in a category designated by an administrator of the social network page . The sub menu can also include another sub menu. For example the sub menu can be a sub menu section for a lunch menu at a restaurant or a sub menu section for a spring time menu at a restaurant. The sub menu can also be for example an appetizer menu or a desserts menu. The menu item can include different variants as well. The variants can either be listed as different menu item or can be a sub category of the same menu item. For example if the menu item is a pair of jeans different sizes or colors of the pair of jeans can be considered a variant of the menu item .

For illustrative purposes the social menu is referred to as a menu for restaurants but it is understood that the social menu is applicable for any type of social network pages such as a product store a service provider a distributor an event or a marketplace where the social menu can be a catalogue a service listing a products listing a booth listing a goods listing or any combination thereof.

The menu composer module can generate the social menu from an external database an administrator interface user accounts or any combination thereof. The external database is a database store having records of business offerings by an entity having offerings available to others. As a specific example the external database can be Single Platform an online offering listing for businesses. The menu composer module can import the online offering listing to create the social menu . Each particular business in the external database is correlated with known social network pages to identify the social network page that represents the particular business.

The social menu can be a brand new social menu or can be an existing social menu that is supplemented by the external database . In the case that the social menu is the brand new social menu each offering listed by the external database for the particular business is added to the social menu as a menu item such as the menu item . In the case that the social menu is the existing social menu each offering is determined to correspond to an existing menu item such as the menu item . The description and profile of the offering is then added to the menu item .

The social menu can be generated by the administrator interface . The administrator interface is used by an administrator account which is a user account in the social networking system with administrative rights to configure the social network page . The administrator interface via the social networking system can configure the social network page including creating one or more social menus for the social network page . Aside from generating the social menus of the social network page the administrator interface allows the configuration of existing social menus such as the social menu . For example the structural layout of the social menu including listing of the menu items and layers of sub menus can be configured through the administrator interface . The administrator interface can be accessed through an application programming interface API such that other computer software modules or hardware modules can interface with the administrator interface to create or modify the social menu .

The social menu can also be generated by crowd sourcing the user accounts . The user accounts are nodes on the social graph of the social networking system . The user accounts can interact with the social network page through the social networking system . User interactions received at the social networking system can trigger the menu composer module to query one of the user accounts regarding which menu item that the one user account has interacted with. These user interactions can include check ins and tagging of the one user account to the social network page . The one user account can respond back with a menu item name. When the menu item name is not recognized the user account has the option of creating the menu item for the social network page .

Once the social menu is generated the social menu can be utilized by the user accounts on the social networking system . The social menu can be a node or a sub node on the social graph described in the overview. Interactions between the user accounts and the social menu can be communicated and managed through a menu interface module .

The menu interface module can help the user accounts identify which menu items the user accounts are interacting with and how the user accounts are interacting with the menu items. For example the user accounts can claim to eat drink watch buy or listen to any of the menu items in the social menu . In a specific example as part of a check in a user account for a user Matt can claim that he is eating nachos at Teddy s Nacho Royale where nachos is a menu item and Teddy s Nacho Royale is a social network page with a social menu.

The menu item is represented by an item page on the social graph of the social networking system . The item page can include a profile representation multimedia files a profile name a profile description a social context a configuration setting a review rating an authenticity confidence score or any combination thereof. The item page can include other additional information or reference links to information relating to the menu item the social menu the social network page or any combination thereof.

The profile representation is a multimedia file representative of the menu item such as a profile picture. It is understood that the profile representation can not only be a still picture but can also be an animated video clip an interactive media a logo a word or a phrase. The profile representation can be selected by the administrator account through the administrator interface . The profile representation can also be selected automatically by the menu composer module from a bank of the multimedia files uploaded by the user accounts . For example based on a number of metrics measuring interactions with the multimedia files of the menu item one of the multimedia files can be selected as the profile representation . The metrics can be weighted giving more weight to certain social interactions such as likes and recommendations .

The multimedia files are multimedia files uploaded by the administrator account or the user accounts tagging the menu item . The multimedia files can be picture files video files audio files interactive media files application widget phrases or any combination thereof. The user accounts can explicitly tag what activity is captured in the uploaded multimedia files such as that a user account is eating or drinking the menu item in an uploaded photograph.

The profile name is a title of the menu item . The profile name is generated when the menu item is generated either through the administrator interface the user accounts or the external database . The profile name can be used by the menu interface module to refer to the menu item such as when a user account is making a reference to the menu item . The profile description is a description of the menu item including at least a textual description.

The social context is an indication of social activities around the menu item . The social context can be an interaction history with the menu item by the user accounts . For example the social context can be a count of and references to user accounts who have liked the menu item a count of and references to user accounts who have posted comments about the menu item a count of and references to user accounts who have recommended the menu item a count of and references to user accounts who have posted at least one of the multimedia files for the menu item or any combination thereof.

The configuration setting is a set of configuration parameters established through the administrator interface . The configuration setting is only visible to the user accounts with administrator privileges to the social menu or the social network page such as the administrator account. The configuration setting can include a restriction of who can see the menu item whether the menu item is listed in the social menu of the social network page whether the user accounts have the privilege to add to the multimedia files and make other changes to the menu item or any combination thereof. The configuration setting can include an indication of what kind of direct interaction user accounts can have with the menu item . For example the configuration setting can indicate that the menu item is a food item to be consumed that the menu item is a beverage item for drinking that the menu item is a food item for eating or that the menu item is a movie to be watched.

The review rating is a crowd sourced indication of the popularity or the quality of the menu item . For example the review rating can be determined based on the count of how many user accounts recommended the menu item the count of how many user accounts liked the menu item or any combination thereof.

The authenticity confidence score is a system indication of how likely a crowd sourced addition to the social menu such as the menu item is an authentic menu item for the social network page . If the menu item is established by the administrator interface then the authenticity confidence score is at its highest. If the menu item is established by the user accounts or the external database then the authenticity confidence score may be based on a variety of factors. These factors include a number of tags to the menu item a number of user accounts who have tagged the menu item at least once a number of mark as spam events on the menu item a number of positive interactions with the menu item including likes recommends comments and shares a number of menu item tags for the social network page a number of menu items marked as spam for the social network page or any combination thereof. The authenticity confidence score can be used by a filter module to remove menu items from the social menu as described further below.

The social menu is represented by a menu page . The menu page can have all of the same contents as the item page except instead of referring to the menu item the contents of the menu page would refer to the social menu as a whole.

Referring now to therein is shown a high level block diagram of a system environment suitable for a social networking system according to one embodiment.

The system environment shown in includes the social networking system a client device A and a network channel . The system environment can include other client devices as well such as a client device B and a client device C. In other embodiments the system environment may include different and or additional components than those shown by . The social networking system can be the social networking system of .

The social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users and or objects. In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to other users or objects of the social networking system to which they desire to be connected. Users of the social networking system may be individuals or entities such as businesses organizations universities manufacturers. The social networking system allows its users to interact with each other as well as with other objects maintained by the social networking system . In some embodiments the social networking system allows users to interact with third party websites and a financial account provider .

Based on stored data about users objects and connections between users and or objects the social networking system generates and maintains a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph represents an object or user that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

The client device A is a computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network channel . In one embodiment the client device A is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment the client device A may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone a tablet a smart phone or similar device. In yet another embodiment the client device A can be a virtualized desktop running on a cloud computing service. The client device A is configured to communicate with the social networking system and or the financial account provider via the network channel . In one embodiment the client device A executes an application allowing a user of the client device A to interact with the social networking system . For example the client device A executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device A and the social networking system via the network channel . In another embodiment a the client device A interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device A such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client device A is configured to communicate via the network channel which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network channel uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network channel may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network channel may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network channel may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The social networking system shown by includes a profile store a content store an action logger an action log an edge store an account store a menu composer module a menu interface module and a web server . In other embodiments the social networking system may include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system architecture.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in the profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the edge store .

A user profile may be associated with one or more financial accounts allowing the user profile to include data retrieved from or derived from a financial account. A user may specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in the user profile. The privacy settings allow the user to limit how any information regarding the user is collected stored shared or any combination thereof. The privacy settings can limit information from a financial account that the social networking system is permitted to access. For example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to accessing the transaction history of the financial account and not the current account balance. As another example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to a subset of the transaction history of the financial account allowing the social networking system to access transactions within a specified time range transactions involving less than a threshold transaction amounts transactions associated with specified vendor identifiers transactions associated with vendor identifiers other than specified vendor identifiers or any suitable criteria limiting information from a financial account identified by a user that is accessible by the social networking system . In one embodiment information from the financial account is stored in the profile store . In other embodiments it may be stored in the account store .

The content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos or audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social network system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system.

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities having user profiles in the profile store . An entity is a non individual user of the social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a social networking system user. For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. Vendors may be associated with pages in the content store allowing social networking system users to more easily interact with the vendor via the social networking system . A vendor identifier is associated with a vendor s page allowing the social networking system to identify the vendor and or to retrieve additional information about the vendor from the profile store the action log or from any other suitable source using the vendor identifier. In some embodiments the content store may also store one or more targeting criteria associated with stored objects and identifying one or more characteristics of a user to which the object is eligible to be presented.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments the action logger receives subject to one or more privacy settings transaction information from a financial account associated with a user and identifies user actions from the transaction information. For example the action logger retrieves vendor identifiers from the financial account s transaction history and identifies an object such as a page in the social networking system associated with the vendor identifier. This allows the action logger to identify a user s purchases of products or services that are associated with a page or another object in the content store . In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external website that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites and or determined from a financial account associated with the user. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a the social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying. Actions identified by the action logger from the transaction history of a financial account associated with the user allow the action log to record further information about additional types of user actions.

In one embodiment the edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects. The edge store can store the social graph described. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the profile store or the profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The social networking system includes the menu composer module . The menu composer module can be the menu composer module of . The menu composer module can access the stores and modules of the social networking system in order to generate or modify social menus. The menu composer module can receive user interactions from the client device A for generating social menus via crowd sourcing. As social menus are generated and stored the menu composer module can also work with other modules and stores of the social networking system to utilize the social menus to select contents to display to the client device A.

The social networking system also includes the menu interface module . The menu interface module can be the menu interface module of . The menu interface module facilitates user interactions with the social menus and menu items in the social menu.

Referring now to therein is shown a control flow of a social networking system with a menu composer module . The social networking system can be the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The menu composer module can be the menu composer module of or the menu composer module of . The menu composer module is for generating or modifying a social menu for a social network page. The social menu can be the social menu of . The social menu can be stored in the social graph such as in the edge store of .

The menu composer module can be implemented by a computer system with at least one processor and one non transitory memory. The menu composer module can also be on the same computer system as the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The menu composer module can be implemented by a computer system of .

The menu composer module can include one or more methods of generating or modifying the social menus for a social network page. The one or more methods can be implemented by components storages and modules described below. The modules can be implemented as hardware components software modules or any combination thereof. For example the modules described can be software modules implemented as instructions on a non transitory memory capable of being executed by a processor or a controller on a machine described in .

Each of the modules can operate individually and independently of other modules. Some or all of the modules can be combined as one module. A single module can also be divided into sub modules each performing separate method step or method steps of the single module. The modules can share access to a memory space. One module can access data accessed by or transformed by another module. The modules can be considered coupled to one another if they share a physical connection or a virtual connection directly or indirectly allowing data accessed or modified from one module to be accessed in another module as illustrated by the line or arrow connections in .

The storages or stores described in this disclosure are hardware components or portions of hardware components for storing digital data. Each of the storage can be a single physical entity or distributed through multiple physical devices. Each of the storage can be on separate physical device or share the same physical device or devices. Each of the stores can allocate specific storage spaces for run time applications.

The menu composer module can include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The menu composer module generates social menus and stores them at a menu store . The menu store can be part of the edge store of . Contents of the menu store can be part of the content store of . Profiles of the social menus can be part of the profile store of .

The menu composer module includes three main types of modules that generate or modify social menus. The menu composer module includes an import module . The import module is for importing business entity entries including a list of offerings from an external database such as the external database of . The import module can correlate database entries of the external database with existing social menus and existing social network pages on the social networking system . The social network pages can be located from the profile store or the edge store .

The menu composer module includes a page editor module . The page editor module is for configuring a social network page. Configuring the social network page includes adding a social menu to the social network page and modifying the existing social menu on the social network page. The page editor module can edit the social network page through an administrator interface such as the administrator interface of . The administrator account can also merge social menus together as well as delete or deactivate i.e. put into hibernation a social menu. The page editor module allows re naming of the menu item or the social menu. The page editor module also provides an interface to add or modify a social menu profile or a menu item profile.

The menu composer module can include a crowd source module . The crowd source module is for obtaining social menu modifications and new social menus from user interactions such as user interactions recorded on the action log of . The crowd source module can provide an interface to obtain new social menus from social reporting of user accounts such as the user accounts of . One type of explicit reporting interface is a button on the social network page that initiates a process to create a social menu.

For another example the process of creating the social menu can be initiated by querying the user account about a user interaction with the social network page when the user account explicitly declares an association with the social network page such as a check in a like or a mention that references the social network page in a communication on the social networking system . The user account can also be queried when the user account tags the social network page in any multimedia file uploads. Querying the user account includes qualifying and clarifying what menu activity is involved in the user interaction that created the association between the user account and the social network page. For example the user account can respond by stating that the user account was involved in drinking the menu item.

The process of creating the social menu can also be initiated without an explicit user interaction. For example when a friend account of the user account tags the social network page and the user account on an uploaded photograph the user account can be queried about the user interaction with the social network page. Also when a location of the user account e.g. a residence location a GPS location or a participated event location is proximate to a location of the user network page the user account can also be queried about the user interaction with the social network page.

When querying the user account about a specific user interaction the crowd source module can activate a type ahead module . The type ahead module is for identifying a reference to a specific menu item of a social menu of the social network page based on a typed query from the user account. The type ahead module can list all relevant menu items specific to the user account and the social network page when the typed query is left blank.

In one example the user account can provide an input in the typed query including a name of a menu item that the user account has interacted with. The type ahead module can auto complete and generate potential menu items that match the typed query. The type ahead module can allow the user account to create a menu item when none of the potential menu items matches the actual menu item that the user account has interacted with. In this case the name of the menu item that the user account inputs to the type ahead module can become an item name of the newly generated menu item. The user account has the option of filling in an item profile of the newly generated menu item. The user account can also upload a picture to become a profile representation of the newly generated menu item such as the profile representation of .

The page editor module can allow the administrator account to turn off the crowd source module for a specific social menu or a specific menu item. The page editor module can also make the specific social menu secret. A secret social menu or a secret menu item can be discovered through the type ahead module but is not listed on the social network page any news feed or a non secret social menu.

The menu composer module includes a filter module . The filter module is for identifying target menu items that are to be removed such as target menu items that are spam. A set of criteria is used to identify whether a target menu item for a social network page in the menu store is spam. For example the set includes a number of tags or references to the target menu item recorded on the social networking system a number of user accounts who have tagged the target menu item at least once a number of marked as spam events on the target menu item a number of menu items having been marked as spam at least once of the social network page a number of like to the target menu item a number of unique menu items created for the social network page or any combination thereof. The filter module for example can use the authenticity confidence score of in the profile information of the target menu items to identify the target menu items to remove. A target menu item having the authenticity confidence score below a pre defined threshold can mean that the target menu item is to be removed.

The techniques introduced in the modules herein can be implemented by programmable circuitry programmed or configured by software and or firmware or they can be implemented by entirely by special purpose hardwired circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Such special purpose circuitry if any can be in the form of for example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc.

Referring now to therein is shown a control flow of a social networking system with a menu interface module . The social networking system can be the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The menu interface module can be the menu interface module of or the menu interface module of . The menu interface module is for facilitating user interactions with a social menu or a menu item stored on a menu store . The social menu can be linked to at least one social network page. The social menu can be the social menu of . The menu item can be the menu item of . The menu store can be the menu store of .

The menu interface module can be implemented by a computer system with at least one processor and one non transitory memory. The menu interface module can also be on the same computer system as the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The menu interface module can be implemented by a computer system of .

The menu interface module can include one or more methods of facilitating user interactions with the social menu or the menu item . The one or more methods can be implemented by components storages and modules described below. The modules can be implemented as hardware components software modules or any combination thereof. For example the modules described can be software modules implemented as instructions on a non transitory memory capable of being executed by a processor or a controller on a machine described in .

Each of the modules can operate individually and independently of other modules. Some or all of the modules can be combined as one module. A single module can also be divided into sub modules each performing separate method step or method steps of the single module. The modules can share access to a memory space. One module can access data accessed by or transformed by another module. The modules can be considered coupled to one another if they share a physical connection or a virtual connection directly or indirectly allowing data accessed or modified from one module to be accessed in another module as illustrated by line or arrow connections in .

The menu interface module can include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The menu interface module facilitates user interactions received from a client interface . The client interface can include a web server . The web server can be the web server of . The client interface can include an API module . The API module is for providing an application programming interface API of communication between any external device operating system or software and the social networking system . For example the API module can communicate with a widget from another website or a mobile application. The client interface can include a mobile server . The mobile server can be a server for providing social networking services to mobile devices. The mobile server can be the same server as the web server . The mobile server can be the web server of .

The menu interface module includes a reference module a tag module and a claim module to facilitate user interactions. The menu interface module can also include a feed module and a page module to present information to user accounts based on the user interactions. One type of user interaction that is facilitated by the reference module the tag module or the claim module includes user accounts selecting the social menu or the menu item through a type ahead module . User interactions recorded through the reference module the tag module and the claim module can also be analyzed and reported to an administrator account of a social network page through an analytics module .

The reference module is for providing a reference link to the social menu or the menu item . User accounts can select the menu item or the social menu to reference through the type ahead module . The type ahead module provides a query box for users to enter a typed query to identify a target menu item. The type ahead module also presents a list of menu items that matches the typed query for user selection. The type ahead module can be the type ahead module of . The target menu item can be identified by matching names of menu items in the menu store .

The tag module is for providing an interface for a user account to tag the social menu or the menu item to a social object in the social networking system such as a multimedia file or a stored communication. The social menu or the menu item can be identified through the type ahead module . For example the user account can upload a picture of a burrito to the social networking system . In the example the tag module can allow the user account to tag the picture with the social menu of a Mexican restaurant and to tag the picture specifically with the menu item which is a chicken burrito.

The claim module is for facilitating a direct action from the user account to the social network page. This direct action involves claiming an interaction with an object or item associated with the social network page in the social menu such as the menu item . The menu item can be identified through the type ahead module . Claiming includes reserving purchasing renting selling bidding capturing eating drinking obtaining listening other forms of offer claiming or any combination thereof. For each of the menu item claimed the claim module can report out to the administrator account of the social menu having the menu item . An inventory of the social menu can be automatically tracked based on the claims received from the claim module . Reservation for the menu item can be stored as a reservation with the social network page with an indication of which of the menu item triggered the reservation.

The feed module is for generating a news feed story. The feed module can generate the news feed story based on a user interaction between the menu item and a social object in a social graph of a user account. First the feed module can receive the user interaction from the client interface . The feed module can then determine a relevancy score between the menu item and the user account based on the user interaction. Upon determining the relevancy score the feed module can present the menu item to the user account in the news feed story based on the relevancy score such as by thresholding the relevancy score. The news feed story can be published to an inbox of the user account a profile wall of the user account a time line of the user account or any combination thereof.

The page module is for displaying information about the social network page. The page module can present a social menu page of the social menu . For example the social menu page can be the social menu page of . The social menu page include a social menu profile a social context a review rating individual menu items reference links to item pages of the individual menu items or any combination thereof. Each of the menu items has a menu item page such as the item page of . The menu item page includes a profile representation a name title a description a social context a review rating multimedia files or any combination thereof.

The analytics module is for providing information about user interactions with the social menu and the menu item . For example whenever the reference module is used to reference the social menu or the menu item the analytics module can collect that referencing action for presentation to an administrator interface for an administrator account of the social menu to view. For example the administrator interface can include daily activity of the reference module daily activity of the tag module the daily activity of the claim module or any combination thereof.

The analytics module can also include metadata from the feed module and the page module . For example the analytics module can receive information about viewing time and responsiveness to the news feed story presented by the feed module . The analytics module can also record responsive rate to the menu item based on different arrangement of the social menu page or the menu item page. The analytics module can update the administrator interface based on the viewing time records and the responsiveness records. It has been discovered that the analytics module can provide valuable business decision information for promoting the social menu or the menu item .

The techniques introduced in the modules herein can be implemented by programmable circuitry programmed or configured by software and or firmware or they can be implemented by entirely by special purpose hardwired circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Such special purpose circuitry if any can be in the form of for example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc.

Referring now to therein is shown an example illustration of a social network page having a menu page . The social network page can be the social network page of . The social network page can be generated by the page module of . The social network page can be a multi frame display. The social network page can also include layers. As illustrated the social network page includes a page name . The page name is a title of the social network page . The page name for example can be the name of the business entity that the social network page represents.

The social network page can also include a layer toggle . The layer toggle is an interactive button of the social network page for selecting a particular content of the social network page . As illustrated the layer toggle in is set to display the menu page .

The menu page is a formatted presentation of a social menu such as the social menu of . The menu page can be the menu page of . The menu page can include a layout of menu items. For example the menu page can include an item name . The item name is a title of a menu item in the social menu represented by the menu page such as the menu item of . The menu page can also include an item description . The item description describes the menu item corresponding to the item name . The menu page can also include an item variant of the menu item. The item variant is a label for a version of the item name . As illustrated the item variant is a customization of a food content in the burrito menu item.

The menu page can be shared bookmarked recommended or liked. For example a favorite button illustrates that the menu page is a favorite bookmarked social menu. A liked button illustrates that the menu page is liked and thus the user account accessing the social network page has explicitly subscribed to contents of the menu page . This subscription can also be available in a user profile of the user account. A shared button illustrates that the menu page has been shared by the user account accessing the social network page to other user accounts on a social networking system such as the social networking system of .

Referring now to therein are illustrated an example of a menu type ahead mechanism of a social networking system . illustrate a mobile update interface generated by the social networking system to facilitate a user activity update such as a check in or a profile status update. The mobile update interface can be generated on the social networking system and shown on a client device such as the client device A of .

When a social network page cannot be matched to the typed query the location prompt can be answered by a user description of his her current location. In the user has the option of entering the typed query Teddy as his current location. Whenever the type ahead module is used with the search box the user account can have the option of adding the typed query into the social networking system even if no match is made.

The mobile update interface can include an add person button an add location button and an add multimedia file button . The add person button allows the social networking system to prompt the user to add another user account who is with the user account . With here can refer to co location intent for co location or just an acknowledgement of presence. The added another user account is listed in the update message . The add location button allows the social networking system to generate the location prompt as illustrated by . The added location such as the social network page is also included in the update message . The add multimedia file button allows the social networking system to prompt the user account to include a multimedia file associated with the update message . The mobile update interface also allows the user account to add old favorite locations or social network pages to the update message by an add favorite button .

Referring now to therein are illustrated an example of a menu page . illustrates the menu page of a social menu such as the social menu of . The menu page can be interactive. The menu page can include a front page . The front page of the menu page can include a message from an administrator account of the menu page to advertise or promote particular menu items social menus or any other items or activities.

The menu page can also include a first tier sub menu . The first tier sub menu is a sub menu created by the administrator account of the menu page or by menu data received from an external database such as the external database of . For example the first tier sub menu can be a sub menu for a specific time of the week season time of the day or any combination thereof such as a Sunday Brunch menu.

Each of the sub menus can include a menu item . The menu item for example can include a profile representation . The profile representation can be the profile representation of . The menu item can also include a social context such as the social context of .

The item page can include reference links to other system generated sub menus. For example the item page can include a similar item sub menu and a recommendation sub menu . The similar item sub menu can be a sub menu generated from all menu items in the social menu based on categorical information of each of the menu items. The similar item sub menu can also be a sub menu across multiple social menus. For example categorical information of social menus can first be compared to find similar social menus in the same category. Then the similar item sub menu can be generated based on all menu items in the similar social menus based on categorical information of each of those menu items.

The recommendation sub menu is a sub menu generated from a social context of a social graph of a user account. For example the recommendation sub menu can be the sub menu generated from all menu items in the social menu based on recommendations or likes made within a first degree connection in the social graph of the user account. The user account can be the account that is currently viewing the item page .

Referring now to therein is shown is a flow chart of a method of operating a social networking system such as the social networking system of or the social networking system of in an embodiment. The method includes a method step of generating a social menu for a first social network page in a social networking computer system the social menu including a first menu item offered through the first social network page. The method step can be accomplished in several ways. In one embodiment the method step can be accomplished by importing a database including a business offering list of a business entity determining a correspondence between the business entity and the first social network page and generating the social menu from the business offering list. In some embodiments generating the social menu requires uploading a multimedia file as a profile picture of the first menu item. In other embodiments the profile picture can be uploaded by other user accounts subsequently.

In one embodiment the method step can be accomplished by generating the social menu by sharing the social menu from a second social network page. In another embodiment the method step can be accomplished by activating the social menu from hibernation wherein the hibernation prevented the social menu from being accessed in the social networking computer system. In yet another embodiment the method step can be accomplished by receiving an item interaction with the first menu item and adding the first menu item to the social menu based on the item interaction. The item interaction can be queried by the social networking computer system. For example the method step can include receiving a crowd interaction with the first social network page from a crowd account and querying the crowd account to specify the item interaction with the first menu item. Such crowd sourcing mechanism for generating the menu item can be disabled by an administrator account of the first social network page.

The method can include a method step of modifying the social menu. Modifying the social menu can include merging a second menu item with the first menu item. Modifying the social menu can also include modifying an accessibility of the first menu item by receiving a restriction requirement of who may access the first menu item through an administrator interface for the administrator account for the first social network page. The administrator interface for the administrator account of the social network page may be used to approve or disapprove other user account s modification of the first menu item such as an uploading of the profile picture.

The method also includes a method step of receiving a user interaction through a web server the user interaction between the first menu item and a social object in a social graph of a user account. The method then includes a method step of of determining a relevancy score between the first menu item and the user account based on the user interaction. This way the relevancy score is increased when a friend account of the user account has interacted with the first menu item. Determining the relevancy score can include determining whether the user account has interacted with a second menu item of an item type shared by the first menu item. Having interacted with the same item type the first menu item is more relevant to the user account. The method step can include increasing the relevancy score when the first social network page is a paid sponsor. Other factors in determining the relevancy score can include a proximity of the business entity of the social network page from a residence location of the user account an association strength of the social object to the user account a self described item preference of the user account or a predicted item preference of the user account determined by the social networking computer system.

Upon determining the relevancy score the method includes a method step of selecting the first menu item for presentation to the user account based on the relevancy score. The presentation can include a news story feed to the user account or an advertisement to the user account.

The method can also include a method step of removing the first menu item from the social menu. For example the method step can include receiving a mark as spam indication on the first menu item from the user account and tallying the mark as spam indication to determine whether to remove the first menu item from the social menu. The method can include removing the first menu item as spam based on a number of positive user interactions with the first menu item over a pre defined time period. In one embodiment if the number of positive user interactions is below a threshold then the first menu item is removed.

Referring now to therein is shown is a flow chart of a method of operating a social networking system such as the social networking system of or the social networking system of in yet another embodiment. The method includes a method step of receiving a typed query from a first user account through a web server. For example the typed query can be captured through the type ahead module of or the type ahead module of . Receiving the typed query can be in response to the first user account checking into a place location page.

The method then includes a method step of determining a social network page in a social networking computer system relevant for the first user account based on an account profile of the first user account. Once the social network page is determined the method includes a method step of determining a menu item of a social menu of the social network page from the typed query to facilitate a user selection from the social menu of the social network page. The menu item can be display in a list with other potential menu items that potentially matches the intended menu item based on the typed query. In at least one embodiment the menu item can be determined based on the typed query but is not listed on the social network page or the social menu.

The method can include a method step of calculating a confidence score of the menu item based on a recorded interaction history with the menu item in the social networking computer system. Then the method can include a method step of sorting the menu item to facilitate the user selection from the social menu based on the confidence score of the menu item.

The method further includes receiving the user selection of the menu item through the web server in a method step . The method step can include receiving the user selection of a specific variant of the menu item. For example the specific variant can include difference in color size meat type style device type or any combination thereof.

Upon receiving the user selection the method includes a method step of storing a user interaction with a reference link to the menu item on the social networking computer system the reference link to be referenced by a second user account. Storing the user interaction with the reference link can be part of sharing the reference link in a communication in the social networking computer system listing the reference link as part of an account profile of the first user account or using the reference link to tag an uploaded multimedia file or saved communication on the social networking computer system. The reference link can also be part of an announcement on the social networking computer system.

The user interaction stored includes the first user account claiming or directly interacting with the menu item such as purchasing reserving renting watching downloading installing bidding or any combination thereof. For reservation claiming of the menu item can be part of reserving a spot with the social network page where a reference to the menu item is included in the reservation.

The method can further include a method step of performing analytics on the menu item. The method step can include providing menu item analytics on an administrator account interface. The menu item analytics include a recorded interaction history between user accounts such as the user accounts of and the menu item. The menu item analytics can provide an administrator account of the social network page with valuable feedback information about the social menu or the menu item such as a number of tags a number of references made a number of claims made or any combination thereof. The method step can also include generating a similar item sub menu on the social network page for the user account based on the menu item. The similar item sub menu can be the similar item sub menu of .

Referring now to therein is shown a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies or modules discussed herein may be executed.

In the example of the computer system includes a processor memory non volatile memory and an interface device. Various common components e.g. cache memory are omitted for illustrative simplicity. The computer system is intended to illustrate a hardware device on which any of the components depicted in the example of and any other components described in this specification can be implemented. The computer system can be of any applicable known or convenient type. The components of the computer system can be coupled together via a bus or through some other known or convenient device.

This disclosure contemplates the computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

The processor may be for example a conventional microprocessor such as an Intel Pentium microprocessor or Motorola power PC microprocessor. One of skill in the relevant art will recognize that the terms machine readable storage medium or computer readable storage medium include any type of device that is accessible by the processor.

The memory is coupled to the processor by for example a bus. The memory can include by way of example but not limitation random access memory RAM such as dynamic RAM DRAM and static RAM SRAM . The memory can be local remote or distributed.

The bus also couples the processor to the non volatile memory and drive unit. The non volatile memory is often a magnetic floppy or hard disk a magnetic optical disk an optical disk a read only memory ROM such as a CD ROM EPROM or EEPROM a magnetic or optical card or another form of storage for large amounts of data. Some of this data is often written by a direct memory access process into memory during execution of software in the computer . The non volatile storage can be local remote or distributed. The non volatile memory is optional because systems can be created with all applicable data available in memory. A typical computer system will usually include at least a processor memory and a device e.g. a bus coupling the memory to the processor.

Software is typically stored in the non volatile memory and or the drive unit. Indeed for large programs it may not even be possible to store the entire program in the memory. Nevertheless it should be understood that for software to run if necessary it is moved to a computer readable location appropriate for processing and for illustrative purposes that location is referred to as the memory in this paper. Even when software is moved to the memory for execution the processor will typically make use of hardware registers to store values associated with the software and local cache that ideally serves to speed up execution. As used herein a software program is assumed to be stored at any known or convenient location from non volatile storage to hardware registers when the software program is referred to as implemented in a computer readable medium. A processor is considered to be configured to execute a program when at least one value associated with the program is stored in a register readable by the processor.

The bus also couples the processor to the network interface device. The interface can include one or more of a modem or network interface. It will be appreciated that a modem or network interface can be considered to be part of the computer system . The interface can include an analog modem ISDN modem cable modem token ring interface satellite transmission interface e.g. direct PC or other interfaces for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. The interface can include one or more input and or output devices. The I O devices can include by way of example but not limitation a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device disk drives printers a scanner and other input and or output devices including a display device. The display device can include by way of example but not limitation a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD or some other applicable known or convenient display device. For simplicity it is assumed that controllers of any devices not depicted in the example of reside in the interface.

In operation the computer system can be controlled by operating system software that includes a file management system such as a disk operating system. One example of operating system software with associated file management system software is the family of operating systems known as Windows from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and their associated file management systems. Another example of operating system software with its associated file management system software is the Linux operating system and its associated file management system. The file management system is typically stored in the non volatile memory and or drive unit and causes the processor to execute the various acts required by the operating system to input and output data and to store data in the memory including storing files on the non volatile memory and or drive unit.

Some portions of the detailed description may be presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or generating or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within registers and memories of the computer system into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the methods of some embodiments. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the techniques are not described with reference to any particular programming language and various embodiments may thus be implemented using a variety of programming languages.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone a Blackberry a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

While the machine readable medium or machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies or modules of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Further examples of machine readable storage media machine readable media or computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

In some circumstances operation of a memory device such as a change in state from a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa for example may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. With particular types of memory devices such a physical transformation may comprise a physical transformation of an article to a different state or thing. For example but without limitation for some types of memory devices a change in state may involve an accumulation and storage of charge or a release of stored charge. Likewise in other memory devices a change of state may comprise a physical change or transformation in magnetic orientation or a physical change or transformation in molecular structure such as from crystalline to amorphous or vice versa. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all examples in which a change in state for a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa in a memory device may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. Rather the foregoing is intended as illustrative examples.

A storage medium typically may be non transitory or comprise a non transitory device. In this context a non transitory storage medium may include a device that is tangible meaning that the device has a concrete physical form although the device may change its physical state. Thus for example non transitory refers to a device remaining tangible despite this change in state.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof when applying to modules of a system means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or any combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be embodied in other forms and manners not shown below. It is understood that the use of relational terms if any such as first second top and bottom and the like are used solely for distinguishing one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any such actual relationship or order between such entities or actions.

While processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided substituted combined and or modified to provide alternative or sub combinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed above or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using capitalization italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that same element can be described in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

The language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

