---

title: Amusement device including provision for tracking a player's top score
abstract: A method of tracking electronic game score information for a plurality of players participating in an amusement system is disclosed. The amusement system includes at least one amusement device communicating with a central server over a network. The amusement device has a display, a memory storing a plurality of electronic games and a controller. The central server maintains a plurality of player accounts corresponding to the plurality of players. Each of the player accounts includes best score information for at least one of the plurality of electronic games played by the respective player on the amusement device. The central server receives score update information associated with the player accounts from the amusement device and updates the player accounts with the received score update information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08696468&OS=08696468&RS=08696468
owner: AMI Entertainment Network, LLC
number: 08696468
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120801
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 515 162 filed on Aug. 4 2011 and entitled Amusement Device Including Provision for Tracking a Player s Top Score the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

Preferred embodiments of the present invention relate generally to electronic amusement devices and systems. More particularly preferred embodiments of the present invention are directed to an amusement system having player accounts for storing a player s best scores for games playable on the amusement system.

Amusement devices having electronic games for computers and touchscreens or other types of amusement devices are generally known in the art. Amusement devices such as game machines which allow a player to select games from a video display are known in the art such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 856 787 Itkis U.S. Pat. No. 5 575 717 Houriet Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 743 799 Houriet Jr. et al. each of which is incorporated by reference and shows a touchscreen for making a game selection from a menu of games. Such game machines or amusement devices typically operate upon input of currency i.e. coin token paper money credit debit cards or the like and are installed in locations such as bars restaurants airports shopping malls video arcades casinos or the like. The game choices may include card games sports games games of skill games of chance action games trivia games or the like. Typically the goal of such games is for the player to amass the highest possible score.

Previously amusement devices maintained only a select number of the overall highest scores for the game on a machine specific leaderboard. Often the leaderboard only maintained the top ten overall scores achieved on the machine since the leaderboard was last reset regardless of the player. Even when a player s best score appeared on a leaderboard of a first amusement device when the player accessed a second amusement device he could not easily compare his previous best score with any newly achieved scores. Compounding the problem is that leaderboards stored only on amusement devices are often reset. Operators often reset best scores on amusement devices to encourage higher turnover of players appearing on the leaderboards. In addition external events such as power interruptions can result in the leaderboard being reset.

It is therefore desirable to provide an amusement system capable of tracking a player s top scores for a plurality of electronic games across a plurality of amusement devices so that a player s top score information can be easily retrieved regardless of the amusement device the player is playing.

In one preferred embodiment of the present invention a method of tracking electronic game score information for a plurality of players participating in an amusement system is disclosed. The amusement system includes at least one amusement device communicating with a central server over a network. The amusement device has a display a memory storing a plurality of electronic games and a controller. The central server maintains a plurality of player accounts corresponding to the plurality of players. Each of the player accounts includes best score information for at least one of the plurality of electronic games played by the respective player on the amusement device. The central server receives score update information associated with the player accounts from the amusement device and updates the player accounts with the received score update information.

In another preferred embodiment of the present invention a method of tracking a first player s best score information for a plurality of electronic games played by the first player on a plurality of amusement devices is disclosed. Each of the amusement devices has a display a memory and a controller. The first amusement device receives log in information from the first player. The log in information is associated with the first player s player account stored by a central server. The first player s player account data including best score information is received by the first amusement device from the central server. Updates to the first player s player account are transmitted by the first amusement device to the central server. The update comprises new best score information generated based on the first player playing one or more of the plurality of electronic games on the first amusement device.

In yet another preferred embodiment of the present invention a method of tracking score information over a network in an amusement system is described. The amusement system includes a plurality of amusement devices connected to a central server over a network. Each amusement device has a display a memory and a controller. The central server maintains a plurality of player accounts corresponding to a plurality of players in a memory. Each of the player accounts store the respective player s best score information for at least one electronic game playable on the amusement devices. The central server receives score information associated with a first player account from a first amusement device over the network. The score information is determined based on receipt of scoring values from the amusement device at the central server. The scoring values are associated with game play on one or more of the plurality of electronic games by a first player associated with the first player account. The central server updates the first player account with the received score information. When the central server receives a log in request associated with the first player account from a second amusement device it transmits the updated first player account to the second amusement device in response to verifying the log in request.

In another aspect a preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method of tracking electronic game score information for a plurality of players including a first player and a second player participating in an amusement system. The amusement system includes a first amusement device and a second amusement device communicating with a central server over a network. The first and second amusement devices both having a video display a memory storing a plurality of electronic games and a controller. The method includes maintaining by the central server a plurality of player accounts corresponding to the plurality of players. The plurality of player accounts includes a first player account associated with the a first player. The first player account includes first best score information. The plurality of electronic games includes a first maximum points game and a first head to head game. The first best score information includes a first high score for the first maximum points game and a first lifetime win loss record for the first head to head game. First score update information associated with the first player account is received by the central server. The first best score information is compared by the central server with the received first score update information. A game listing of the plurality of electronic games including the first maximum points game and the first head to head game and a best score listing of the first best score information is displayed by the video display. The first maximum points game is positioned proximate the first high score and the first head to head game is positioned proximate the first lifetime win loss record in the display.

In yet another aspect a preferred embodiment of the present application is directed to a method of tracking first best score information of a first player for a plurality of electronic games played by the first player on a plurality of amusement devices including a first amusement device. The plurality of amusement devices connected via a central server. Each of the plurality of amusement devices having a display a memory and a controller. The method includes receiving first log in information associated with the first player and a first player account at the first amusement device. The first player account is stored by the central server. The first player account is receiving by the first amusement device the from the central server. The first player account includes first best score information. The first best score information has a first high score associated with a first maximum points game a second high score associated with a second maximum points game and a first lifetime win loss record associated with a first head to head game. An update to the first player account is transmitted by the first amusement device to the central server. The update includes first new best score information generated based on the first player playing one or more of the plurality of electronic games on the first amusement device. A game listing of the plurality of electronic games and a first best score listing of the first new best score information is displayed on a first video display of the first amusement device. The first high score is positioned proximate the first maximum points game the second high score is positioned proximate the second maximum points game and the first lifetime win loss record is positioned proximate the first head to head game.

In an additional aspect a preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to an amusement system for tracking game score information over a plurality of amusement devices for a plurality of players including a first player participating in game play. The amusement system includes a plurality of games available for game play including a first maximum points game and a first head to head game and a plurality of player accounts associated with the plurality of players including a first player account associated with the first player. The first player account includes first best score information. The first best score information includes a first high score for the first maximum points game and a first lifetime win loss record for the first head to head game. A central server stores the plurality of electronic games and the plurality of player accounts. The central server configured to receive first score update information associated with the first player account from a first amusement device of the plurality of amusement devices and access the first player account. The first score update information includes a first attained high score associated with the first maximum points game a first attained win value and a first attained loss value. The central server is also configured to compare the first score update information with the first best score information including comparing the first attained high score with the first high score and the first attained win and loss values with the first lifetime win loss record.

Certain terminology is used in the following description for convenience only and is not limiting. The words right left lower and upper designate directions in the drawings to which reference is made. The words inwardly and outwardly refer to directions toward and away from respectively the geometric center of the amusement device and designated parts thereof. The terminology includes the above listed words derivatives thereof and words of similar import. Additionally the words a and an as used in the claims and in the corresponding portions of the specification mean at least one. Further the terms coin or currency should not be construed as limiting and can be used herein to mean all forms of coin and paper currency from any country as well as proprietary tokens game cards credit cards debit cards chits or other representative forms of credit and or payment.

Referring to the wherein like reference numerals indicate like elements throughout there is shown in a first preferred embodiment of an amusement device A. The amusement device A includes a controller U and a memory U. The memory U can be any known or suitable memory device such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash RAM hard disk optical disk or the like. The amusement device A further includes a video display A that is operatively connected to the controller U. The amusement device A is preferably a counter top or table top apparatus but may be arranged in any configuration such as free standing floor standing table mount wall mount pole mount portable and the like without departing from the preferred invention.

The amusement device A also includes at least one input component A that receives value in order to establish one or more playable credits. The value received may be at least one of currency coins tokens chits credits credit cards debit cards or the like. Although two input components A are shown the amusement device A may include any number of input components A to give a player an option for payment for permitting multiple players or the like. Preferably the amusement device A is made operable upon actuation of the input component A for example the player may only select and play an electronic game once value is received at the input component A and or one or more playable credits are issued to the player. However free selections may be offered at the discretion of an operator of the amusement device A.

Referring to another or a second amusement device B in accordance with a second preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a controller U a memory U a video display B and at least one input component B. Preferably the video displays A B are touchscreen video displays configured to accept touch input.

Referring to yet another or a third amusement device C which is designed and configured as a portable amusement device C in accordance with a third preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a controller U memory U a display C and at least one input component C. The third preferably portable amusement device C is preferably battery powered. The third amusement device C is preferably usable with a docking station not shown . The docking station preferably secures the device C until access is required by an operator or is paid for by a player.

Release from the docking station may occur via an entry through the input component C which is preferably a card reader. The docking station may also provide battery recharging and other services to the amusement device C.

The input components A B C may be comprised of the touchscreen displays A B C in the preferred embodiments. For example the touchscreen displays A B C may be utilized to input player names and or passwords that permits a player to access a player account associated with the amusement device A B. C. The player account may be store user credits that can be utilized to start game play.

For convenience the amusement devices A B C will be referred to hereinafter simply as amusement device the displays A B C will be referred to hereinafter simply as display and the input components A B C will be referred to hereinafter simply as input component . 

Turning now to the operation of the amusement device the memory U preferably stores one or more application programs such as electronic games a music or video jukebox program or the like and a system control program. However the one or more application programs may also be stored remotely for example on a server which communicates with the amusement device . For example the memory U may store a subset of a plurality of electronic games that are available in an amusement system wherein a plurality of amusement devices are connected or networked together. The controller U controls the touchscreen display based upon the system control program retrieved from the memory U and based upon inputs from the touchscreen display . As used herein the system control program refers to all of the software functions outside of the application program files including an operating system device profile display control input control sound drivers and the like. Other input devices which may be connected to the amusement device include a pushbutton s a trackball or touchpad a mouse a joy stick a foot pedal a voice recognition system a keypad or keyboard and the like. But preferably the input device is the touchscreen display .

The amusement device also preferably includes a communications component such as an Ethernet port a wireless transceiver an infrared IR port or the like. Using the communications component the amusement device may communicate with other devices or file servers access the Internet communicate over wide area networks WANs or local area networks LANs or the like. For example a first amusement device which may be comprised of the amusement device may connect with a second amusement device using the communications component . The second amusement device optionally includes all of the same components and features as the first amusement device . The communications component is preferably connected to the controller U and through the controller U to the memory U.

The amusement devices preferably include an operating mode and a setup mode. When the operating mode is selected a player or user is selectively permitted to access the application programs. When the setup mode is selected the owner operator is permitted to make system setup adjustments. To switch from the operating mode to the setup mode a mode selector pushbutton hardware not shown is provided that is typically concealed from the players. The mode selector pushbutton may be implemented as a hidden software feature but preferably the mode selector pushbutton is a simple pushbutton that is disposed inside a housing of the amusement devices .

The amusement device may connect with other devices in order to improve the game play experience. Specifically the amusement device may retrieve a player s player account data in order to track and display the player s game scores in accordance with the preferred embodiments of this invention.

Referring to a sequence diagram illustrating steps for registering a player account with a central server is shown. The preferred amusement device connects with the central server preferably over a network not shown . The player initiates a new account creation process with the amusement device . The player is any person interested in utilizing the features of the amusement device . The amusement device has a pre stored new account creation graphical user interface GUI that is displayed to the player on the touchscreen display . In an alternate embodiment the amusement device may request the new account creation GUI from the central server .

The player inputs account registration data guided by the new account creation GUI using the touchscreen display or an alternate input device such as a keyboard mouse trackpad or the like. Account registration data preferably includes log in information such as a display name or e mail address and password as well as personal identification information such as full name address credit card information and the like. The amusement device receives the account registration data from the player and transfers the data to the central server . Optionally the amusement device may store portions of the registration information in memory U. The central server receives the account registration data and establishes a player account for the player. The account information is stored in a memory not shown associated with central server . Once the player s player account is established the account may be accessed from any amusement device of the plurality of amusement devices within an amusement system and B . That is the player account may be accessed from any amusement device capable of communicating with the central server a central communication hub a local server or the like. For purposes of the preferred embodiments of the present invention the central communication hub a local server and or like components may operate in the manner of the central server that connects various amusement devices in the amusement system . Further the player account may be managed over the Internet by accessing a website of the amusement system . Thus whenever the player logs into the player account at any amusement device within the amusement system the player s game scores are tracked and stored in the player s player account on the central server . The amusement system preferably accommodated a plurality of users or players and tracks or stores relevant information for the plurality of users in individual player accounts .

Referring to a sequence diagram illustrating steps for retrieving tracking and updating a player s game score in a player account is shown. The player initiates a game play session with one of the amusement devices by providing log in information associated with the player account of player . The log in information is provided by the player entering at least a user name and password via the touchscreen display . Alternatively log in information may be provided by the player inserting a player card storing identification information associated with the player s player account or by transmitting the log in information from a portable device over a communication interface such as Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Infrared IR and the like. Various other techniques for providing log in information to a computing device are known to those skilled in the art and are within the scope of this invention. Once the log in information is received by the amusement device a request for player account data associated with the player is transmitted from the amusement device to the central server . The request includes the log in information to identify the necessary player account. The central server verifies the received log in information determines the player account associated with the player and transmits at least a portion of the player account data and or the player account to the amusement device .

Upon receiving the player account data of player the game play session is established. The player may select and play any of the electronic games stored by the amusement device . The amusement device tracks the game play session recording scores achieved by the player . The achieved scores as well as any other identifying information such as the game played are stored in the memory U of amusement device . Periodically the amusement device transmits the achieved scores to the central server . The central server analyzes the received score updates determines whether any of the scores are best scores and stores the updated scores in the player s player account. For example the central server may receive first score update information associated with an account of a first player and compare the first score update information which may include a first attained high score with stored first best score information to determine if the first player exceeded a previously high score. If the first attained high score is greater than the first high score stored in the central server the first high score is replaced by the first attained high score which becomes the new first high score. In one embodiment all player scores are transmitted to central server and saved in the individual player account at the central server . In another embodiment the amusement device may determine whether an achieved score is a best score and only transmit the best score or scores of the particular gaming session to central server . The updated player account for the player may now be accessed from any other amusement device capable of retrieving player account data from central server . The updated player account preferably includes updated best score information for electronic games previously played by the player on any amusement device in the amusement system .

After the player or first player plays the electronic games and the best score or scores of the particular gaming session is transmitted to the central server a subsequent or second player having a second player account may commence a game session at the amusement device . During the game session at the conclusion of the game session or whenever communication is established between the amusement device and the central server the amusement device preferably transmits and the central server receives second score update information associated with the second player account. The second score update information is preferably compared with second best score information associated with the second player account stored in the central server . The second best score information is updated if the second score update information includes information that requires updating of the second best score information stored in the central server .

In many electronic games the best score is a score that is higher than any previously recorded attained score for the electronic game being played. However in some electronic games such as golf games the best score is a score that is lower than any previously recorded attained score for the electronic game being played. In yet other games such as head to head games the best score is an overall record of the player in all matches for that game.

Referring to a sequence diagram illustrating steps for retrieving tracking and updating a player account at various times from multiple amusement devices is shown. In a first game play session the player logs in to the first amusement device . The first amusement device retrieves the player s player account data from the central server as discussed with reference to above. The player plays one or more electronic games on the first amusement device . The first amusement device tracks the player s first game play session and transmits updates to the central server for storing in the player s player account. The updated player account is stored by the central server for access from other amusement devices such as the second amusement device in the future.

At a later time the player establishes a second game play session at the second amusement device by providing the player s log in information to the second amusement device . Again the second amusement device retrieves the player s updated player account data from the central server using the technique described with respect to above. Once the player account data of the player has been retrieved the player plays one or more electronic games on the second amusement device . The second amusement device tracks the second game play session and transmits updates relating to the player s game play session to the central server . The central server then stores the updates in the player s profile account.

Referring to a sequence diagram illustrating steps for retrieving and storing portions of player accounts by an amusement device is shown. A first player initiates a first game play session by providing first log in information to the amusement device . The amusement device requests player account data associated with the first player by providing the first log in information to the central server . The central server verifies the received first log in information associated with the first player and the first player s player account and transmits the first player s player account data to the amusement device . The amusement device stores at least a portion of the first player s player account data in the memory U even after the first player has ended the first game play session by logging out of the amusement device . The first player s player account data is also preferably stored in the central server . When a second player establishes a second game play session by providing second log in information the amusement device requests the second player s player account data by transmitting the second log in information to the central server . The central server verifies the second log in information and transmits the second player s player account data to the amusement device . The amusement device stores at least a portion of the second player s player account data in the memory U even after the second player has ended the second game play session by logging out of the amusement device . The amusement device preferably maintains player account data for a subgroup of all player accounts stored by the central server . As a result when a network outage occurs making it impossible for the amusement device to retrieve updated player account data from central server players that have previously logged on to the central server through the amusement device retain some player account functionality.

Referring now to a screenshot presenting an account overview screen for the player s player account is shown. The overview screen is preferably shown on the display which is preferably the touchscreen display permitting the players to interact with the account overview screen . The player account overview screen is specific to a logged in player which may be either one of the first and second players or other players not shown and provides a game listing which is generally an overview of games the player has played and the player s best scores for those respective games which are displayed in a best score listing the game listing and best score listing are arranged such that the best score for the particular game is arranged adjacent to the name of the game in the game listing .

The account overview screen of the preferred embodiment shown in includes the game listing showing a listing of four 4 electronic games SPACE FARMER FLICK AND KICK FOOTBALL MYSTERY PHRAZE and BATTLE TRI TOWERS playable on the amusement device . Each of the electronic games has a corresponding best score or lifetime win loss record for the player depending upon the type of game. The best high scores or lifetime win loss records for games SPACE FARMER FLICK AND KICK FOOTBALL and MYSTER PHRAZE are presented as the maximum number of points accumulated by the player during a single game play session. The best high score or lifetime win loss record for such an electronic game is updated whenever the player attains a higher score for the respective game or whenever a user or player completes a win loss game so that a win or a loss is added to the lifetime win loss record. Thus if the user s player account includes a best score of ten thousand 10 000 points for SPACE FARMER and the player attains a score of twenty thousand 20 000 during the next play of the game which is transmitted to the central server as update information with the new high score the player account is updated so that the best high score for SPACE FARMER is shown as twenty thousand 20 000 on the account overview screen . The lifetime win loss record for the multiplayer electronic game BATTLE TRI TOWERS is presented as the player s lifetime win loss record for the game. For such a battle mode game the overall record is shown as the lifetime win loss record and is updated each time the player completes a head to head play of the respective game.

In addition to the best score information the account overview screen provides the player s Global Rank within the amusement device network. That is the global rank is the player s overall ranking among all players having player accounts in the amusement system. The Global Rank may be utilized for the maximum points type games as well as the head to head type games. For example the player may be ranked based on their win percentage in the head to head games and by total number of points in the maximum points type games. The account overview screen additionally includes buttons for My Account allowing the player to change account settings Add Tokens allowing the player to purchase virtual currency and Learn More allowing the player to obtain additional information about the playable system. A page indicator represents the game screen the player is viewing and the total number of available game screens. Additional game screens may be viewed by pressing a left arrow or a right arrow . The account overview screen further includes a total challenges indication and a number of tokens indication . The number of tokens indication provides an indication to the player of the number of tokens available to the player .

Referring to a screenshot presenting a game information screen in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention is shown. The game information screen is specific to the logged in player and provides information for a particular electronic game selected by the player. The game information screen is preferably displayed on the display of the amusement device which is preferably the touchscreen display permitting touch interaction between the player and the game information screen . The game information screen preferably includes a listing of electronic games ZOMBIE CATS 11 UP WORD DOJO 2 LUXOR 3 LUCKY 11 S playable by the player on a logged in amusement device . The electronic game ZOMBIE CATS has been selected in the game information screen of . The player s best score is displayed for the selected electronic game e.g. the player s best score for ZOMBIE CATS is displayed as 257 999 . That is in all plays of ZOMBIE CATS the logged in player s highest score is two hundred fifty seven thousand nine hundred ninety nine 257 999 . In addition to the player s best score the game information screen displays the overall top scores and corresponding players for the selected electronic game and a preview screenshot of the game. A play button is displayed for beginning a play of the selected game . A page indicator represents the game screen the player is viewing and the total number of available game screens. Additional game screens may be viewed by pressing a left arrow or a right arrow .

Both the account overview screen and the game information screen include account management buttons. Specifically a help button and a settings button are found in the upper right corner of the screens. The account overview screen and the game information screen also include a sign out button that allows the player to disconnect from the gaming session so that the player s account cannot be accessed by the subsequent player.

If the player desires the player s best scores may be broadcast to friends or other competitors in a variety of ways. When the player wishes to broadcast his or her score the score may be broadcast on one or more leaderboards maintained by the central server . The player account may also be linked to one or more social network profiles of the player. The player may choose to publicize a best score for a particular game to friends on social networks such as TWITTER FACEBOOK and GOOGLE . In that case the player s best score is communicated to the social network selected by the player through an Application Programming Interface API provided by the selected social network and displayed on the player s profile within the selected social network. The central server preferably receives a prompt from the player such as through inputs or contacts at the touchscreen video display A B C requesting that the player s best score or other information related to the game is communicated to the social network. The central server subsequently transmits the best score or other information to the social network.

The first gaming location may also have a central communication hub enabling communication between all of the first second and third amusement devices housed at the first gaming location and in communication with the central server . The central server may also be in communication with a fourth amusement device which is not connected to the central communication hub but is directly in communication with the central server . The fourth amusement device is located at a second gaming location remote from the first gaming location in this preferred embodiment. The central communication hub provides a certain amount of back up to the central server particularly in situations where the central server malfunctions or communication between the central server and the central communication hub are interrupted. The central communication hub preferably stores some player information such that the amusement devices may be operated without contact with the central server . In addition the central communication hub permits a manager or operator at the first gaming location to configure the amusement devices in a unique way for the enjoyment of the players at the first gaming location without impacting the operation of the fourth amusement device at the second gaming location . The central communication hub preferably operates as a central server with respect to the first second and third amusement devices in the preferred embodiment shown in .

In another alternative arrangement as shown in the gaming location may house its own local server which performs all of the functions listed above with respect to the central server for all of the local amusement devices including the first second and third amusement devices in the preferred embodiment shown in . In the case where a device operator owns a large number of amusement devices the local server or the central communication hub may be a central point for maintaining player accounts and tracking best score information for all amusement devices at the gaming location . The local server may be housed in the gaming location and need not be remote to every amusement device .

Referring to the central server central communication hub and or local server preferably maintain a plurality of player accounts including a first player account and a second player account . There is preferably the same number of player accounts as there are authorized players or players for the particular preferred amusement system and the amusement system preferably stores these player accounts in the central server central communication hub local server and or the individual amusement devices . The first player account is preferably associated with the first player and includes information related to the first player such as log in information payment information score information game preferences and like information that may be associated with the first player. The second player account is preferably associated with the second player and includes similar information related to the second player. In the preferred embodiment the first player account includes first best score information and the second player account includes second best score information .

The preferred first best score information includes a first high score which is the first player s high score for a first maximum points game a second high score which is the first player s high score for a second maximum points game a first lifetime win loss record which is the first player s lifetime win loss record for a first head to head game and a second lifetime win loss record which is the first player s lifetime win loss record for a second head to head game. The preferred second best score information includes a third high score which is the second player s high score for the first maximum points game a fourth high score which is the second player s high score for the second maximum points game a third lifetime win loss record which is the second player s lifetime win loss record for the first head to head game and a fourth lifetime win loss record which is the second player s lifetime win loss record for the second head to head game. The central server central communication hub local server and or the individual amusement devices preferably store and maintain high scores and or lifetime win loss records for each of the plurality of games for each of the plurality of users and or players. However the amusement system is not so limited and the best score information may only be maintained for active users and or players may only include high score and or win loss information related to the selected ones of the plurality of games that the individual user or player has played or include other various combinations of high score and or win loss records for the individual players and or users.

Referring to in the preferred embodiment the central server compares the first high score associated with the first maximum points game and the first player or user with high scores for all of the plurality of users or players for the same first maximum points game to determine a first global rank for the first user. The first global rank is preferably displayed on the account overview screen when the user or player selects the first maximum points game which may be any of the plurality of games that are based on attaining a maximum number of points during game play.

In the preferred embodiment the first lifetime win loss record includes a first total win value and a first total loss value. After the user or player plays the particular head to head game such as the Battle Tri Towers game the amusement device records first score update information which includes a first attained win value and a first attained loss value. Each play session may result in multiple plays of the head to head game and a cumulative number in both the first attained win and loss values. The first attained win value is preferably added to the first total win value and the first attained loss value is preferably added to the first total loss value to replace the previous first lifetime win loss record with an updated or new first lifetime win loss record. The update of the player s best score information results in new best score information resulting from updating the values to include the results of the gaming session. The new best score information is preferably stored in the central server but may alternatively be stored in the amusement device the central communication hub the local server and or the like.

Referring to the account overview screen preferably includes a game listing of the plurality of electronic games that are available for play or have been played by the user or player. In addition the account overview screen also preferably includes a best score listing that lists the best score information such as the first best score information for the first player or the second best score information for the second player depending upon which one of the plurality of players or users is logged into the selected amusement device . The plurality of games and best score information are arranged such that the high score or lifetime win loss record associated with the individual games are aligned or positioned in proximity to each other so that the user or player can track and identify their top scores and lifetime win loss records for each of the plurality of games 

Referring to the amusement devices may be connected to their corresponding servers and or the central communication hub through conventional communication configurations such as a LAN WAN or the like. In one preferred embodiment the amusement device may connect to the central server via the Internet. It is thus understood by those skilled in the art that the amusement system is not limited to the arrangements described above and may include any configuration wherein a player account for obtaining playable credits is maintained. Each of the first second third fourth amusement devices and any additional amusement devices associated with or connected to the amusement system preferably include the video display the input component the communications component the controller U and the memory U.

The amusement device may also include other functionality and features such as music jukebox video jukebox multimedia player Internet browsing broadcast media viewing time based rental mode non prize tournaments prize based tournaments head to head competitions prize based lotteries ticket dispensing prize dispensing debit credit card charging phone card dispensing e mail photography placing customer orders communicating with other amusement devices and the like.

The amusement device may also provide for remote or local access for accounting and or bookkeeping purposes. The amusement device may include a local connector for uploading to a hand held or portable computer or removable memory for receiving accounting or other data. The amusement device may include accounting and bookkeeping screens accessible by an operator through set up screens and or through password protection.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

