---

title: Apparatus and method for concurrently forming a gastroesophageal valve and tightening the lower esophageal sphincter
abstract: An apparatus enables concurrent restoration of a gastroesophageal valve and tightening of the lower esophageal sphincter. The apparatus comprises a longitudinal member having a distal end arranged to be received within a stomach, a tissue shaper at the distal end of the longitudinal member that forms a gastroesophageal valve from stomach tissue, and a tissue gatherer that gathers fundus tissue at or aboral to the gastroesophageal junction to reduce an esophageal opening into the stomach and tighten the lower esophageal sphincter. A fastener deployer then deploys at least one fastener pair to maintain both the restored gastroesophageal valve and the tightened lower esophageal sphincter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09161754&OS=09161754&RS=09161754
owner: EndoGastric Solutions, Inc.
number: 09161754
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 870 815 filed Aug. 28 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 319 228 filed Jan. 2 2009 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 291 500 filed Dec. 1 2005 now abandoned . The entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to manipulation of stomach tissue as by folding or molding and stomach tissue fixation to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease. The present invention more particularly relates to the restoration of a gastroesophageal valve and the concurrent tightening of the lower esophageal sphincter.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD is a chronic condition caused by the failure of the anti reflux barrier located at the gastroesophageal junction to keep the contents of the stomach from splashing into the esophagus. The splashing is known as gastroesophageal reflux. The stomach acid is designed to digest meat and will digest esophageal tissue when persistently splashed into the esophagus.

A principal reason for regurgitation associated with GERD is the mechanical failure of a deteriorated gastroesophageal valve to close and seal against pressure in the stomach. Due to reasons including lifestyle a Grade I normal gastroesophageal valve may deteriorate into a malfunctioning Grade III or absent gastroesophageal valve Grade IV. With a deteriorated gastroesophageal valve the stomach contents are more likely to be regurgitated into the esophagus the mouth and even the lungs. The regurgitation is referred to as heartburn because the most common symptom is a burning discomfort in the chest under the breastbone. Burning discomfort in the chest and regurgitation of sour tasting gastric juice into the mouth are classic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD . When stomach acid is regurgitated into the esophagus it is usually cleared quickly by esophageal contractions and esophageal clearance as a result from swallowing. Heartburn as a result from backwashing of stomach acid and bile onto the esophagus results when stomach acid is frequently regurgitated into the esophagus and the esophageal wall is inflamed.

Complications develop for some people who have GERD. Esophagitis inflammation of the esophagus with erosions and ulcerations breaks in the lining of the esophagus can occur from repeated and prolonged acid exposure. If these breaks are deep bleeding or scarring of the esophagus with formation of a stricture narrowing of the esophagus can occur. If the esophagus narrows significantly then food sticks in the esophagus and the symptom is known as dysphagia. GERD has been shown to be one of the most important risk factors for the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma. In a subset of people who have severe GERD if acid exposure continues the injured squamous lining is replaced by a precancerous lining called Barrett s Esophagus in which a cancerous esophageal adenocarcinoma can develop.

Other complications of GERD may not appear to be related to esophageal disease at all. Some people with GERD may develop recurrent pneumonia lung infection asthma wheezing or a chronic cough from acid backing up into the esophagus and all the way up through the upper esophageal sphincter into the lungs. In many instances this occurs at night while the person is in a supine position and sleeping. Occasionally a person with severe GERD will be awakened from sleep with a choking sensation. Hoarseness can also occur due to acid reaching the vocal cords causing a chronic inflammation or injury.

GERD never improves without intervention. Life style changes combined with both medical and surgical treatments exist for GERD. Medical therapies include antacids antisecretory drugs such as H2 blockers and proton pump inhibitors. However the medical therapies only mask the reflux. Patients still get reflux asthma and perhaps even emphysema because of gastric contents and particles refluxed into the lungs. Barrett s esophagus results in about 10 of the GERD cases. The esophageal epithelium changes into intestinal metaplastic epithelium tissue that tends to become cancerous from repeated acid washing despite the medication.

Several open laparotomy and laparoscopic surgical procedures are available for treating GERD. One surgical approach is the Nissen fundoplication. The Nissen approach typically involves a 360 degree wrap of the fundus around the gastroesophageal junction. The procedure has a high incidence of postoperative complications. The Nissen approach creates a 360 degree moveable valve typically without a fixed portion. Hence Nissen does not restore the normal movable flap of the valve. The patient s frequency cannot burp because the fundus was used to make the repair by wrapping it around the esophagus and may experience dysphagia. Another surgical approach to treating GERD is the Belsey Mark IV Belsey fundoplication. The Belsey procedure involves creating a valve by suturing a portion of the stomach to an anterior surface of the esophagus. It reduces some of the postoperative complications encountered with the Nissen fundoplication but still does not restore an anatomical normal movable flap. None of these procedures fully restores the normal anatomical anatomy or produces a normally functioning gastroesophageal junction. Another surgical approach is the Hill repair. In the Hill repair the gastroesophageal junction is anchored to the posterior abdominal areas and a 180 270 degree valve is created by a system of sutures. The Hill procedure restores the moveable flap the cardiac notch and the Angle of His. However all of these surgical procedures are very invasive regardless of whether done as a laparoscopic or an open procedure.

New less surgically invasive approaches to treating GERD involve transoral endoscopic procedures. One procedure contemplates a machine device with robotic arms that is inserted transorally into the stomach. While observing through an endoscope an endoscopist guides the machine within the stomach to engage a portion of the fundus with a corkscrew like device on one arm. The arm then pulls on the engaged portion to create a fold of tissue or radial plication at the gastroesophageal junction. Another arm of the machine pinches the excess tissue together and fastens the excess tissue with one pre tied implant. This procedure does not restore normal anatomy. The fold created does not have anything in common with a valve. In fact the direction of the radial fold prevents the fold or plication from acting as a flap of a valve.

Another transoral procedure contemplates making a fold of fundus tissue near the deteriorated gastroesophageal flap to recreate the lower esophageal sphincter LES . The procedure requires placing multiple U shaped tissue clips around the folded fundus to hold it in shape and in place.

This and the previously discussed procedure are both highly dependent on the skill experience aggressiveness and courage of the endoscopist. In addition these and other procedures may involve esophageal tissue in the repair. Esophageal tissue is fragile and weak in part due to the fact that the esophagus is not covered by serosa a layer of very sturdy yet very thin tissue covering and stabilizing all intraabdominal organs similar like a fascia covering and stabilizing muscle. Involvement of esophageal tissue in the repair of a gastroesophageal valve poses unnecessary risks to the patient such as an increased risk of fistulas between the esophagus and the stomach and the risk of mediastinitis.

A new and improved apparatus and method for restoration of a gastroesophageal valve is fully disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 790 214 issued Sep. 14 2004 is assigned to the assignee of this invention and is incorporated herein by reference. That apparatus and method provides a transoral endoscopic gastroesophageal valve restoration. A longitudinal member arranged for transoral placement into a stomach carries a tissue shaper that non invasively grips and shapes stomach tissue. A tissue fixation device is then deployed to maintain the shaped stomach tissue in a shape approximating a gastroesophageal flap.

The last mentioned apparatus and method hold out great promise for the GERD sufferer. Not only are the gastroesophageal valve anatomy and function restored they are restored transorally without the need for surgical incisions. Most patients will experience a quick recovery to a better life without GERD in a few days. Most won t even need to spend a night in the hospital.

Experience has shown that a significant percentage of patients who suffer from GERD also have a compromised high pressure zone and lower esophageal sphincter LES . The compromised function of the LES is exhibited by enlargement of the perimeter of the LES and a weakened state of its associated muscle tissue. While a healthy lower esophageal sphincter serves as a discriminating sphincter able to distinguish between burping gas liquids and solids and supporting the valve to prevent reflux from happening a compromised LES is unable to provide this function. Hence a healthy LES provides an added protection against GERD when working in conjunction with the gastroesophageal valve GEV but a compromised LES does not.

Unfortunately none of the prior art devices or methods address the issue of restoring both the LES and the GEV during a single concurrent procedure. Indeed only the last mentioned apparatus and method are even directed to restoring the GEV. The others are solely intended to restore LES competency. Hence there is a need in the art to address the total picture for treating GERD restoring both the LES and the GEV to effective competency. The present invention addresses these and other issues.

The invention provides a method of treating a gastrodisorder involving a patient s stomach esophagus and esophageal opening into the stomach. The method comprises forming a gastroesophageal valve from stomach tissue gathering fundus tissue at or aboral of the gastroesophageal junction to reduce the esophageal opening and deploying at least one fastener to maintain both the formed gastroesophageal valve and fundus fold.

The gathering step may comprise displacing the fundus tissue into the esophageal opening. The gathering step may comprise mechanically gripping the fundus tissue. The gathering step may alternatively comprise vacuum gathering the fundus tissue. The gathering step may include gathering the fundus tissue at a gathering point. The deploying step may comprise deploying a fastener on opposite sides of the gathering point.

The deploying step may comprise deploying at least a pair of fasteners spaced apart and the gathering step may comprise providing the fasteners with converging trajectories during deployment.

The method may further comprise the step of placing a medical instrument into the stomach and the step of forming a gastroesophageal valve may comprise folding stomach tissue with the instrument so that serosa tissue contacts serosa tissue to form a flap of stomach tissue layers. The stomach tissue layers comprise an inner tissue layer and an outer tissue layer and the gathering step may comprise gathering the inner tissue and displacing the inner tissue layer into the esophageal opening with the instrument. The gathering step may comprise mechanically gripping the inner tissue layer or vacuum gathering the inner tissue layer.

The gathering step may include gathering the inner tissue layer at a gathering point. The deploying step may include deploying a fastener with the instrument through the tissue layers on opposite sides of the gathering point.

The invention further provides a method of treating a stomach disorder involving a patient s stomach esophagus and esophageal opening into the stomach comprising forming in a plurality of stages a gastroesophageal valve from stomach tissue during at least one of the stages gathering fundus tissue at or aboral of the gastroesophageal junction to reduce the esophageal opening and deploying at least one fastener to maintain both the formed gastroesophageal valve and reduced esophageal opening.

The gathering step may comprise gripping the fundus tissue and displacing the fundus tissue into the esophageal opening. The gathering step may again comprise mechanically gripping the fundus tissue or vacuum gathering the fundus tissue. Again the gathering step may include gathering the fundus tissue at a gathering point and the deploying step may comprise deploying a fastener on opposite sides of the gathering point.

The deploying step may again comprise deploying at least a pair of fasteners spaced apart and the gathering step may comprise providing the fasteners with converging trajectories during deployment.

The method may further comprise the step of placing a medical instrument into the stomach and the step of forming a gastroesophageal valve may comprise folding during each stage stomach tissue with the instrument so that serosa tissue contacts serosa tissue to form a flap of stomach tissue layers. The stomach tissue layers comprise an inner tissue layer and an outer tissue layer and the gathering step may include gathering the inner tissue layer and displacing the inner tissue layer into the esophageal opening with the instrument. The instrument may gather the inner tissue layer at a gathering point and deploy a fastener on each side of the gathering point.

The instrument may be used to drive at least a pair of spaced apart fasteners from the inner tissue layer to and through the outer tissue layer and while driving the fasteners providing the fasteners with diverging drive trajectories to cause the tissue layers to be gathered.

The invention still further provides a method of restoring a patient s gastroesophageal valve associated with the patient s stomach esophagus and esophageal opening into the stomach and concurrently tightening the patient s lower esophageal sphincter. The method comprises forming from stomach tissue a plurality of gastroesophageal valve portions in a like plurality of serially repeated stages until the gastroesophageal valve is formed. During at least one of the stages fundus tissue is gathered at or aboral of the gastroesophageal junction to form a fundus fold to reduce the esophageal opening. At least one fastener is then deployed to maintain both the gastroesophageal valve portion formed during the at least one stage and the fundus fold.

The invention further provides an apparatus arranged to treat a stomach disorder involving a patient s stomach esophagus and esophageal opening into the stomach. The apparatus comprises a longitudinal member having a distal end arranged to be received within a stomach a tissue shaper at the distal end of the longitudinal member that forms a gastroesophageal valve from stomach tissue a tissue gatherer that gathers fundus tissue at or aboral to the gastroesophageal junction to reduce the esophageal opening into the stomach and a fastener deployer that deploys a fastener that maintains both the gastroesophageal valve and the reduced esophageal opening.

The gatherer may be arranged to displace the fundus tissue into the esophageal opening. The gatherer may comprise a mechanical gripper that grips the fundus tissue. The gatherer may alternatively comprise a vacuum gatherer that gathers the fundus tissue.

The gatherer may be arranged to gather the fundus tissue at a gathering point and the fastener deployer may be arranged to deploy a fastener on opposite sides of the gathering point.

The fastener deployer may be arranged to deploy at least a pair of fasteners spaced apart and the gatherer may be arranged to provide the fasteners with converging trajectories during deployment. The converging trajectories of the fasteners will cause gathering of the fundus tissue after fastener deployment.

The tissue shaper may comprise a tissue folder that folds stomach tissue such that serosa tissue contacts serosa tissue to form the gastroesophageal valve from stomach tissue layers.

The stomach tissue layers comprise an inner tissue layer and an outer tissue layer and the gatherer may comprise a gatherer that gathers the inner tissue layer and displaces the inner tissue layer into the esophageal opening.

The gripper may arrange to mechanically grip the inner tissue layer. The gripper may alternatively be arranged to vacuum gather the inner tissue layer.

The gatherer may be arranged to gather the inner tissue layer at a gathering point and the fastener deployer may be arranged to deploy a fastener through the tissue layers on opposite sides of the gathering point.

The tissue shaper may comprise a pair of hingedly coupled first and second arms. The first and second arms are arranged to receive the tissue there between and to fold the stomach tissue to form the gastroesophageal valve.

Another apparatus for treating a stomach disorder involving a patient s stomach esophagus and esophageal opening into the stomach comprises a tissue shaper that forms over a plurality of stages a gastroesophageal valve from stomach tissue. The apparatus further comprises a tissue gatherer that folds fundus tissue at or aboral of the gastroesophageal junction during at least one of the stages to reduce the esophageal opening and a fastener deployer that deploys at least one fastener to maintain both the formed gastroesophageal valve and fundus fold.

According to a still further embodiment an apparatus for restoring a patient s gastroesophageal valve associated with the patient s stomach esophagus and esophageal opening into the stomach and concurrently tightening the patient s lower esophageal sphincter comprises a tissue shaper that forms from stomach tissue a plurality of gastroesophageal valve portions in a like plurality of serially repeated stages until the gastroesophageal valve is formed. The apparatus further comprises a tissue gatherer that during at least one of the stages folds fundus tissue at or aboral of the gastroesophageal junction to form a fundus fold to reduce the esophageal opening and a fastener deployer that deploys at least one fastener to maintain both the gastroesophageal valve portion formed during the at least one stage and the fundus fold.

The fundus of the greater curvature forms the superior portion of the stomach and traps gas and air bubbles for burping. The esophageal tract enters the stomach at an esophageal orifice below the superior portion of the fundus forming a cardiac notch and an acute angle with respect to the fundus known as the Angle of His . The lower esophageal sphincter LES is a discriminating sphincter which is part of the high pressure zone of the antireflux barrier of the GEJ able to distinguish between burping gas liquids and solids and works in conjunction with the fundus to burp. The gastroesophageal valve GEV includes a moveable portion and an opposing more stationary portion.

The moveable portion of the GEV is an approximately 180 degree semicircular gastroesophageal flap alternatively referred to as a normal moveable flap or moveable flap formed of tissue at the intersection between the esophagus and the stomach . The opposing more stationary portion of the GEV comprises a portion of the lesser curvature of the stomach adjacent to its junction with the esophagus . The gastroesophageal flap of the GEV principally comprises tissue adjacent to the fundus portion of the stomach . It is about 4 to 5 cm long at it longest portion and its length may taper at its anterior and posterior ends.

The gastroesophageal flap is partially held against the lesser curvature portion of the stomach by the pressure differential between the stomach and the thorax and partially by the resiliency and the anatomical structure of the GEV thus providing the valving function. The GEV is similar to a flutter valve with the gastroesophageal flap being flexible and closeable against the other more stationary side.

The esophageal tract is controlled by an upper esophageal sphincter UES in the neck near the mouth for swallowing and by the LES and the GEV at the stomach. The normal anti reflux barrier is primarily formed by the LES and the GEV acting in concert to allow food and liquid to enter the stomach and to considerably resist reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus past the gastroesophageal tissue junction . Tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal tissue junction is generally considered part of the stomach because the tissue protected from stomach acid by its own protective mechanisms. Tissue oral of the gastroesophageal junction is generally considered part of the esophagus and it is not protected from injury by prolonged exposure to stomach acid. At the gastroesophageal junction the juncture of the stomach and esophageal tissues form a zigzag line which is also referred to as the Z line. For the purposes of these specifications including the claims stomach means the tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal junction .

The deteriorated gastroesophageal flap shown in has a gastroesophageal valve and cardiac notch that are both significantly degraded. Dr. Hill and colleagues developed a grading system to describe the appearance of the GEV and the likelihood that a patient will experience chronic acid reflux. L. D. Hill et al. Gastrointestinal Endoscopy 1996 44 541 547. Under Dr. Hill s grading system the normal movable flap of the GEV illustrates a Grade I valve that is the least likely to experience reflux. The deteriorated gastroesophageal flap of the GEV illustrates a Grade III almost Grade IV valve. Grade III and IV valves are the most likely to experience reflux. Grades II and III reflect intermediate grades of deterioration and as in the case of III a high likelihood of experiencing reflux. With the deteriorated GEV represented by deteriorated gastroesophageal flap and the fundus moved inferior the stomach contents are presented a funnel like opening directing the contents into the esophagus and the greatest likelihood of experiencing reflux. Disclosed subsequently are a device assembly and method which may be employed to advantage according to an embodiment of the invention in restoring the normal gastroesophageal valve anatomy.

Referring now to it shows a device according to an embodiment of the present invention. More particularly shows those elements of the device that provide for the restoration of a GEV according to this embodiment. The elements for concurrently tightening the LES according to various embodiments will be described subsequently.

The device includes a longitudinal member for transoral placement of the device into the stomach. The device further includes a first member hereinafter referred to as the chassis and a second member hereinafter referred to as the bail or mold. The chassis and bail are carried at the distal end of the longitudinal member for placement in the stomach. The chassis and bail are hingedly coupled at and form a tissue shaper to shape tissue of the stomach into the flap of a restored gastroesophageal valve.

The device has a longitudinal passage to permit an endoscope to be guided through the device and into the stomach. This permits the endoscope to service as a guide for guiding the device through the patient s throat down the esophagus and into the stomach. It also permits the gastroesophageal valve restoration procedure to be viewed at each stage of the procedure.

As described in copending application Ser. No. 11 001 666 filed Nov. 30 2004 entitled FLEXIBLE TRANSORAL ENDOSCOPIC GASTROESOPHAGEAL VALVE RESTORATION DEVICE AND METHOD which application is incorporated herein by reference the device is fed down the esophagus with the bail substantially in line with the chassis . To negotiate the bend of the throat and as described in the aforementioned referenced application the chassis and bail are rendered flexible. The chassis is rendered flexible by the slots and the bail is rendered flexible by the hingedly coupled links . Further details concerning the flexibility of the chassis and the bail may be found in the aforementioned referenced application.

To facilitate shaping of the stomach tissue the stomach tissue is drawn in between the chassis and the bail . Further to enable a flap of sufficient length to be formed to function as the flap of a gastroesophageal valve the stomach tissue is pulled down so that the fold line is substantially juxtaposed to the opening of the esophagus into the stomach. Hence the stomach is first gripped at a point out and away from the esophagus and the grip point is pulled to almost the hinged connection of the chassis and bail . To this end and as further shown in the device includes a tissue gripper . The gripper in this embodiment comprises a helical coil . The coil is carried at the end of a cable and may be attached to the end of the cable or be formed from the cable. In this embodiment the helical coil is attached to the cable and is preceded by a guide . For a complete description of the function of the guide together with a complete description of the manner in which a GEV may be restored with the device if reference may be had to copending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 172 427 filed Jun. 29 2005 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The helical coil is shown in an approximate position to engage the stomach tissue out and away from the opening of the esophagus to the stomach. The helical coil is guided into position by a guide structure carried on the bail . The guide structure comprises a guide tube . When the device is first introduced down the esophagus into the stomach the helical coil is caused to reside well within the guide tube to preclude the helical coil from accidentally or inadvertently snagging esophageal or stomach tissue.

The guide tube includes a longitudinal slit having a circuitous configuration. The slit permits the end of the cable to release or disassociate from the bail after the stomach tissue is gripped. The circuitous configuration of the slit assures confinement of the cable within the guide tube until release of the cable is desired. The proximal end of the slit has an enlarged portion or opening not shown . This opening permits the cable and helical coil to reenter the lumen when the device is readied for a repeated stomach tissue shaping procedure. To that end the guide has a conical surface that serves to guide the cable end back into the opening of the slit .

With continued reference to the device further comprises a fastener deployer . The fastener deployer includes a plurality of fastener deployment guides . The fastener deployment guides take the form of guide lumens. Although only one guide lumen is shown it will be appreciated that the device may include a plurality of such lumens without departing from the invention. The guide lumen terminates at a delivery point where a fastener is driven into the molded stomach tissue. As will be seen subsequently the fastener deployer includes at least two guides so that fasteners may be deployed on opposite sides of a tissue gathering point to maintain both a restored GEV and a concurrently tightened LES.

The device further includes a window within the chassis . The window is formed of a transparent or semi transparent material. This permits gastroesophageal anatomy and more importantly the gastroesophageal junction Z line to be viewed with the endoscope . The window includes a location marker which has a know position relative to the fastener delivery point . Hence by aligning the marker with a known anatomical structure the fastener will be delivered a known distance from or at a location having a predetermined relation to the marker. For example by aligning the marker with the Z line it will be know that the fastener will be placed aboral of the Z line and that serosa tissue will be fastened to serosa tissue. As previously mentioned this has many attendant benefits.

It may also be mentioned at this point that the device further includes an invaginator including a plurality of orifices . These orifices which alternatively may be employed on the longitudinal member are used to pull a vacuum to cause the device to grip the inner surface of the esophagus. This will serve to stabilize the esophagus and maintain device positioning during the procedure. This vacuum gripping of the esophagus may also be used to particular advantage if the patient suffers from a hiatal hernia. Upon being thus gripped the esophagus may be moved downwardly with the device toward the stomach and abdominal cavity to eliminate the hiatal hernia.

Now that a device which may be used in restoring the flap of a gastroesophageal valve has been described reference may now be made to the various embodiments herein for the concurrent tightening of an LES along with the restoration of a gastroesophageal valve. To the extent that the devices to be described herein after have elements identical to those of the device of like reference numerals will be employed.

In a device according to one embodiment of the invention is shown. Here it may be seen that the chassis and bail have been brought together with a formed flap of stomach tissue there between. The flap of tissue includes an inner tissue layer and an outer tissue layer . Fasteners have not yet been deployed for maintaining the fold of stomach tissue. However as may also be seen in the cross sectional view of fastener deployment wires or stylets and have been advanced down the guide lumens to extend through the inner tissue layer but not the outer tissue layer . This enables the inner tissue layer to be mechanically gripped.

As may be further noted in the chassis includes a longitudinal channel . The channel provides a space for receiving the inner tissue layer when it displaced into the esophageal opening and thus gathered for tightening the LES.

With the inner tissue layer gathered as shown in fasteners may now be deployed to maintain both the formed flap for the restored GEV and the gathered inner tissue layer for the tightened LES. illustrate the deployed fasteners and . The fasteners may be deployed as described for example in copending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 949 737 filed Sep. 23 2004 Ser. No. 11 172 363 filed Jun. 29 2005 Ser. No. 11 043 903 filed Jan. 25 2005 and Ser. No. 11 172 428 filed Jun. 29 2005 which are hereby incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. The fasteners and are deployed on opposite sides of the tissue gathering point. With the fasteners and thus deployed the device may be rotated and the foregoing may be repeated to form another portion of the formed flap for the restored GEV. Also if needed another inner tissue gathering may be carried out to provide further tightening of the LES.

In another embodiment is shown wherein the tissue gathered for tightening the LES is gathered by vacuum displacement. More specifically and the sectional view of show another device for restoring a GEV and tightening the LES wherein a flap of stomach tissue for restoring the GEV is formed between the chassis and the bail of the device . The chassis includes the longitudinal channel for receiving the gathered tissue. Here however the device further includes vacuum ports that communicate with the channel . The ports communicate with a lumen that extends from the chassis and through the longitudinal member for coupling to a vacuum source. The resulting vacuum pull through the ports will cause the tissue of the inner tissue layer to be displaced and gathered into the channel .

The sectional view of illustrates the inner tissue layer being displaced by the vacuum pull into the channel at a gathering point . Also the fastener deployment stylets and have been advanced through the inner tissue layer . In this state the assemblage is now ready for the deployment of fasteners and to maintain the restored GEV and the tightened LES.

Hence as may be seen from the foregoing according to various embodiments shown and described herein the present invention provides an assembly and method for restoring a GEV and concurrently therewith tightening the LES. The GEV restoration and LES tightening may both be performed transorally in a minimally invasive manner. Since both therapies are concurrently provided in the same procedure the patient is spared the inconvenience of and recovery from separate procedures.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described modifications may be made and it is thereto intended in the appended claims to cover all such changes and modifications which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

