---

title: Device to-device (D2D) discovery without authenticating through cloud
abstract: Embodiments of device-to-device (D2D) discovery, authentication, and connection techniques are generally described herein. In an example, a device-to-device connection establishment technique may be performed directly between peer-to-peer wireless communication devices without obtaining authentication information from a cloud network or an external service. The device-to-device connection establishment technique may include a transmission of a discovery request to available devices, a transmission of a response from available devices including authentication data, and a verification of the authentication data. The authentication data may include previously stored image data associated with a device or human user associated with a device. In further examples, image processing and image recognition techniques may be used to verify a particular device or human user associated with a device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594632&OS=08594632&RS=08594632
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08594632
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by communicating devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to device to device D2D communications and authentication techniques between devices facilitated by a wireless network.

D2D wireless communication techniques may be used to perform peer to peer point to point P2P communications among mobile devices and networks in a variety of settings. D2D communications between mobile devices may be designed to complement the use of centralized communications from a carrier operated wireless base station for example centralized station to mobile communications from an evolved NodeB eNodeB in a network operating with a 3GPP Long Term Evolution Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A standard or from an access point AP in a network operating with an IEEE 802.11 standard.

D2D communications are typically limited to authenticated or trusted devices to prevent access from nearby unauthorized devices to a user s device and data. With existing techniques D2D authentication procedures utilize the exchange of an authentication key or the verification of some identifier such as a friend identifier or group identifier via a remote server e.g. a server hosted in a cloud network . These solutions are non trivial to an end user because the user s device has to establish a wireless link to a network or the internet exchange data with the remote server and incur data usage and fees associated with the procedure. Additionally the user s device may not have access to the internet or the remote authentication server at the user s current location.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein provide for a network awareness and discovery technique used in conjunction with D2D wireless communications and associated P2P type network communications. The presently described network awareness and discovery technique may be used in connection with an authentication technique establishing an authenticated or paired relationship between D2D devices.

With existing technologies device to device discovery and authentication uses an exchange of authentication keys verification of identifiers via a cloud server or other broadcasts exchanges and provisions of data from a third party location. In connection with the presently described techniques a wireless communications device is enabled to discover alert and establish a connection with another desired wireless communications device without establishing a connection to a remote service such as a cloud server. The steps from discovery to final communication may be performed via direct P2P communications over an unencrypted wireless medium. The discovery and authentication techniques may facilitate D2D connections established using any of a variety of network protocols and standards in licensed or unlicensed spectrum bands including Wi Fi P2P communications performed in connection with an IEEE 802.11 standard for example Wi Fi Direct communications facilitated by software access points Soft APs 3GPP LTE LTE A communications for example LTE Direct LTE D communications established in a portion of an uplink segment or other designated resources machine to machine M2M communications performed in connection with an IEEE 802.16 standard and the like.

In establishing a D2D connection between two wireless communicating devices the presently described discovery and authentication techniques enables an exchange of authentication information and discovery information without directly disclosing private or personal data over a publicly accessible wireless link. Further the presently described authentication techniques enable peer connections to be discovered authenticated and established directly using device operations without direct input from a carrier network a carrier based network service or an internet cloud based service. The presently described techniques thus facilitate direct P2P communication techniques to minimize authentication and discovery expenses and operations at end user devices. The P2P communications may bypass communications that would otherwise take place with centralized Access Points eNodeBs other base stations network equipment or backbone servers.

In one example of the presently described initial authentication technique the peer devices do not utilize authentication keys to encrypt transmitted data during authentication. Therefore the transmission of personal information such as name phone number email address and any combination of such information over an unencrypted publicly accessible wireless network is likely to be intercepted. Private data cannot be broadcast to unknown devices via a wireless medium as an identification to introduce oneself to discover and or to recognize a friendly device. The initial authentication technique disclosed herein avoids use of personal information through the use of previously known non sensitive authentication data such as image data associated with a device or device user.

In one embodiment image data which does not directly contain private or sensitive data is exchanged with a requesting device to serve as an identification of a discovered device and the discovered device s user. A transmission of an unencrypted photo of a human user for example can be used as identifier because it will not reveal any further personal data other than the actual presence of the person in the vicinity. Various image data comparison recognition and validation techniques may be used to confirm the exchange of the image data at the requesting device from a pre stored set of data of known or trusted devices. The verification of the discovered device and the discovered device s user may therefore take place over an unencrypted network without exchanging sensitive information.

The network equipment is illustrated in as being connected via a network connection to network servers in a cloud network . The servers may operate to store various types of information on the accessing mobile devices A B C and the carrier network system including device location user profiles user information device type device characteristics and the like. The techniques described herein enable the establishment of D2D communications directly among the various mobile devices A B C without requiring authentication techniques to the cloud network and the network servers .

Pairs of D2D capable communication devices can communicate with each other when in range or otherwise in proximity for wireless communications. As illustrated a D2D connection may be established between mobile device A e.g. a smartphone and mobile device B e.g. a mobile phone a D2D connection may be established between mobile device B and mobile device C e.g. a personal computer and a D2D connection may be established between mobile device A and mobile device C. One or more of the various D2D connections may be temporarily established for authentication purposes to exchange relevant authentication data between the mobile devices. Upon successful authentication a trusted D2D connection may be established with the various D2D connections .

As an example scenario of D2D device discovery and communication suppose a user Adam is going to a public place such as a retail shopping mall. While at the shopping mall location Adam is interested in finding and meeting known friends and contacts in person. He activates a friend finder software application on his smartphone e.g. mobile device A to discover whether any of his friends are located in proximity to his current location. The mobile device A performs a broadcast of a discovery message or like discovery technique via a wireless communication medium e.g. an IEEE 802.11 P2P network broadcast . The discovery message may include some type of information to identify the user Adam or the device associated with the user Adam such as a picture of the user Adam that is recognizable by the user of the receiving device. The discovery technique thus may be used to locate and exchange D2D authentication data with other nearby communication devices. Upon the receipt of a response and appropriate authentication data from a friend s device Adam s mobile device A may securely confirm the device as being associated with a known friend.

The authentication techniques described herein thus enable an exchange of the authentication data over an unsecured link for identification and discovery purposes favoring ease of use and the lack of network connection over the potential security risks with an unsecured network. Rogue or unauthorized devices may attempt to impersonate and listen to D2D device discovery communications to intercept sensitive data. Perhaps there are thieves who set up devices to intercept and playback known device identifiers to establish a P2P connection in order to exploit security vulnerabilities. Likewise perhaps advertising companies are looking to gather cell phone numbers and other contact information for free for advertising purposes. Therefore discovery and establishment of a connection with another D2D device may be limited to trusted or known devices without providing sensitive information in an unencrypted broadcast or response message to establish the D2D connection. Performing an authentication data or other identification exchange prior to establishing a D2D connection can help prevent an unintended connection with any rogue or unauthorized devices although as discussed below some variants of this identification exchange technique may be susceptible to a replay or man in the middle attack.

To the extent that existing techniques perform D2D device authentication remote cloud servers or carrier based authentication systems are typically used to exchange and verify credentials prior to device discovery. For example a device may receive secure authentication keys from servers or network services by which they can verify identities of friendly devices. In contrast one of the authentication techniques described herein includes the direct exchange and validation of image authentication data which does not contain sensitive information. This authentication technique includes an image recognition method by which a connection can be simply established without any communication through the cloud based purely on P2P communications and direct exchanges of information.

In response to the Discovery Request mobile devices such as Mobile Device D D will process the Discovery Request and generate and transmit a Discovery Response . Any processing of the Discovery Request may include image recognition techniques to identify a device or user associated with transmitted image data. A user prompt including a display of image data may be presented at the discovered device e.g. Mobile Device D D asking whether the user wishes to establish or reject a connection with the discovering device e.g. Mobile Device A A .

The Discovery Response will include or be accompanied by authentication data used for identifying and authenticating the discovered device Mobile Device D D such as the inclusion of image data further described herein. The discovering device Mobile Device A A will then perform various validation and verification operations upon the authentication data. Upon successful validation and verification of the authentication data a D2D connection will be established between Mobile Device A A and Mobile Device D D to exchange one or more D2D data transmissions .

In some examples the Discovery Response includes image data associated with a contact list user list known device list or other a listing of pre identified and trusted devices or users maintained on the discovering device. For example in connection with many mobile computing devices such as a smartphone a contact list is already maintained and synchronized in the mobile computing device. The contact list may be configured to include storage of a photo of a friend or an image of an object that uniquely identifies the friend in addition to other identifying information such as a name full address phone number email address and the like. The photo or other image may be obtained and synchronized from remote data services such as a carrier network a social network or an internet service provider or may be captured or designated directly by a human user of the discovering device.

The devices involved in the authentication technique may simply exchange the photo or image for identification purposes without transmitting any private or personal information prior to the establishment of a connection. A rogue device will not have the image saved previously so a rogue device will not be able to impersonate the discovered device during the first attempt at authentication.

As one example a discovering device may store a pre agreed photo of a user in a contact list. The discovered device may transmit this pre agreed photo of the user as image data in the Discovery Response . At the discovering device the image data is cross checked against the pre stored photo to identify the friend uniquely. In a further example an image processing component at the discovering device may perform various image recognition processing capabilities on the received photo. These capabilities may be provided in connection with computing devices such as smartphones and tablets that may implement advanced image recognition algorithms to identify an image of a person uniquely among a set of images of that person. With use of image recognition the same pre agreed photo or image data would not need to be exchanged between the discovering and discovered devices but rather a new photo provided from the discovered device could be compared to another photo maintained at the discovering device to determine whether a common human user is involved.

As an illustration of this example user Bob can use his smart phone to take a self photo as he walks into the mall and programs his smart phone to transmit this photo. Adam s smart phone the discovering device then uses advanced image recognition algorithms to cross check the received photo against a photo that was previously saved on her smart phone to recognize it is a photo of Bob. This image recognition method may be used to address any case that the user Bob considers his previously shared photo as a private photo and wishes not to transmit it over an unencrypted network. Use of image recognition algorithms also removes the need of sharing a common photo among all friends. This allows the photo of Bob that Adam has in the contact list of his device to be different from the photo of Bob that Charles has in the contact list of his device.

As previously suggested the transmitted image does not have to be an actual photo of a person but can be a pre agreed image of an object. The exchange of any type of pre agreed image or data value over an unencrypted wireless network connection however may allow a replay attack to occur. In some examples the authentication data may be limited to a one time use. In further examples a time or date based expiration mechanism may be used limit the use of the authentication data to a specific date or time to prevent re use of an intercepted version of the image during subsequent authentications.

In further examples to prevent a rogue device from capturing a real time picture and to impersonate a known device on subsequent connections a pre shared data value or known indication may be exchanged between devices for subsequent authentication. The pre shared data value may be used to change the visible content of the picture for example in the case that user Bob has informed friends previously that he always sends his picture while holding a specific object like a pen in his hand. Likewise the pre shared tag can be a particular phrase challenge answer or word confirmation that is previously agreed upon with trusted users and is stored in the contact list.

The verification process may include a display of the received image from the discovered device on the discovering device to allow a user to confirm that the received data value or known indication matches or is present. Other verification techniques prompts notifications and announcements may also occur in connection with the identification and confirmation of a recognized device or user. For example an audio component in the discovering device may be used to announce Adam s name instead of displaying his picture based on preferences application settings or a mode of the device . Likewise a discovered device may provide an announcement or notification output that user Adam is located within communication range and wants to connect. This announcement can prompt the user to verbally approve or disapprove connection using a speech recognition component of the device.

In further examples pre shared data values may be exchanged during an established D2D communication session such as with an encrypted exchange to agree on a new pre shared data value for any subsequent communication sessions. This may include data such as a key value storable in the contact list to accompany the identifying picture or image data. In still further examples a cryptographic technique may be used to obtain the pre shared data value and agree on a pre shared token. A robust technique may include downloading of a key for users of an address book or a trusted devices list from a centralized trusted server or the use of a public key signed by a certificate authority. Such a technique however would use an internet connection and rotation of data at regular intervals although would not require an always on connection .

In the discovering device the user interface module may provide a user interface to control device discovery operations validate connections to particular devices display the status of device discovery and authentication operations and display authentication data including image data received from the discovered device . In the discovered device the user interface module may provide similar functionality to control or display the authentication and connection operations with the discovering device including features to accept or deny a connection request broadcast from a discovering device .

In the discovering device the D2D discovery module may provide functionality to transmit a D2D discovery request and process the receipt of pre shared data such as image data from the discovered device and any other responding devices. In the discovered device the D2D discovery module may provide functionality to prepare a response to the D2D discovery request and select and transmit the pre shared data to the discovering device .

In the discovering device the D2D connection module may provide functionality to establish a D2D connection with the discovered device during or after the device discovery including various handshakes data exchanges and authentication techniques to establish and acknowledge a wireless connection using a wireless network standard. Likewise in the discovered device the D2D connection module may provide functionality to respond to the D2D connection requests with the discovering device and perform the various handshakes data exchanges and authentication techniques to establish and acknowledge the wireless connection using the wireless network standard.

The wireless transceiver of the discovering device may include processing circuitry at appropriate network layers e.g. for the physical layer and media access control layer arranged and configured to transmit a wireless D2D communication including discovery communications authentication communications and data communications with the discovered device . The wireless transceiver of the discovered device may provide similar functionality and may include processing circuitry at appropriate network layers arranged and configured to respond to the wireless D2D communication with an additional wireless D2D communication to transmit authentication data and exchange D2D data upon successful authentication.

The image processing and recognition module at the discovering device may include image comparison or image recognition techniques to evaluate authentication image data provided from the discovered device . For example the image processing and recognition module may perform various image fingerprinting and personal recognition techniques to identify a particular human user associated with a known set of image recognition attributes. The image processing and recognition module may also perform simpler forms of image comparison including a simple comparison of data file sizes and data file content provided from the discovered device . The image processing module at the discovered device may include functionality for comparison and for facilitating the correct selection and generation of image data for provision to the discovering device including functionality for capturing an image using the camera . The image processing module may also include functionality for recognizing and processing identifying image data provided from the discovering device in a similar fashion to the image processing and recognition module .

At the discovered device the D2D discovery request is processed operation which may include automated or user verifications of identifying data such as image data transmitted from the discovering device . Further image recognition techniques may be used to ensure that only devices which recognize the image data will provide a response. The discovered device will then generate or retrieve D2D authentication data operation . In some examples this may include retrieving authentication data from an image store. In other examples this may include presenting a user prompt at the discovered device for a selection of an image or other authentication data or for a real time capture of an image or other authentication data using a camera e.g. camera or other input component.

Upon generation and retrieval of the D2D authentication data the discovered device will provide D2D authentication data operation for transmission in a D2D discovery response to the discovering device operation . At the discovering device operations are performed to verify the D2D authentication data operation which may include providing a user prompt to verify all or portions of the authentication data or providing a display with an indication of a successful or unsuccessful verification. Upon successful verification at the discovering device a further data transmission may be sent to acknowledge the D2D connection operation . Subsequently data may be exchanged between the discovering device and the discovered device via the D2D connection operation .

A determination is made if a response is provided to the D2D discovery request within a period of time in determination . If no response is provided a further determination is then made whether the number of times that the D2D discovery request has been tried exceeds a maximum defined number of tries in decision . The D2D discovery operations proceed if the maximum defined number of tries has not been exceeded and include waiting for a defined period to re transmit in operation .

If a response is provided to the D2D discovery request in determination then authentication operations proceed through the exchange of D2D authentication data including any applicable image data in operation . The exchanged D2D authentication data is verified in operation including a comparison of any applicable image data. A determination is then performed to determine whether the exchanged D2D authentication data matches known authentication data in determination .

If the exchanged D2D authentication data matches known authentication data in determination then a D2D connection is established between the communicating devices in operation . If the exchanged D2D authentication data does not match known authentication data in determination then further processing may be performed on the authentication data. This may include the performance of image recognition in operation or similar data recognition or processing on the provided authentication data. If an image or data recognition match is produced from determination then the D2D connection is established between the communicating devices in operation . If an image or data recognition match is not produced from determination then the D2D connection may be denied or otherwise not established in operation .

Although the preceding examples indicated the use of device to device communications in connection with 3GPP and 802.11 standard communications it will be understood that a variety of other communication standards capable of facilitating device to device machine to machine and P2P communications may be used in connection with the presently described techniques. These standards include but are not limited to standards from 3GPP e.g. LTE LTE A HSPA UMTS IEEE 802.11 e.g. 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.16 e.g. 802.16p or Bluetooth e.g. Bluetooth 4.0 or other standard defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards families. Bluetooth as used herein may refer to a short range digital communication protocol defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group the protocol including a short haul wireless protocol frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS communication technique operating in the 2.4 GHz spectrum. Additionally although the example of authentication data was provided with specific reference to image data and image captures it will be understood that other types of data and security verifications may be performed in connection with the presently described techniques.

As described herein various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area Internet network connection it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a wireless device for establishing a device to device wireless connection comprising sending from a wireless device a device to device discovery request over an unencrypted wireless medium receiving at the wireless device in response to the discovery request over the unencrypted wireless medium image authentication data from a second wireless device unique to a human user of the second wireless device the image authentication data including a representation of the human user verifying the image authentication data by comparing the image authentication data to pre stored image data of the human user on the wireless device and in response to successful verification of the image authentication data establishing a device to device connection with the second wireless device.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include the image authentication data including an image file provided in a defined image file format wherein the image file is compared to data in a store of images associated with a plurality of recognized users.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include the store of images associated with a plurality of recognized users being provided by a contact list stored at the wireless device.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include verifying the image authentication data by performing one or more image recognition techniques on the image authentication data to identify the user of the second wireless device.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include the device to device discovery request sent from the wireless device including information unique to a user of the wireless device.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include the device to device connection being established between the wireless device and the second wireless device to create a direct wireless network connection the direct wireless network connection performing wireless communications in accordance with a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or Long Term Evolution Advanced standards family a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family a standard from an IEEE 802.16 standards family or a standard from a Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards family.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include providing a prompt to a user of the wireless device in response to receiving the image authentication data from the second wireless device the prompt being provided in either or both of a visual or audio format wherein verifying the image authentication data is performed in response to receiving a response to the prompt from the user of the wireless device.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 can optionally include providing an indication to a user of the wireless device indicating an unsuccessful verification of the image authentication data in response to unsuccessful verification of the image authentication data wherein the indication is provided in either or both of a visual or audio format.

Example 9 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 to include the subject matter embodied by a wireless communication device such as a user equipment UE comprising processing circuitry arranged to communicate with an evolved NodeB eNB of a Long Term Evolution Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A network and to establish a device to device wireless connection for direct device to device communications independent of the LTE LTE A network with a second wireless communications device by performing operations to broadcast a device to device communication discovery request to a wireless network the broadcast including information to identify the UE extract image authentication data in a communication response received from the second wireless communications device the communication response received in response to the broadcast of the device to device communication discovery request compare the image authentication data from the second wireless communications device to pre stored image authentication data maintained for a plurality of recognized wireless communication devices and in response to a match of the image authentication data in the pre stored image authentication data establish a device to device connection with the second wireless communications device.

In Example 10 the subject matter of Example 9 can optionally include the pre stored image authentication information maintained for the plurality of recognized wireless communication devices being provided from a contact list associating users with recognized wireless communication devices.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 10 can optionally include the image authentication data providing an image unique to a user of the second wireless communications device.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 11 can optionally include operations to compare the image authentication data from the second wireless communications device by performing an image recognition technique on the image authentication data to identify the user of the second wireless communications device.

In Example 13 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 12 can optionally include the UE further comprising a display screen wherein operations to compare the image authentication data from the second wireless communications device include presenting at least a portion of the image authentication data on the display screen to request confirmation of the image by a user of the UE.

In Example 14 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 13 can optionally include the time period for conducting the device to device communications being controlled by the LTE LTE A network in a portion of an uplink segment and wherein the device to device communications are performed between the UE and the second wireless communications device in connection with a standard from a 3GPP LTE LTE A standards family a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family a standard from an IEEE 802.16 standards family or a standard from a Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards family.

Example 15 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 14 to include the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a receiving wireless device for establishing a device to device wireless connection with a requesting wireless device comprising receiving from a requesting wireless device a device to device discovery request broadcast via a wireless transmission medium determining image authentication data for a response to the discovery request the image authentication data including an image of a human user of the receiving wireless device and sending to the requesting wireless device the image authentication data wherein the image authentication data is verified at the requesting wireless device for establishment of a subsequent device to device wireless connection.

In Example 16 the subject matter of Example 15 can optionally include establishing the device to device wireless connection between the receiving wireless device and the requesting wireless device in response to successful authentication of the image authentication data at the requesting wireless device.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 16 can optionally include the device to device discovery request broadcast via a wireless transmission medium including an image unique to a human user of the requesting wireless device wherein the image authentication data is verified at the receiving wireless device.

In Example 18 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 17 can optionally include the image authentication data unique to the human user of the receiving wireless device being produced by capturing an image of a human user using the receiving wireless device.

In Example 19 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 18 can optionally include capturing an image of the human user including providing a prompt to the human user to obtain the image and processing input data from an input imaging device coupled to the receiving wireless device.

Example 20 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 19 to include the subject matter embodied by a user equipment comprising a camera to capture an image of a human user and a transceiver comprising circuitry including physical layer circuitry and media access control layer circuitry the circuitry arranged to attempt authentication for establishing device to device communications with a requesting device by performing operations to process a device to device discovery request received via a wireless transmission medium generate a response to the discovery request the response including authentication data including the image of the human user captured by the camera send to the requesting device the response to the discovery request for verification of an identity associated with the user equipment and exchange device to device communications in response to verification of the identity by the requesting device.

In Example 21 the subject matter of Example 20 can optionally include a display screen arranged to present a user interface for user control to capture the image of the human user and to generate the response to the discovery request.

In Example 22 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 21 can optionally include the image of the human user containing one or more characteristics of the human user detectable by image recognition techniques enabling the image of the human user to match an image stored at the requesting device.

In Example 23 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 22 can optionally include the authentication data including human perceptible information additional to image data providing the image of the human user.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 23 can optionally include the authentication data being sent to the requesting device over an unencrypted wireless network provided by the wireless transmission medium and wherein the device to device discovery request is sent to the user equipment over the unencrypted wireless network.

In Example 25 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 24 can optionally include the device to device communications being performed between the UE and the requesting device in connection with a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or Long Term Evolution Advanced standards family a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family a standard from an IEEE 802.16 standards family or a standard from a Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards family.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

