---

title: Provisioning and correlating a dynamic phone number to identify a unique caller
abstract: A method comprising directing a user equipped with a user's phone to a landing page in response to a call request to a call server communicatively coupled with a dynamic number insertion service (“DNIS”) provisioning server is disclosed. The user may be presented with an offer visible on the landing page such that the offer may be associable with the user's IP address. A user record may be created such that the user may be identifiable through a plurality of unique identifiers. A dynamic DNIS may be provisioned using the DNIS provisioning server such that a called ID associable with the landing page may be generated and the dynamic DNIS may be dialed such that the called ID may be captured. The user record may be matched using the dynamic DNIS and the dynamic DNIS may be released for re-use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08995638&OS=08995638&RS=08995638
owner: 
number: 08995638
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120302
---
This utility patent application claims priority from and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 489 695 titled PROVISIONING AND CORRELATING A DYNAMIC PHONE NUMBER TO IDENTIFY A UNIQUE CALLER and filed on May 25 2011.

Today web forms are used to pass unlimited data from page to page without losing state and logged in web users are easily identifiable when completing forms or other tasks. Passing data or unique identifiers that are tied to a caller via a dialed telephone number is currently not possible due to telephone limitations. When a call center receives a call from an inbound caller there is no way to relate that unique phone number to the user s identification on the web or in Multi User Domains MUDs or massively multi player online role playing games MMORPGs . The Click To Call CTC model does not work for implementing quick and efficient virtual currency transactions because there is no method or system to correlate the phone number of the person who is calling to that person s web identity. There may exist two types of CTCs. One may require a user to supply his her phone number to get a call back and the other one may require the user to call a number for initial background.

Adding a CTC capability to a website on the Internet may enable users of the website to call a service provider directly from the website. However passing data or unique identifiers that are tied to the caller user who uses CTC is not possible because there is no way to tie a user s account ID or unique ID the user name the user uses on the website to that particular user especially when virtual currency is involved applies to CTC systems that a user does not supply his her phone number to . In essence the business or service which is being called by the CTC user does not know who the exactly the CTC user is.

CTC technology now virtually always refers to a means for a web consumer to ask a website operator to call him her. In other words click to call would be more accurately referred to as request a call as in please give me a call here is my phone number . Obviously therefore CTC technology in most instances requires the web consumer to enter his her phone number in order for the site operator or audio telephony version of an auto responder to place the call. This presents a privacy problem as the user may not want an advertiser to have his her personal mobile phone number or any other personal phone number.

The problem lies in the fact that although the site operator or auto responder may know the real identity of the person who requested the call as in a traditional CTC . If any actionable information is known it may be only that person s web identification or that person s user name or other identification used by that person on the Internet or mobile web site from which the click to call or request to call operation was performed. This presents a problem for quickly securely and efficiently transferring virtual currency to that particular user because the end user may have to supply the callback number and even though the user s phone number may be captured on an inbound call which may not be known to the average user there is also a privacy factor involved with the user s giving up their mobile number to an advertiser.

In one exemplary aspect a method comprising directing a user equipped with a user s phone to a landing page in response to a call request to a call server communicatively coupled with a DNIS Dynamic Number Insertion Service provisioning server is disclosed. The user may be presented with an offer visible on the landing page such that the offer may be associable with a user s IP Internet Protocol address. A user record may be created such that the user may be identifiable through a plurality of unique identifiers.

According to another aspect a dynamic DNIS may be provisioned using the DNIS provisioning server such that a called ID e.g. the number called associable with the landing page may be generated. The dynamic DNIS may be dialed such that the called ID may be captured. The user record may be matched using the dynamic DNIS and dynamic DNIS may be released for re use.

The unique identifier may be an IP address an offer ID a user ID and an account ID. The called ID and a unique ID may also be associable with the user within the DNIS provisioning server such that a virtual currency associable with the user may be transmitted to the user s phone. The unique ID may be correlated to a call s duration such that a 3party API Application Programming Interface associable with the user may be correlated to the unique ID and or the called ID. The called ID and the unique ID associable with the user may be correlated within the DNIS provisioning server. Further a unique ID associable with the call server may be transmitted to a Computer Telephony Integration CTI server such that a call center screen pop may be created from a call center reference ID in a CTI interface. The unique ID may be tied to a primary key in a database such that data may be pulled back based on the unique identifier.

Other aspects may comprise provisioning the dynamic DNIS to a user equipped with a user s phone and determining a geo location of the user based on the user s IP address. A plurality of phone numbers may be queried for the dynamic DNIS and the dynamic DNIS may be assigned to a user record if a phone number is available and or not expired. The dynamic DNIS may be provisioned within proximity of the geo location of the user and the dynamic DNIS may be assigned to the user record if the phone number is not available and or expired.

An interesting aspect is that an offer presented to the user may be associable with the user s IP address such that a called ID associable with the user s phone may be correlated to the user within the DNIS provisioning server. It will be appreciated that an area code of the user may be determined using the user s IP address. The unique ID may be tied to a primary key in a database such that data may be pulled back based on the unique identifier.

In yet another aspect a user module may direct the user equipped with a user s phone to a landing page in response to a call request to a call server communicatively coupled with a DNIS provisioning server. An offer module may present the user with an offer visible on the landing page such that the offer may be associable with a user s IP address. A unique identifier module may create a user record such that the user may be identifiable through a plurality of unique identifiers. Further a DNIS module may provision a dynamic DNIS using the DNIS provisioning server such that a called ID associable with the landing page may be generated. It will also be appreciated that a currency module may be implemented wherein a called ID and a unique ID may be associable with the user within the DNIS provisioning server such that a virtual currency associable with the user may be transmitted to the user s phone.

The unique identifier may be an IP address an offer ID a user ID and or an account ID. The called ID and a unique ID may be associable with the user within the DNIS provisioning server such that the virtual currency associable with the user may be transmitted to the user s phone. The unique ID may be correlated to a call s duration such that a 3party API associable with the user may be correlated to the unique ID and or the called ID. The called ID and the unique ID associable with the user may also be correlated within the DNIS provisioning server. In addition a unique ID associable with the call server may be transmitted to a CTI server such that a call center screen pop may be created from a call center reference ID in a CTI interface. The unique ID may be tied to a primary key in a database such that data may be pulled back based on the unique identifier.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented by any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Disclosed are a method an apparatus and or a system of provisioning and correlating a dynamic phone number to identify a unique caller according to one or more embodiments. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

According to one embodiment virtual currency or in game currency depending on environment may be used to purchase virtual goods within a variety of online communities which may include social networking websites virtual worlds and online gaming sites. A key revenue driver within social media virtual currencies may be specific within each game and may be used to purchase in game goods. Characters or avatars in virtual worlds may own things within the context of the virtual world and users may collect each game s virtual currency to purchase land supplies and various items used to enhance their status and add points. Some virtual currencies may be time based relying upon measurement of in game achievements in order to accrue exchangeable points according to one or more embodiments.

A virtual economy or sometimes synthetic economy may be an emergent economy existing in a virtual persistent world and may exchanging virtual goods in the context of an Internet game according to one embodiment. Users may enter these virtual economies for recreation and entertainment rather than necessity which may mean that virtual economies may lack the aspects of a real economy that may not considered to be fun for instance players in a virtual economy often may not need to buy food in order to survive and usually may not have any biological needs at all . However some people may interact with virtual economies for real economic benefit according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

Virtual economies may be observed in MUDs and massively multi player online role playing games MMORPGs according to one or more embodiments. The largest virtual economies may be found in MMORPGs. Virtual economies may also exist in life simulation games which may have taken the most radical steps toward linking a virtual economy with the real world. This may be seen for example in Second Life s recognition of intellectual property rights for assets created in world by subscribers and its laissez faire policy on the buying and selling of Linden Dollars the world s official currency for real money on third party websites. Virtual economies may also exist in browser based Internet games where real money may be spent and user created shops opened or as a kind of emergent gameplay. Virtual property may be a label that may refer to any resource that is controlled by the powers that be including virtual objects avatars or user accounts according to one or more embodiments.

Rivalry may be the possession of a resource is limited to one person or a small number of persons within the virtual world s game mechanics according to one embodiment. Persistence is when the virtual resources may persist across user sessions. In some cases the resource may exist for public view even when its owner may not logged into the virtual world. Interconnectivity is when resources may affect or be affected by other people and other objects. The value of a resource may vary according to a person s ability to use it for creating or experiencing some effect. Secondary markets are where virtual resources may be created traded bought and sold. Real world assets typically money may be at stake. Finally value added by users may enhance the value of virtual resources by customizing and improving upon the resource according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

The existence of these conditions may create an economic system with properties similar to those seen in contemporary economies. Therefore economic theory may often be used to study these virtual worlds according to one or more embodiments. Within the virtual worlds they inhabit synthetic economies may allow in game items to be priced according to supply and demand rather than by the developer s estimate of the item s utility. These emergent economies may be considered by most players to be an asset of the game giving an extra dimension of reality to play. In classical synthetic economies these goods may be charged only for in game currencies. These currencies may often be sold for real world profit according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment a unique identification for example Unique ID of or multiple unique identifications may be correlated to a User by means of dialing a phone number through a web interface or through a mobile interface for example the User s Phone . The embodiment may include a method where either a web or mobile identifiable user may opt in to a CTC or published telephone number offer for example Offer . It may be that according to one embodiment that upon clicking or opting into the offer the user may be navigated to a landing page for example Landing Page where the system may database the user s internet protocol IP address for example User s IP Address the identification of the offer the user s own identification for example Unique ID account identification or any other identification associated with the website or user see . The landing page may then provision and display a unique dynamic phone number for example Called ID for that particular user to dial into which may also be tied to the same unique identifications in the database see .

In one exemplary embodiment a method comprising directing a user equipped with a user s phone to a landing page in response to a call request to a call server communicatively coupled with a DNIS provisioning server is disclosed. The user may be presented with an offer visible on the landing page such that the offer may be associable with a user s IP address . A user record may be created such that the user may be identifiable through a plurality of unique identifiers see .

According to another embodiment a dynamic DNIS may be provisioned using the DNIS provisioning server such that a called ID e.g. the number called associable with the landing page may be generated. The dynamic DNIS may be dialed such that the called ID may be captured. The user record may be matched using the dynamic DNIS and dynamic DNIS may be released for re use see .

According to another embodiment the unique identifier may be an IP address an offer ID a user ID and an account ID. The called ID and a unique ID may also be associable with the user within the DNIS provisioning server such that a virtual currency associable with the user may be transmitted to the user s phone . The unique ID may be correlated to a call s duration such that a 3party API Application Programming Interface associable with the user may be correlated to the unique ID and or the called ID according to another embodiment. The called ID and the unique ID associable with the user may be correlated within the DNIS provisioning server . Further a unique ID associable with the call server may be transmitted to a Computer Telephony Integration CTI server such that a call center screen pop may be created from a call center reference ID in a CTI interface according to one or more exemplary embodiments. The unique ID may be tied to a primary key in a database such that data may be pulled back based on the unique identifier .

According to another embodiment a Mobile Carrier Type may be based on the mobile IP lookup for example a user s carrier info may be tied to a mobile IP and may be used as an addition parameter for matching callers . It may be that local numbers may have a higher opt in rate. According to an example embodiment when the DNIS provision occurs it may attempt to use a local number based on the geo location of the user s mobile IP that may already be captured. In some instances and according to one exemplary embodiment the Call Server may have to handle the CTC during the entire duration of the call and then invoke the 3party API when the call reaches the given thresholds or even a disconnect event. In other instances and according to another embodiment the Call Center may perform a SIP refer to the agent call center and it may delegate the call agent call center to invoke the API for example 3party API at the designated threshold. The advantage of the latter solution may be that the Call Server may not have to incur call costs for the entire call duration. Though more cost effective this may also be a more complicated solution as the Agent Call Center may have to take on the task of programming of the API call handler according to one or more embodiments.

According to one embodiment dynamic phone number such as Called ID may be inserted on websites or mobile Internet sites that may enable online marketers to display unique phone numbers on a website based on the referring keyword pay per click ad search engine or online banner ad to track which traffic sources generate phone calls and sales leads. According to another exemplary embodiment a method for tracking separate advertising or sales campaigns on a website or mobile interface may be to provision a dynamic telephone number such as Called ID to each one. When a unique telephone number is associated with an online ad campaign such as Offer it may ensure that when User clicks Offer the unique number may be displayed to the user for example User on the website. If the user then opts to call that number rather than complete the web form that user may still be tracked as a conversion within that campaign according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

Other embodiments may comprise provisioning the dynamic DNIS to a user equipped with a user s phone and determining a geo location of the user based on the user s IP address see . A plurality of phone numbers may be queried for the dynamic DNIS and the dynamic DNIS may be assigned to a user record if a phone number is available and or not expired according to one embodiment. The dynamic DNIS may be provisioned within proximity of the geo location of the user and the dynamic DNIS may be assigned to the user record if the phone number is not available and or expired according to another embodiment.

According to one exemplary embodiment when User s call connects the DNIS Provisioning Server may update the database record by associating the current caller User by matching the dynamic number dialed i.e. a Called ID via a DNIS for example with the assigned dynamic record and may add the user s Called ID . According to this embodiment the User s unique identification or multiple unique identifications located in DNIS Provisioning Server may now be associated to the same caller or user i.e. User .

It will be appreciated that according to one embodiment the User s unique identification for example Unique ID or multiple unique identifications established from the record by the user calling the CTC number may then be retrieved and passed to a third party application programming interface API see when the call may have achieved a specified threshold or pre determined call duration such as the calculation of Call Duration inside DNIS Provisioning Server as illustrated in . According to another embodiment the unique identification or multiple unique identifications may also be queried by the called party e.g. Agent and may identify the caller user by passing back the dynamically assigned phone number i.e. Called ID via a DNIS to the system s API. According to another exemplary embodiment the unique identification or multiple unique identifications may be presented to a CTI application as a Call Center Reference ID and may be used as needed by the CTI application or CTI Interface e.g. a Call Center Screen Pop . The above mentioned embodiments in Paragraph 0017 may be implemented using a CTI Server as illustrated in according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

According to one or more exemplary embodiments an offer presented to the user may be associable with the user s IP address such that a called ID associable with the user s phone may be correlated to the user within the DNIS provisioning server . It will be appreciated that an area code of the user see may be determined using the user s IP address . The unique ID may be tied to a primary key in a database such that data may be pulled back based on the unique identifier see according to one or more embodiments.

In yet another embodiment a user module may direct the user equipped with a user s phone to a landing page in response to a call request to a call server communicatively coupled with a DNIS provisioning server . An offer module may present the user with an offer visible on the landing page such that the offer may be associable with a user s IP address . A unique identifier module may create a user record such that the user may be identifiable through a plurality of unique identifiers . Further a DNIS module may provision a dynamic DNIS using the DNIS provisioning server such that a called ID associable with the landing page may be generated. It will also be appreciated that a currency module may be implemented wherein a called ID and a unique ID may be associable with the user within the DNIS provisioning server such that a virtual currency associable with the user may be transmitted to the user s phone according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

According to another embodiment the DNIS Provisioning Server may implement a loop closure and may release the temporary phone number e.g. dynamic phone number or Called ID in the database and recycle it for future use in another call scenario according to another embodiment. It may be that the call may not occur and the loop may not close subsequently causing the database record to remain idle for an established period of time and then the temporary phone number may be released in the database for re use according to one embodiment. In another embodiment the end user of the present system may not have to supply the callback number for privacy reasons because although the user s phone number may be captured on an inbound call which may not be known to the average user there may be a privacy factor involved with the user giving up his her phone number to an advertiser.

According to one exemplary embodiment the DNIS Provisioning Server may allow advertisers to track the specific search engine web page or keyword that generated an inbound phone call using tracking numbers. For example advertisers may use the DNIS Provisioning Server and the Called ID to measure the performance of their online advertising campaigns and the impact on call volume. At the most basic level DNIS may seamlessly replace select contact phone numbers on a web page with call tracking numbers which may allow advertisers to measure volume. Combined with pay per click programs DNIS may help complete the online advertising performance picture by clearly outlining the results of advertising campaigns both online and by phone. Advertisers using DNIS to measure and report phone calls driven by web activity may use two different methods a server side method called reverse proxy and a client side method that uses Javascript tracking codes according to one exemplary embodiment.

According to an exemplary embodiment the reverse proxy method may be implemented and instead of web requests going directly to an advertiser s website the user request may be routed to an intermediary server which determines what content should be displayed. This proxy may retrieve the content from the advertiser s website and may transform the output by inserting and or replacing specific phone numbers on the page with call tracking numbers based on keyword or search engine triggers. According to one embodiment the dynamic number may also double as a proxy to an existing static number. This may be done via cached copies of an advertiser s website or in some cases in real time for every request through the proxy so that any dynamic content included on the advertiser s page may be reflected ensuring that data may always stay current and up to date. As reverse proxy capability may be more readily available from SEM or other third party resellers this approach may be very effective for local advertisers or SMBs that may not have sophisticated internal technology resources easily available to make modifications to their existing websites. Also reverse proxy may be a better option for advertisers that use third party website functionality for shopping carts or email forms.

According to another embodiment and as illustrated in if a previously issued dynamic phone number i.e. the Called ID expires and is reissued to a new user for example User N of there may be a chance that the previous user for example User A of may attempt to call that number even after it has been reassigned to another user and just before the new user has dialed the number. In this scenario and as illustrated in and according to one exemplary embodiment the DNIS Provisioning Server may implement a proprietary algorithm which may take the User s Called ID and may determine a geo location based on the user s area code as well as the geo locations of all the IP addresses that may be tied to any expired or unclaimed phone number that may be assigned to the dynamic phone number dialed e.g. DNIS see .

According to one embodiment the DNIS Provisioning Server may perform a distance calculation on each record to determine the most likely caller user by selecting the closest calculated proximity of the two points for each record. For example a user e.g. User A may decide to write the offer phone number down and may call it at a later time of his her choosing according to one embodiment. It may be that the allotted time determined by the system may pass and may cause that offer phone number to expire. illustrates an exemplary embodiment wherein the distance calculation based on a user s area code reveals the geo location of both users for example San Jose 408 and San Francisco 415 .

It may be that according to one embodiment a user e.g. User N may also be presented with the same offer as User A and User N s IP address and other determined unique identifiers may be collected and databased. User N may also be assigned a dynamic phone number that may be tied to the newly created record about User N. According to one embodiment before User N may have a chance to dial to the dynamic phone number e.g. the offer phone number User A may call the same dynamic phone number. Since the system may only know two pieces of information about the caller for example the offer phone number dialed and the user s Caller ID of it may be unable to determine which of the two users User A or N may have actually dialed in. In addition the phone number provisioned to the end user may be determined by the user s mobile IP address according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment the system may know that there may be two unclaimed records which may be tied to the same offer number dialed where one record s IP address may be located in a particular geographical location with its own area code and the other record s IP address may be located in another geographical location also with its own area code. According to this embodiment the system may perform an area code lookup from User and may also do a proximity calculation between User A s location and User N s location gleaned through their respective IP address recorded in the database . In this way the system may determine with fair certainty that User A may belong to the unclaimed record which has an IP address located in User A s geographical location according to one exemplary embodiment see .

If the user cookie is not available as illustrated in and according to one embodiment a user s record is created in the DNIS Provisioning Server using the user s unique identifiers for example Unique ID of which may be the user s IP Address Offer ID User ID Account ID or any other form of identification . Then a dynamic DNIS is provisioned and a user cookie is set. The dynamic DNIS which has been previously provisioned for the specific user for example User A may then be dialed and inbound call DNIS i.e. Called ID may be captured. The user record may be matched in DNIS Provisioning Server and updated as well using DNIS as a record identifier. The dynamic DNIS may then released for re use according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

According to one or more exemplary embodiments the unique identifier may be an IP address an offer ID a user ID and or an account ID. The called ID and a unique ID may be associable with the user within the DNIS provisioning server such that the virtual currency associable with the user may be transmitted to the user s phone . The unique ID may be correlated to a call s duration such that a 3party API associable with the user may be correlated to the unique ID and or the called ID . The called ID and the unique ID associable with the user may also be correlated within the DNIS provisioning server according to one or more exemplary embodiments. In addition a unique ID associable with the call server may be transmitted to a CTI server such that a call center screen pop may be created from a call center reference ID in a CTI interface according to one or more embodiments. The unique ID may be tied to a primary key in a database such that data may be pulled back based on the unique identifier .

According to another embodiment the present invention may rely on other selection processes to help reduce the error rate. The system may attempt to freely rotate the dynamically issued phone numbers in the database by using a FIFO first in first out approach but may also include some additional assignment logic. According to one exemplary embodiment if the system may attempt to reissue an unclaimed or expired phone number to a new user it may attempt not to assign one that may have an unclaimed record that may contain an IP location near the IP location of the newly assigned user. According to one embodiment FIFO may be used to organize and manipulate a call data relative to time and prioritization. This expression may describes the principle of a queue processing technique or servicing conflicting demands by ordering process by first come first served FCFS behavior what comes in first is handled first what comes in next waits until the first is finished etc. Thus it may be analogous to the behavior of persons standing in line where the persons leave the queue in the order they arrive or waiting one s turn at a traffic control signal.

According to another embodiment a Computer Telephony Integration CTI may be implemented to allow interactions between a telephone and a computer. This CTI implementation may provide the following services according to one or more distinct embodiments call information display caller s number ANI number dialed DNIS and screen population on answer with or without using calling line data automatic dialing and computer controlled dialing fast dial preview and predictive dial phone control answer hang up hold conference etc. coordinated phone and data transfers between two parties i.e. pass on the Screen pop with the call call center phone control. logging on and after call work notification advanced functions such as call routing reporting functions automation of desktop activities and multi channel blending of phone e mail and web requests agent state control for example after call work for a set duration then automatic change to the ready state and call control for quality monitoring call recording software.

It will be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments the data that is pulled back and or received retrieved from a call center API e.g. 3Party API may also be used for ad server integration. According to another embodiment it may also be used for upsell optimization. Additional user data gathered from the call center may be posted on the call center API upon call completion and may be used and or implemented in ad delivery optimization e.g. may include and or exclude future ads based on trend user data gathered from a call center over a period of time according to one or more exemplary embodiments. User data mentioned in this paragraph may include offer qualifying questions and or offer opt in history according to one or more illustrative embodiments.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices modules analyzers generators etc. described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry e.g. CMOS based logic circuitry firmware software and or any combination of hardware firmware and or software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium . For example the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. application specific integrated ASIC circuitry and or in Digital Signal Processor DSP circuitry .

Particularly all modules of may be enabled using software and or using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. application specific integrated ASIC circuitry such as a security circuit a recognition circuit a tactile pattern circuit an association circuit a store circuit a transform circuit an initial state circuit an unlock circuit a deny circuit a determination circuit a permit circuit a user circuit a region circuit and other circuits.

The static memory may be a hard drive a flash drive and or other memory information associated with the data processing system. The bus may be an interconnection between various circuits and or structures of the data processing system. The video display may provide graphical representation of information on the data processing system. The alpha numeric input device may be a keypad a keyboard a virtual keypad of a touchscreen and or any other input device of text.

The cursor control device may be a pointing device such as a mouse. The drive unit may be the hard drive a storage system and or other longer term storage subsystem. The signal generation device may be a bios and or a functional operating system of the data processing system. The network interface device may be a device that performs interface functions such as code conversion protocol conversion and or buffering required for communication to and from the network . The machine readable medium may provide instructions on which any of the methods disclosed herein may be performed. The instructions may provide source code and or data code to the processor to enable any one or more operations disclosed herein.

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computer system and may be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations .

The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Accordingly the specification and the drawings are regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

