---

title: Supersonic compressor
abstract: A supersonic compressor including a rotor to deliver a gas at supersonic conditions to a diffuser. The diffuser includes a plurality of aerodynamic ducts that have converging and diverging portions, for deceleration of gas to subsonic conditions and then for expansion of subsonic gas, to change kinetic energy of the gas to static pressure. The aerodynamic ducts include vortex generating structures for controlling boundary layer, and structures for changing the effective contraction ratio to enable starting even when the aerodynamic ducts are designed for high pressure ratios, and structures for boundary layer control. In an embodiment, aerodynamic ducts are provided having an aspect ratio of in excess of two to one, when viewed in cross-section orthogonal to flow direction at an entrance to the aerodynamic duct.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09309893&OS=09309893&RS=09309893
owner: Dresser-Rand Company
number: 09309893
owner_city: Olean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 055 for a SUPERSONIC COMPRESSOR filed Jul. 9 2011 the contents of which are incorporated herein by this reference. This application cross references U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 542 673 entitled VORTEX GENERATORS filed of even date namely Jul. 6 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein by this reference.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE FE0000493 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The applicant has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This description relates to apparatus and methods for the compression of gases and more particularly to gas compressors which are designed to utilize supersonic shock compression.

A continuing interest exists in industry for a simple highly efficient gas compressor. Such devices may be useful in a variety of applications. Operational costs could be substantially improved in many applications by adoption of a compressor that provides improvements in operating efficiency as compared to prior art compressor designs. Further from the point of view of maintenance costs it would be desirable to develop new compressor designs that reduce the mass of rotating components since rotating components have generally been identified as comparatively costly when replacement or repair becomes necessary as compared to non rotating parts which are subject to stress and strain from temperature and pressure but not to additional loads due to rotary motion. Thus it can be appreciated that it would be advantageous to provide a new high efficiency compressor design which minimizes moving parts.

Although a variety of supersonic compressors have been contemplated and some have been tested by others the work of J. K. Koffel et al. as reflected in U.S. Pat. No. 2 974 858 issued Mar. 14 1961 and entitled High Pressure Ratio Axial Flow Supersonic Compressor the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference is instructive of such work generally and thus is suggestive of technical problems that remain in the field and with respect to which better solutions are required in order to improve operational capability and compression efficiency. Although the Koffel et al. patent describes the use of an impulse blade rotor and illustrates a downstream bladed stator the compressor geometry described would appear maximally to only enable achievement of pressure ratios stated therein which are at one point mentioned as an . . . overall pressure ratio of approximately 4 to 1 in a single rotor stator stage. And although the Koffel et al. patent mentions issues with respect to boundary layer effects it does not provide for integrated control of such phenomenon as may be useful to avoid perturbations caused by boundary layer interaction with shock waves especially as might be applied for compressor operation at higher pressure ratios than those noted therein.

In short there remains a need to provide a design for a high pressure ratio supersonic compressor that simultaneously resolves various practical problems including a providing for starting of a compressor designed for high pressure ratio operation so as to control a normal shock at an effective location in a supersonic diffuser designed for high pressure ratio and efficient compression b avoiding excessive numbers of leading edge structures such as may be encountered in prior art multi bladed stators and minimizing other losses encountered by a high velocity supersonic gas flow stream upon entering a diffuser and c providing for effective boundary layer control especially as related to retention of a normal shock at a desirable location in order to achieve high compression ratios in an efficient manner.

A novel supersonic compressor has been developed that in an embodiment minimizes the number of rotating parts. The compressor utilizes a rotor having a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow passage to develop gas velocity in an incoming gas flow stream and to accelerate the incoming gas flow stream tangentially and axially to deliver a gas flow stream at supersonic conditions to a diffuser that includes one or more aerodynamic ducts. In an embodiment a plurality of blades are provided as impulse blades in that they provide kinetic energy to increase gas velocity to supersonic conditions with little if any static pressure rise. In an embodiment the number of aerodynamic ducts is minimized. As a result a small number of inlets at least one inlet being associated with each aerodynamic duct may be utilized rather than a large number of stator blades. In an embodiment an exemplary design minimizes the total number of leading edges and thus the length of leading edges exposed to the incoming supersonic gas flow is minimized. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of the diffuser may be wrapped about a surface of revolution that extends along a longitudinal axis for example on a cylindrical shape or partial conical shape. In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a helical or helicoidal configuration. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a shape having a relatively constant helical angle. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may be provided along a centerline in the general configuration of a circular helix in that the ratio of curvature to torsion is constant. Other helical shapes may be provided including shapes with differing ratios of curvature to torsion. Without limitation various examples are provided herein. For example in an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a conic helix configuration in the form of a slight spiral as if located over an underlying conic surface. In various embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be either right handed or left handed with inlets and throats oriented substantially with the direction of high pressure supersonic gas leaving the blades of a rotor. Other embodiments may utilize other shapes for example non helical or other shapes for aerodynamic ducts and thus the suggested shapes described herein are merely for explanation without limitation thereby. A series of oblique shocks and a normal shock may be utilized within the aerodynamic ducts to efficiently transform the high velocity incoming supersonic gas flow to a high pressure subsonic gas flow. Subsequent to a first stationary diffuser gas velocity may be further reduced and static pressure may be accumulated by volute or other suitable structure known in the art. Alternately a second compression stage may be utilized. In an embodiment a second compression stage may accept as inlet gas the compressed gas output from a first compression stage. The second compression stage may have a second rotor with a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow passage and a second stator including further aerodynamic ducts in order to further compress gas after it leaves a first compression stage. And further stages of compression e.g. in excess of two stages may be utilized for yet higher overall compression ratios for particular applications.

For starting supersonic shocks in an embodiment a diffuser may include bypass gas outlets for removal of a portion of the incoming gas flow to an extent that facilitates the establishment of supersonic shocks within the diffuser consistent with a design point for a selected compression ratio inlet Mach number and mass flow of a selected gas. In an embodiment the bypass gas outlets may be utilized for recycle of a portion of incoming gas for passage through blades of the rotor and thence back to an inlet for the aerodynamic ducts. In an embodiment particularly for compression of air the bypass gas may be simply discharged to the atmosphere. In an embodiment the gas compressor may provide geometrically adjustable portions in aerodynamic ducts to change the quantity of incoming gas flow through the diffuser in order to start and establish stable supersonic shock operation. In an embodiment both starting bypass gas outlets and geometrically adjustable portions may be utilized.

For minimization of adverse aerodynamic effects and for improving efficiency of gas flow through a diffuser one or more boundary layer control structures may be utilized. Such boundary layer control structures may be selected from one or more types of boundary layer control techniques including removal of a portion of gas flow via boundary layer extraction or bleed or by energizing a boundary layer by boundary layer gas injection or by energizing a boundary layer by mixing such as by use of vortex generators. In an embodiment the vortex generators may generate multiple vortices wherein a larger vortex rotates a simultaneously generated adjacent and smaller vortex toward and thence into a boundary layer and thus controls such boundary layer as the smaller vortex mixes with the boundary layer.

In an embodiment the compressor described herein may have multiple gas paths that is multiple aerodynamic ducts for generating supersonic shock waves and for allowing subsonic diffusion downstream of a throat portion. Since in an embodiment supersonic shocks may be located within stationary structures such as along a stationary ramp portion of an aerodynamic duct the control of shock location is greatly simplified as compared to various prior art supersonic compressor designs where shocks are located between structures in rotors or between rotors and adjacent stationary structures such as circumferential walls.

Further the location of shocks within stationary diffusers avoids parasitic losses that are present in prior art designs due to drag resulting from the rotational movement of various rotor components. More fundamentally an embodiment of the compressor design disclosed herein develops high compression ratios with very few aerodynamic leading edge structures particularly stationary structures protruding into the supersonic flow path. In part such improvement is achieved because a design is provided in which the number of aerodynamic ducts is minimized. In an embodiment only a single leading edge is provided per aerodynamic duct and thus the number of leading edge surfaces interposed into a supersonic gas flow stream is minimized. Consequently the compressor design s disclosed herein have the potential to provide highly efficient gas compressors as compared to heretofore known gas compressors especially when operating at high compression ratios in a single compression stage. For example and without limitation the compressor designs disclosed herein may operate at compression ratios in a single stage of up to about four to one 4 1 or at least about four to one 4 1 or at least about six to one 6 1 or from between about six to one to about ten to one about 6 1 to about 10 1 or up to about twelve and one half to one 12.5 1 or higher than twelve to one 12 1 .

Finally many variations in gas flow configurations particularly in detailed rotor geometry and in detailed diffuser geometry may be made by those skilled in the art and to whom this specification is directed without departing from the teachings hereof.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual supersonic compressor designs utilizing the principles taught herein or that may be implemented in various applications for such compressors. Other compressor designs may use slightly different aerodynamic structures mechanical arrangements or process flow configurations and yet employ the principles described herein or depicted in the drawing figures provided. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of an exemplary supersonic compressor design. Such details should be useful for providing an efficient supersonic compressor design for use in industrial systems.

It should be understood that various features may be utilized in accord with the teachings hereof as may be useful in different embodiments as necessary or useful for various gas compression applications depending upon the conditions of service such as temperatures and pressures of gas being processed within the scope and coverage of the teaching herein as defined by the claims.

The following detailed description and the accompanying figures of the drawing to which it refers are provided describing and illustrating some examples and specific embodiments of various aspects of the invention s set forth herein and are not for the purpose of exhaustively describing all possible embodiments and examples of various aspects of the invention s described and claimed below. Thus this detailed description does not and should not be construed in any way to limit the scope of the invention s claimed in this or in any related application or resultant patent.

To facilitate the understanding of the subject matter disclosed herein a number of terms abbreviations or other shorthand nomenclature are used as set forth herein below. Such definitions are intended only to complement the usage common to those of skill in the art. Any term abbreviation or shorthand nomenclature not otherwise defined shall be understood to have the ordinary meaning as used by those skilled artisans contemporaneous with the first filing of this document.

In this disclosure the term aerodynamic should be understood to include not only the handling of air but also the handling of other gases within the compression and related equipment otherwise described. Thus more broadly the term aerodynamic should be considered herein to include gas dynamic principles for gases other than air. For example various relatively pure gases or a variety of mixtures of gaseous elements and or compounds may be compressed using the apparatus described and thus as applicable the term aerodynamic duct shall also include the compression of gases or gas mixtures other than air in what may be considered a gas dynamic duct.

The term diffuser may be used to describe an apparatus designed to reduce the velocity and increase the pressure of a gas entering at supersonic velocity. A diffuser may employ one or more aerodynamic ducts which when multiple aerodynamic ducts are used divide the incoming gas into smaller flows for processing. Such aerodynamic ducts in a diffuser may include a a supersonic diffuser portion which may be in the form of a converging portion generally of decreasing cross sectional area and which receives gas at supersonic velocity and creates oblique shocks b a throat portion at or in which in a minimal throat cross sectional area is provided and c a subsonic diffuser portion which may be in the form of a diverging portion of increasing cross section toward a final subsonic diffuser cross sectional area and which allows kinetic energy from gas velocity to be converted into static pressure of the gas.

The term impulse blade s may be used to describe blades used to accelerate the flow of gas having a characteristic geometry wherein kinetic energy is imparted to the gas passing therethrough and at a theoretical limit no pressure increase is imparted to the gas passing therethrough. Thus in impulse blades as described herein work done on a gas flow by impulse blades results predominantly in an increase in velocity rather than predominantly in an increase in pressure. The velocity increase of a gas flow through impulse blades is achieved by change of direction of the gas flow.

The term inlet may be used herein to define an opening designed for receiving fluid flow and more specifically the flow of gas. For example in an aerodynamic duct for a diffuser of a supersonic compressor the aerodynamic duct has an inlet having an inlet cross sectional area that is shaped to capture and ingest gas to be compressed. Inlets may have a large variety of shapes and a few exemplary shapes are provided herein.

The term startup may be used to define the process of initiating gas flow and achieving stable supersonic flow of gas through a converging portion and into at least some of a diverging portion of generally increasing cross sectional area extending downstream from a throat of an aerodynamic duct. More specifically startup is the achievement of a condition wherein shock waves defining the boundary between supersonic and subsonic conditions of gas flow are stabilized at a desired location in an aerodynamic duct given the mass flow inlet Mach number and pressure ratio for a gas being compressed. In general various structures and or systems as described herein may be used for startup in order to conduct the process of initiating operation and establishing a stable shock system in aerodynamic ducts. In various embodiments variable geometry inlets may be provided allowing for a shock to be swallowed through a throat in an aerodynamic duct to thereby start the aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be configured to allow external discharge of a portion of the gas flow thereto in order to provide for startup again by allowing a shock to be swallowed through a throat in an aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be configured to allow a portion of the gas flow thereto to internally bypass the throat. Such gas flow may be reintroduced into a diverging portion of an aerodynamic duct. The reduced gas flow through the throat of an aerodynamic duct allows for starting of the aerodynamic duct. The performance of the aerodynamic ducts when in a startup configuration would be roughly the same as might be found in an aerodynamic duct without adjustable gas flow and having the same effective contraction ratio in other words the degree of blockage of the aerodynamic duct for example as in a fixed geometry aerodynamic duct. However once startup is achieved and stable supersonic flow is established bypass valves or gates or other structures employed to provide for bypass of some gas around the converging portion or to provide reduced throat cross sectional area may be closed or returned to an operating position or operating condition. Thereafter in an operational configuration a compressor as described herein provides aerodynamic ducts wherein a high pressure ratio recovery is achieved even when a single stage of compression is employed.

The term un start condition may be used herein to describe a flow condition under which gas to be compressed flows through an inlet much less effectively than under compressor design conditions and wherein some or even most of entering gas may be rejected from the inlet instead of being properly ingested for effective operation of the compressor. In various embodiments during an un start condition supersonic flow conditions with stable shocks would not be properly established at their design range locations within an aerodynamic duct.

Turning now to an exemplary design for a supersonic compressor is illustrated. The compressor may utilize a rotor having an axis of rotation and for example a driving shaft and a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow passage . Blades may be sized and shaped to act on a selected incoming gas to provide a supersonic gas flow . A diffuser is provided. In an embodiment diffuser may be disposed around a longitudinal axis shown with centerline Cin and positioned to receive the supersonic gas flow . In an embodiment the diffuser may be provided as one or more aerodynamic ducts . In some of the figures see for example the one or more aerodynamic ducts may be individually further identified with a subscript as a first aerodynamic duct a second aerodynamic duct a third aerodynamic duct a fourth aerodynamic duct shown in a fifth aerodynamic duct and in a sixth aerodynamic duct and seventh aerodynamic duct are shown for each individual aerodynamic duct that may be utilized in a specific diffuser design. More generally a number N of aerodynamic ducts and a number B of blades may be provided with the number B of blades and the number N of aerodynamic ducts being unequal in order to avoid adverse harmonic effects. While in various prior art compressor designs a number B of blades of N minus 1 N 1 or of N plus one N 1 has generally been considered acceptable to avoid adverse harmonic effects it is noted herein that aerodynamic losses are reduced by minimizing the number of aerodynamic ducts and more specifically by reducing the number of components exposed to a supersonic incoming gas flow stream. Thus in an embodiment the number of blades may considerably exceed the number of aerodynamic ducts thereby reducing components exposed to supersonic flow. However any ratio between the number B of blades and the number N of aerodynamic ducts should be selected to avoid adverse harmonic effects.

The aerodynamic ducts each include a converging portion and a diverging portion . In an embodiment rotor may be configured with blades to turn incoming gas to provide a supersonic relative velocity gas flow at a selected exit angle beta relative to the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In an embodiment but without limitation the angle beta may be provided at zero degrees 0 wherein the direction of gas flow is aligned with the centerline Cof aerodynamic ducts and thus a unique incidence angle is provided between the direction of the gas flow and the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In other words in an embodiment a unique incidence angle is provided since the direction of gas flow matches the centerline Cof an aerodynamic duct into which the gas flow occurs. However it should be understood that configurations which are not so precisely aligned may also be workable but it must be noted that if the flow exit angle beta is not aligned with respect to the aerodynamic ducts a series of shock waves or expansion fans depending on whether the relative angle of attack of the incoming flow is positive or negative will be formed to turn the flow to largely match the flow angle through the aerodynamic ducts along centerline C. Such shock wave or expansion fan systems will result in total pressure loss which will contribute to a decrease in overall compression efficiency and reduce the overall compressor ratio achieved for a given speed of blades . As an example a variation in the flow exit or incidence angle beta ranging from about 11.0 to about 8.0 degrees at inflow Mach numbers of from about 2.0 to about 3.0 respectively would result in about three 3 percentage points of efficiency loss. Such increased losses and corresponding decreases in stage efficiency may be acceptable in various applications. However in addition to shock wave or expansion fan conditions resulting in pressure and efficiency loss adverse shock to boundary layer interaction and or boundary layer separation issues may arise as such off design conditions become more severe depending upon the strength of the shock wave system and the thickness of the boundary layer system interacting therewith. And adverse shock wave and accompanying pressure signatures may be expected to reflect from blades especially at the trailing edges thereof potentially increasing stress and reducing life of blades . Consequently embodiments tending to closely align flow exit angle beta with the centerline Cof aerodynamic ducts should be considered optimal although not limiting.

A rotor and a diffuser together as depicted in provide a stage of compression. In those cases where further compression is required multiple stages of compression may be utilized in order to provide gas at a desired final pressure for example as shown in below.

As shown in in an embodiment a diffuser may include therein one or more structures that enable startup of the shock wave and one or more structures that provide for control of boundary layer drag as more fully addressed below. In an embodiment bypass gas passageways are provided to remove a portion of incoming gas flow during startup conditions so as to adjust the effective contraction ratio of the associated aerodynamic duct . In this manner aerodynamic ducts may be designed for operation at high compression ratios yet be adapted for startup of a stable supersonic shock system within the aerodynamic duct that ultimately enables transition to high compression ratio operation.

In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may include one or more boundary layer control structures such as bleed ports as seen in for removal of gas from aerodynamic ducts as may be required for control of boundary layer at surface of the aerodynamic duct . As further described below boundary layer control may be provided by one or more other or additional structures such as via inlet jets for energizing a boundary layer by gas injection see and or by vortex generators or see for example .

Turning now to as an example for a particular design and without limitation flow conditions are depicted for an embodiment for a design within a selected design envelope for a supersonic compressor. The rotor includes impulse blades moving in the direction indicated by reference arrow . The use of impulse blades in rotor enables efficient turning of the flow of an incoming gas especially when utilizing a rotor having blades with sharp leading edges and sharp trailing edges . At location A upstream of rotor a small tangential velocity as compared to tangential velocity after exit from rotor as described below may be encountered prior to the rotor as indicated by the velocity diagram shown in cloud . At the entry plane to the rotor i.e. at location B the gas velocity is accelerated as indicated in the velocity diagram shown in cloud . At the exit plane the rotor i.e. at location C the gas has been partially accelerated and is moving as indicated in the velocity diagram shown in cloud . Finally after exit from rotor at location D the gas velocity is as indicated in the velocity diagram shown in cloud . Basically an impulse bladed rotor allows a high degree of turning of the incoming gas through an angle alpha . Moreover as seen in the velocity vector diagram set forth in cloud the vector sum of the axial velocity at location D VAxial of about 628 feet per second the tangential velocity at location D VTangential of about 2004.3 feet per second provides an overall relative velocity of gas stream at location D Vof about 2157.6 feet per second which is thus supersonic for gas stream as it enters an aerodynamic duct of diffuser . Thus as seen in in an embodiment the desired supersonic velocity of gas stream entering the aerodynamic ducts of diffuser is achieved by a combination of velocity of gas through the blades and the tangential rotation of the rotor .

In an embodiment for a supersonic compressor such as illustrated in the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least ninety 90 degrees. In an embodiment of compressor the selected inlet gas passing through the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least one hundred 100 degrees. In an embodiment of compressor the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least one hundred ten 110 degrees. In an embodiment of compressor the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha . The angle alpha may be at least ninety 90 degrees for example between about ninety 90 degrees and about one hundred twenty five 125 degrees or between about ninety 90 degrees and about one hundred sixty 160 degrees or between about one hundred twelve 112 degrees and about one hundred fourteen 114 degrees. Details of exemplary designs for various impulse type blades for use in supersonic compressors may be found by those of skill in the art from various sources. One helpful reference may include a NASA report entitled Analytical Investigation of Supersonic Turbomachinery Blading Section II Analysis of Impulse Turbine Blade Sections by Louis J. Goldman Published as Report No. NASA TN D 4422 on Apr. 1 1968 which is incorporated herein by reference and to which the reader may refer for additional background in implementing an impulse blade in a supersonic compressor design as further taught herein.

As shown in in an embodiment each of the plurality blades in rotor may have a hub end a tip end and a trailing edge . In an embodiment the blades are provided with supersonic gas flow at their trailing edge . In an embodiment supersonic gas flow at the trailing edge may be from the hub end to the tip end of the trailing edge .

As shown in in an embodiment a rotor may be provided having a shroud for blades . Such shrouded blades on rotor will be understood by those of skill in the art to be otherwise as just noted above as regards supersonic gas flow on blades from a hub end to a tip end at trailing edge . In an embodiment shroud may include labyrinth seal portions and . By use of a labyrinth seal or other suitable seal such as a honeycomb seal a dry gas seal brush seals etc the rotor may be effectively sealed with respect to a downstream aerodynamic duct such as duct so as to minimize gas leakage during flow therebetween.

A cross sectional view of a diffuser is shown in taken across section line in . As shown in that embodiment five 5 aerodynamic ducts are utilized more specifically aerodynamic ducts and each having a converging portion and a diverging portion . Inlet bypass gas passageways are shown as useful for starting by removal of discharge gas as functionally illustrated in and as further discussed below with reference to . As illustrated in sub chambers and are shown as transport conduits for discharge gas from respective associated aerodynamic ducts and . Boundary layer control structures here provided in the form of boundary layer bleed ports are shown for use in boundary layer control by removal of bleed gas . Boundary layer bleed sub chambers and are shown as transport conduits for boundary layer bleed gas from respective associated aerodynamic ducts and . In general the sub chambers and for handling discharge gas and sub chambers and for handling bleed gas may be located inwardly from their respective aerodynamic ducts from which such discharge gas and bleed gas are removed.

Turning now to an enlarged detail of a portion of an exemplary aerodynamic duct is illustrated. Here the use of inlet bypass gas passageways is shown as useful for removal of discharge gas during starting of the compressor. Also boundary layer bleed ports are shown for use in boundary layer control by removal of bleed gas to a sub chamber which control may occur during normal operation or during starting or both. Further an exemplary vortex generator is shown within the aerodynamic duct for control of a boundary layer by mixing the boundary layer flow with higher velocity gas flow more distant from surface . Multiple vortex generators whether of the specific designs described herein or chosen from one or more vortex generator configurations heretofore known to those of skill in the art may be utilized as appropriate in any particular design.

In an embodiment such as illustrated in bypass gas passageways may include in fluid communication therewith outlet valving positionable between an open startup condition wherein discharge gas is passed therethrough and a closed operating condition which minimizes or stops flow of discharged bypass gas . A sub chamber may be provided for collection of bypass gas with the outlet valving regulating passage of such collected bypass gas outward via external passageways . In such embodiment the aerodynamic ducts have outlets in the form of bypass gas passageways that are fluidly connected to external passageways . In an embodiment collected bypass gas may be returned as shown by broken line to inlet passageway . Or in the case of compression of air collected bypass gas may be discharged directly to the atmosphere as indicated by broken line in .

Similarly in various embodiments the boundary layer bleed ports may include outlet valving positionable between an open position wherein bleed gas is passed therethrough see and a closed position which avoids boundary layer gas removal via removal of bleed gas . For example a boundary layer bleed sub chamber is shown for collection of bleed gas with outlet valving for passage of collected bleed gas outward by external line . In such embodiment the boundary layer bleed ports from aerodynamic ducts are fluidly connected to external lines . As also shown in in an embodiment collected bleed gas may be recycled optionally shown by broken line and returned to inlet passageway . Or in case of compression of air the collected bleed gas may be discharged to the atmosphere as indicated by broken line in .

In other embodiments as seen in a compressor may be provided using internal starting bypass gas passageways as defined by internal walls of an internal gas passageway housing . In such configuration the internal bypass gas passageways are fluidly connected internally within or adjacent the aerodynamic ducts to allow bypass gas to escape a converging portion and return the bypass gas directly to the aerodynamic duct as shown by reference arrow in to the diverging portion thereof. In an embodiment a hinged inlet door may be provided with actuator linkage for opening a bypass outlet shown in broken lines. Bypass gas escapes through bypass outlet and is then returned as indicated by reference arrows and in through bypass return opening . A hinged return door may be provided with actuator linkage for opening a bypass return opening shown in broken lines in .

Attention is directed to which shows yet another embodiment for achieving startup of a supersonic shock wave in an aerodynamic duct . In a bypass outlet door provides a bypass outlet opening shown in broken lines between end walls and to allow gas shown by reference arrows to escape the converging portion of the aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment an actuator may be provided to move back and forth as noted by reference arrows to open and to close bypass outlet door using linkage to pivot bypass outlet door about pivot pin . Escaping bypass gas noted by reference arrow is contained by bypass gas passageway wall which provides a pressurizable plenum to contain bypass gas. In an embodiment actuator is not a bounding wall as the escaping bypass gas noted by reference arrow is free to pass as indicated by reference arrows and outward to bypass gas passageway wall . Once pressurized the bypass gas then escapes through the enlarged throat opening O and thence downstream of the throat opening Oas indicated by reference arrow . An enlarged area of A not shown but corresponding to opening at throat O of throat Owhen in a startup configuration as compared to an area of Aof throat Owhen in an operational configuration enables downstream passage through the aerodynamic duct of bypass gas as indicated by reference arrow . In an embodiment the bypass outlet door may be provided with boundary layer bleed passages for boundary layer bleed as noted by reference arrows and . More generally startup of the supersonic shock wave is established by opening up bypass gas passageways such as bypass outlet door and then bringing the blades up to full speed. Then the bypass outlet door may be smoothly closed to bring the throat Oof aerodynamic duct into a design area condition which establishes a design contraction ratio for aerodynamic duct . At that point back pressure that is the static pressure in diverging portion of aerodynamic duct is allowed to rise to establish the design discharge pressure for operation. Boundary layer control structures are utilized during operation to control boundary layers whether by bleed mixing injection combinations thereof or other suitable means. For shutdown back pressure is reduced and drive for blades is turned off and the compressor is allowed to spin to a stop.

Turning to a compressor may be provided in an embodiment using geometrically adjustable portion s in an aerodynamic duct . As seen in a geometrically adjustable portion may be positionable between a location for use in a startup condition shown in broken lines with a larger throat Oarea of A wherein the converging portion allows increased flow of a selected gas through the aerodynamic duct and a location for use in an operating condition in which the converging portion is set to a selected operating position shown in solid lines with a throat Oarea of A. The adjustment of geometrically adjustable portion to the operating position and thus providing a smaller throat Oarea Ashown in solid lines in allows operation with a higher compression ratio than when geometrically adjustable portion is at the startup position indicated in by broken lines and providing throat Oarea A. In other words the geometrically adjustable portion s move to change the contraction ratio of an aerodynamic duct . In various embodiments one or more geometrically adjustable portions may be located in one or more of aerodynamic ducts as provided for a particular compressor. As indicated in in an embodiment adjustment of a geometrically adjustable pivotable member portion may include extending the length of the converging portion and diverging portion of a duct by a length L. In an embodiment such adjustment may be achieved by use of a pivot pin . In an embodiment an actuator extending between an anchor and an attachment point may be provided to move the geometrically adjustable pivotable member portion and allow movement such as at pivot pin .

Returning now to boundary layer control structures in an embodiment such structures may be configured as boundary layer bleed ports in the various aerodynamic ducts in diffuser such as shown in or in . Such boundary layer bleed ports may be provided by perforations in one or more bounding walls such as in surface of a diverging portion in an aerodynamic duct as shown in . Adjacent the boundary layer bleed ports may be bleed sub chambers such as sub chamber noted above with respect to the embodiment depicted in or as may be seen in . Thus a bleed sub chamber may be provided in fluid communication with boundary layer bleed ports and thus bleed sub chambers are configured for passage therethrough of gas removed through the boundary layer bleed ports . Although the boundary layer bleed ports are shown in a diverging portion such bleed ports may be located in other bounding walls of aerodynamic ducts such as on radially outward portions or on sidewalls or on other radial inward portions.

In yet another embodiment boundary layer control may be provided via use of boundary layer control structures such as inlet jets as shown in . Note that inlet jets may also be described as inlet nozzles. In an embodiment inlet jets may be oriented to inject gas into a boundary layer in a direction consistent with flow of gas through one or more aerodynamic ducts thus speeding up and thereby energizing the boundary layer in the gas flow direction which is shown by reference arrow in . As shown in in an embodiment injection gas chambers defined by chamber walls may be provided adjacent the one or more aerodynamic ducts . The injection gas chambers are in fluid communication with inlet jets and injection gas chambers are configured for passage therethrough of gas to be injected via the inlet jets . Thus in an embodiment the boundary layer control structures configured as inlet jets are positioned adjacent a bounding surface or in one or more aerodynamic ducts . As shown in the inlet jets may be positioned to discharge gas in a direction substantially aligned with flow of gas through the one or more aerodynamic ducts . As depicted in the injection inlet jets are sized and shaped to provide a jet of gas that energizes the boundary layer by increasing the momentum of an adjacent flow of boundary layer of gas of the aerodynamic ducts into which gas from the injection inlet jet is injected.

In an embodiment injection jet s may be provided in the form of at least one nozzle in fluid communication with a source of high pressure gas such as injection gas chambers . Gas from the source of high pressure gas such as injection gas chambers is provided at a pressure higher than the pressure of the gas in the boundary layer . The injection jets have an outlet nozzle downstream of surface and adjacent a surface in an aerodynamic duct. The injection jets are positioned and shaped in a manner so as to direct the high pressure gas from the source of high pressure gas out through the injection jets and into the boundary layer . In an embodiment the injection jets may be shaped in a manner so as to direct such high pressure gas both into the boundary layer and along the surface to re energize the boundary layer s pressure profile so that such pressure profile approaches a freestream gas profile prior to ingestion of the boundary layer gas. In an embodiment the surface may be substantially smooth and continuous surface downstream of the injection jets .

Turning now to in an embodiment boundary layer control structures may be provided as vortex generators such as vortex generators and . Further as shown in a vortex generator may be located on a converging portion in an aerodynamic duct . Likewise a vortex generator may be located on a diverging portion of an aerodynamic duct . As shown in the vortex generator may include a base attached to a suitable surface with a forward end and a leading edge extending outward and rearward. i.e. in a downstream direction from the forward end of the base to an outward end . In an embodiment the leading edge includes at least one angular discontinuity along the leading edge for generating at least one vortex. In an embodiment the leading edge includes a first angular discontinuity at a height Habove the base and a second angular discontinuity at a height Habove the base for generating two vortices. As shown for vortex generator in in an embodiment the leading edge includes a first angular discontinuity at a height Habove the base a second angular discontinuity at a height Habove the base and a third angular discontinuity at a height Habove the base for generating three vortices. In various embodiments a plurality of vortex generators and or may be provided in each of one or more aerodynamic ducts see or like aerodynamic ducts as illustrated for example in . Vortex generators may be provided in the just described novel configurations or in heretofore known configurations as will be understood by those of skill in the art.

In an embodiment vortex generators may be provided having height Hthat is about 1.6 times the result of height Hminus height H. In an embodiment height Hmay be about 1.6 times the result of height Hminus height H. Thus in an embodiment the height ratios of discontinuities in vortex generators for generating vortices in the respective multi vortex embodiments may be about 1.6 roughly the so called golden ratio . Generally the golden ratio more precisely 1.618 is denoted by the Greek lowercase letter phi . With respect to vortex strength if the height ratios are equal to phi then the strength ratios that is the comparative strength between the first and second vortices should be equal to . Generally as depicted between and likewise in in a vortex generator design a useful technique may be to use the larger and stronger vortex say V to turn a smaller vortex say V toward the surface . Likewise with three vortices such technique involves turning the larger and stronger vortices say Vand V to drive the smaller vortex Vtoward the surface . In such manner a larger vortex V which might not otherwise be able to mix with a boundary layer against surface is able to bring energy to mix higher energy fluid with the boundary layer by virtue of carriage of the smaller vortex Vtoward surface .

In various embodiments as shown in the one or more aerodynamic ducts are disposed in a stator such as a stationary diffuser as depicted in above and may be wrapped around a longitudinal axis shown along the centerline C. In an embodiment as indicated in one or more of the one or more aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser are wrapped as if over a substantially cylindrical substrate . In such an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be helically arranged in adjacent positions at a substantially constant helical angle psi about the longitudinal axis shown along the centerline of the stator C. Alternately the orientation of aerodynamic ducts may be described by use of the complementary lead angle delta as shown in . In such an embodiment the centerline Cof a first aerodynamic duct and the centerline Cof a second aerodynamic duct and other ducts in the embodiment may be parallel. In various embodiments a helical angle psi in the range of from about forty five degrees 45 to about eighty degrees 80 may be employed. In the designs disclosed herein it may be advantageous to receive gas in aerodynamic ducts for example in without turning the flow as delivered from blades as shown in . In a different design as depicted in aerodynamic ducts and of a diffuser may be wrapped as if over an outwardly expanding conical section as a substrate . In yet another and still different alternative embodiment as seen in aerodynamic ducts and in a diffuser may be wrapped as if over an inwardly decreasing conical section as a substrate .

Overall as may be envisioned in part from a supersonic gas compressor may be provided for compressing a selected gas where the compressor includes a casing having a low pressure gas inlet and a high pressure gas exit . A volute or collector may be utilized downstream of the diffuser to further convert kinetic energy to pressure energy in a high pressure gas . A rotor with blades as shown in or shrouded blades on rotor as shown in may be provided to act on the selected gas to impart velocity thereto to provide a supersonic gas flow see to a diffuser that includes one or more aerodynamic ducts . As shown in provision may also be made for a deswirler located downstream of diffuser to turn the gas flow toward the axial direction when required. However losses associated with deswirler may be avoided in some instances and may be optional when discharging to a volute as indicated in . The rotor with blades or shrouded blades on rotor as shown in may be driven by shaft from driver e.g. electric motor or other power source the choice of driver type and size and associated drive train components such as gearbox or bearings etc. may be selected by those of skill in the art for a particular application.

As can be seen in an exemplary aerodynamic duct may be provided in a stationary diffuser of the type shown in . The aerodynamic duct shown in may be considered in an embodiment as generally helically disposed about a longitudinal axis such as about centerline Cof . Returning to the aerodynamic duct includes a converging portion and a diverging portion here shown provided by ramps and respectively on the radially inward side of the aerodynamic duct that with input of a supersonic Mach 1 gas flow generates a plurality of oblique shock waves Sto Sand a normal shock wave Sin a selected gas as the gas passes through the aerodynamic duct from supersonic conditions Mach 1 to subsonic conditions Mach

Similarly as can be seen in an aerodynamic duct such as exemplary aerodynamic duct may be provided in a stationary diffuser such as shown in . The aerodynamic duct shown in may be helically wrapped around a longitudinal axis of a diffuser for example as if the section provided in the present were taken along the centerline Cshown for aerodynamic duct in above. As seen in the aerodynamic duct includes a converging portion and a diverging portion here shown provided by ramps and respectively on the radially outward side of aerodynamic duct that with input of a supersonic Mach 1 gas flow generates a plurality of oblique shock waves Sto Sand a normal shock wave Sin a selected gas as the gas passes through the aerodynamic duct from supersonic conditions Mach 1 to subsonic conditions Mach

Yet another configuration for an exemplary aerodynamic duct for use in a diffuser such as first shown in may be seen in . As shown in an exemplary aerodynamic duct may in an embodiment be in a helical arrangement and wrapped around a longitudinal axis of a diffuser for example as if the section provided in the present were taken along the centerline Cshown for aerodynamic duct in . As shown in the aerodynamic duct includes a converging portion and a diverging portion . In this embodiment opposing radial bounding walls in the form of inboard converging ramp and outboard converging ramp provide a converging portion . Also in this embodiment opposing radial bounding walls in the form of an inboard diverging ramp and an outboard diverging ramp provide a diverging portion . Additionally the aerodynamic duct like other aerodynamic ducts includes sidewalls as necessary to form a pressurizable duct which in an embodiment may be in the form of lateral partition walls not shown in or but may be provided as partition walls individually identified as partition walls etc. as appropriate given the number of aerodynamic ducts utilized as illustrated for exemplary diffuser designs shown in . In the embodiment shown in the inboard converging ramp and the outboard converging ramp receive input of a supersonic Mach 1 gas flow and generate a plurality of oblique shock waves Sto Sand a normal shock wave Sin a selected gas as the gas passes through the aerodynamic duct from supersonic conditions Mach 1 to subsonic conditions Mach

Attention is now directed to which provide yet further embodiments for a supersonic compressor and more specifically for the configuration of a stationary diffuser in such a compressor wherein lateral gas compression which occurs in a channel between bounding adjacent sidewalls rather than radial compression i.e. which occurs in a channel between radially spaced apart bounding walls is utilized in an aerodynamic duct. provide partial circumferential views showing the longitudinal centerline Cof a stationary diffuser stator and generally helical aerodynamic ducts used therein as well as the accompanying rotor as is seen in and its rotational centerline . In the embodiments depicted in an aerodynamic duct design is provided wherein the compression is done laterally that is in a channel between spaced apart sidewalls rather than via radially spaced apart bounding walls that occur in an aerodynamic duct as for example are shown in or as just set forth in detail in for various alternate embodiments. illustrates an embodiment wherein compression is performed in aerodynamic ducts individually indicated as aerodynamic ducts and etc. using a respective downstream sidewall . provides an embodiment wherein compression is performed in aerodynamic ducts and etc using an upstream sidewall . provides an embodiment wherein compression is performed in aerodynamic ducts and etc using both a downstream sidewall and an upstream sidewall .

In a rotor having a plurality of blades may be provided as described above. Alternately a shrouded rotor e.g. rotor with shroud as shown in may be utilized as described above. Gas at supersonic velocity Mach 1 is provided to a plurality of aerodynamic ducts . A converging portion is provided using a downstream sidewall which reflects oblique shocks S S etc. generated via leading edge . In such embodiment the radially inward bounding wall of an aerodynamic duct may be smoothly rounded in conformance with an underlying base such as a cylinder or conic shape as shown in or other smoothly curved shape. In an embodiment bypass gas outlets may be provided for removal of bypass gas during starting for example to outboard or inboard sub chambers not shown as otherwise described elsewhere herein. Upon establishment of normal shock Sat a desired design location for selected operational conditions removal of bypass gas may be terminated. As gas slows in the subsonic portion Mach

In yet another embodiment is depicted. Here a rotor having a plurality of blades may be provided as described above. Alternately a shrouded rotor e.g. rotor with shroud as illustrated in may be utilized. Gas flow at supersonic velocity Mach 1 is provided to a plurality of aerodynamic ducts here identified in part as individual aerodynamic ducts and . A converging portion is provided using an upstream sidewall which reflects oblique shocks S S etc. generated via leading edge . In such embodiment the radially inward bounding wall of an aerodynamic duct may be smoothly rounded in conformance with an underlying base such as a cylinder or conical shape as shown in or other smoothly curved shape. In such an embodiment bypass gas outlets may also be provided for removal of gas during starting for example to outboard chambers or inboard sub chambers not shown as otherwise described elsewhere herein. Upon establishment of normal shock Sat a desired design location for selected operational conditions removal of bypass gas may be terminated. As gas slows in the subsonic portion Mach

In yet another embodiment using lateral compression rather than radial compression is depicted. Here a rotor having a plurality of blades may be provided as described above. Alternately a shrouded rotor e.g. rotor with shroud for blades as illustrated in may be utilized. Gas flow at supersonic velocity Mach 1 is provided to a plurality of aerodynamic ducts here identified in part as individual aerodynamic ducts and . Compression is accomplished in a converging portion utilizing both a downstream sidewall and an upstream sidewall . An upstream leading edge is provided to intercept gas flow entering the aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser. A set of oblique shock waves S S S etc. and a normal shock wave Sare generated and exit gas is provided at subsonic Mach

As shown in aerodynamic ducts in diffuser may be constructed with leading edges . Certain details pertinent to various embodiments are shown in . In an embodiment is shown for a stationary diffuser having five 5 aerodynamic ducts through and wherein each of such aerodynamic ducts includes a leading edge . In an embodiment is shown for a stationary diffuser having seven 7 aerodynamic ducts through and wherein each of such aerodynamic ducts includes a leading edge . Generally the shaper the leading edge the better performance will be provided that is losses will be minimized when operating at supersonic conditions at the inlet as compared to use of a leading edge that is not as sharp. In an embodiment a leading edge may be provided having a leading edge radius R of from about 0.005 inches to about 0.012 inches as shown in . The leading edge may be provided using a sharp leading edge wedge angle theta which may in an embodiment be between about five 5 degrees and about ten 10 degrees as shown in . Also as seen in leading edge may be provided sloping rearward i.e. in a downstream direction at a slope angle mu as measured between the leading edge and a tangent line with underlying radially inward bounding wall . Such sloping leading edge may start at a lower front end and end at an upper rear end . The leading edge may be sealed to or affixed to a radially inward bounding wall at the lower front end and may be sealed to or affixed to for example using welded assembly or otherwise sealingly provided for example machined from a common workpiece with respect to radially outward bounding wall at the upper rear end of leading edge .

Rearward in the downstream gas flow direction from leading edge a partition wall may be utilized. In various embodiments for example as seen in a common partition wall may be utilized between adjacent aerodynamic ducts for example between individually identified aerodynamic ducts etc. through duct as depicted in . As shown in partition walls are individually identified as partition walls etc. as appropriate given the number of aerodynamic ducts utilized. In an embodiment partition walls may be provided with a thickness T of about 0.100 inches or less. In summary an efficient compressor may be provided when aerodynamic ducts are located adjacent one to another. Such design is even more efficient when adjacent aerodynamic ducts have a common partition wall therebetween. In various embodiments a leading edge may provide an upstream terminus for a partition wall such as partition wall .

In an embodiment for example as depicted in a diffuser design may include aerodynamic ducts which are polygonal in cross sectional shape and such shape may include a variety of bounding walls such as a floor ceiling and sidewalls. As used herein the term radially inward bounding wall has been used to describe what might be also be considered a floor of an aerodynamic duct. As used herein the term radially outward bounding wall has been used to describe what might be also considered a ceiling of an aerodynamic duct. As earlier noted in an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may have a flow centerline Cas shown in . Then in such embodiment orthogonal to the centerline line C the aerodynamic ducts may be provided having a parallelogram cross sectional shape which may be in an embodiment a generally rectangular cross sectional shape at various points along the aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment the centerline Cmay be generally helical. The height H of such a cross section is shown in seen radially outward from a radially inward bounding wall toward a radially outward bounding wall at an entrance location to an aerodynamic duct namely the lower front end of leading edge . The width W of such a cross section is depicted in as between and within adjacent partition walls and . In an embodiment associated with the just noted cross sectional shape the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about two to one 2 1 or more. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about three to one 3 1 or more. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about four to one 4 1 or more.

In various embodiments the number of aerodynamic ducts may be selected as useful given other design constraints. The number of aerodynamic ducts included may be one or more say in the range of from 1 to 11 or more for example 3 5 7 9 or 11 aerodynamic ducts . The number of aerodynamic ducts for a given design may be selected as part of a design exercise that takes into account various factors including the direction of gas flow leaving the impulse rotor and the velocity provided thereby and the degree of growth of adverse boundary layers in configurations of various geometry. In an embodiment the number of leading edges for an inlet in a diffuser may be equal to the number of aerodynamic ducts in a diffuser in a manner as such parts e.g. aerodynamic duct are identified in . In many embodiments design optimization may result in a plurality of aerodynamic ducts so that velocity of gas leaving an impulse blade is maximized and boundary layer growth is minimized. In such embodiments when optimizing a compressor design an odd number 3 5 7 9 or 11 of aerodynamic ducts may be provided and as just mentioned above the number of leading edges such diffusers would be eleven 11 or less. By selection of an odd number of blades in a rotor an even number of aerodynamic ducts may be provided for example 2 4 6 8 10 or more. In related parameters in an exemplary stationary diffuser the number of leading edges in a diffuser would be about one half or less than the number of blades provided in a rotor . In another embodiment the number of leading edges in a diffuser would be about one quarter or less than the number of blades in a rotor . In a yet more efficient design it is currently anticipated that the number of leading edges in a diffuser would be about fifteen percent 15 or less of the number of blades in a rotor . Minimizing the number of leading edges and related aerodynamic ducts minimizes drag and efficiency loss compared to various prior art stators particularly those utilizing stator blades in number commensurate with or equivalent to the number of rotor blades provided.

In addition to improvements in the number size and shape of leading edges and related aerodynamic duct components the provision of on board supersonic shock starting capability for example by use of bypass gas passageways such as bypass gas sub chambers as shown in that is sub chambers below the radially inward bounding wall of the aerodynamic duct or outboard bypass gas chambers etc. as seen in above a radially outward bounding wall or internal bypass using internal starting bypass gas passageways as defined by internal walls of an internal gas passageway housing as seen in provides the ability to design for higher pressure ratios in a supersonic compressor. As an example but not as a limitation the bypass gas passageways seen in may be operable during establishment of a supersonic shock during startup when the compressor shown in or compressor of is designed for operating at an inlet relative Mach number of about 1.8 for removal of a quantity of from about eleven percent 11 by mass to about nineteen percent 19 by mass of the selected gas captured at the inlet by an aerodynamic duct . As a further example but not as a limitation the bypass gas passageways may be operable during establishment of a supersonic shock during startup when a compressor is designed for operating at an inlet relative Mach number of about 2.8 for removal of a quantity of from about thirty six percent 36 by mass to about sixty one percent 61 by mass of the inlet gas captured at the inlet by an aerodynamic duct . Those of skill in the art and to whom this specification is directed will undoubtedly be able to calculate and thus determine suitable bypass gas quantities that may be useful or required for enabling aerodynamic ducts used in a particular stator given compressor design parameters to swallow an incipient supersonic shock structure and to thus establish a stable supersonic shock structure at a desired location within the aerodynamic duct s . Thus the above noted ranges are to provide to the reader an appreciation of the amount of mass flow that may be required to establish a stable supersonic shock structure and thus eliminate an un started condition in the aerodynamic ducts in a stator. Various aspects of starting requirements are discussed by Lawlor in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2009 0196731 A1 Published on Aug. 6 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Starting Supersonic Compressors which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. In particular of that publication provides a graphic illustration of typical ranges suitable for starting bypass gas removal requirements shown as starting bleed fraction defined by mass of bypass gas divided by mass of gas captured by the inlet fraction for aerodynamic ducts in a supersonic compressor operating at a selected inlet relative Mach number.

More generally a compressor as described herein may be designed for providing gas to aerodynamic ducts such as aerodynamic duct shown in at an inlet relative Mach number in excess of about 1.8. Further a compressor as described herein may be designed for an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts of at least 2. Even further a compressor as described herein may be designed for an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts of at least 2.5. And operation of supersonic compressors described herein is anticipated to be possible at designs having an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts in excess of about 2.5. For many applications a practical design is anticipated to utilize an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts between about 2 and about 2.5 inclusive of such bounding parameters. Further for various applications as an example and not as a limitation practical designs may be anticipated to utilize an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts in the range of between about 2.5 and about 2.8. For other applications even higher inlet Mach numbers may be practical in various designs as an example especially for those gases in which the speed of sound is relatively low such as some of the refrigerant gases. On the other hand for applications handling gases having a very high speed of sound such as hydrogen operation at much lower Mach numbers may provide commercially acceptable results. Consequently the Mach number achievable for various designs should not be considered limited by such above noted suggestions as an evaluation of design Mach numbers for particular applications may include a variety of design considerations.

Compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio of at least three 3 . In other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio in a stage of compression of at least five 5 . In yet other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio in a stage of compression of from about three point seven five 3.75 to about twelve 12 . In yet other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio in a stage of compression of from about six 6 to about twelve point five 12.5 . In certain applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope of gas compression ratios in a stage of compression of from about twelve 12 to about thirty 30 .

When high compression ratios are required by design requirements multistage compression may be employed as suggested by the configuration schematically depicted for a compressor in . A driver such as electric motor or other mechanical drive may turn through gearbox where required and via shaft a first compressor rotor as described herein in a first compression stage to compress entering low pressure gas to provide a discharge intermediate pressure gas . A second compression stage having a second compressor rotor and stator as described herein compresses the intermediate pressure gas to provide a high pressure outlet gas . In this manner back to back compression stages may be provided in a plurality of stages as may be desired. Thus high pressure ratios can be achieved by multistage operation. As an example but without limitation such configurations may be provided broadly provide overall pressure ratios in the plurality of stages in series configuration of from about fifty to one 50 1 to about two hundred to one 200 1 . Or as another example two stages of twenty to one 20 1 each will provide an overall compression ratio of about four hundred to one 400 1 . Finally it should be noted that multiple stages may also be provided in parallel configuration where multiple machines may be desired for capacity configurations.

In general improved supersonic gas compressor designs for compressing a selected gas are provided by the teachings herein. In an embodiment an exemplary compressor as depicted in may utilize a casing having a low pressure gas inlet and a high pressure gas exit . A rotor with shrouded blades may be provided for delivery of a selected gas at supersonic conditions to a stationary diffuser or stator having a plurality of aerodynamic ducts as seen in . In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may be wrapped helically in a diffuser . In an embodiment adjacent aerodynamic ducts may have common partition walls therebetween. The aerodynamic ducts have a converging portion and a diverging portion that with input of a supersonic gas flow generate a plurality of oblique shock waves Sto S as seen for example in and a normal shock wave S as the selected gas passes through the aerodynamic duct . In various designs aerodynamic ducts may have an inlet relative Mach number for operation associated with a design operating point selected within a design operating envelope for a selected gas composition gas quantity and gas compression ratio. Further such a compressor may include means for adjusting the effective contraction ratio of some or all of the plurality of aerodynamic ducts or of each of the aerodynamic ducts. The means for adjusting the effective contraction ratio may include bypass gas passageways for discharge of gas from aerodynamic ducts to external discharge or recycle lines as seen in above. The means for adjusting the effective contraction ratio may include internal bypass gas passageways such as using internal gas passageway housing devices with inlet doors and outlet doors as conceptually depicted in . The means for adjusting effective contraction ratio may include geometrically adjustable portions as seen in . Even further as appropriate for a particular design configuration means for controlling a boundary layer of gas flowing through each of the plurality of aerodynamic ducts may be provided. The means for controlling boundary layers may include boundary layer outlet bleed ports. The means for controlling boundary layers may include the use of inlet jets for injection gas into a boundary layer to energize the same and increase the velocity of the boundary layer to a velocity more closely matching that of bulk fluid flow at a particular location in an aerodynamic duct. The means for controlling boundary layers may include the use of one or more vortex generators in an aerodynamic duct to energize a boundary layer by moving gas via a vortex from a higher velocity bulk flow portion into a slower boundary layer flow to thereby energize the boundary layer flow.

Various gases or gas mixtures may be selected for compression using designs taught herein. The compression of various hydrocarbon gases such as ethane propane butane pentane and hexane may benefit using compressors as taught herein. Further gases or gas mixtures having a molecular weight of at least that of gaseous nitrogen MW 28.02 will especially benefit using the designs taught herein. And the efficiency of compression of heavier gases such as carbon dioxide MW 44.01 may be especially improved by utilization of the compressor designs as taught herein. More generally compression of those gases wherein Mach occurs at relatively low velocity such as that of methane 1440 feet sec and lower such as ammonia water vapor air carbon dioxide propane R410a R22 R134a R12 R245fa and R123 may benefit from efficient supersonic compression.

The compression of various low molecular weight gases and even those having high sonic velocity may be efficiently achieved using the designs disclosed herein. In some applications where higher compression ratios are desired for example but not as a limitation applications involving compression ratios in excess of about six 6 or so are sought useful designs may be provided using the techniques taught herein. In one example the compression of hydrogen MW 2.0158 which has a speed of sound of about 4167 feet per second at about 77 F. 1270 meters per second at about 25 C. may be effectively accomplished using the compressor configuration s taught herein when constructed utilizing rotors with high strength and using a shrouded blade configuration. Such a design must be able to operate at high rotational rates to provide sufficient peripheral speed in order achieve a suitable supersonic design velocity at time of entry of gas to the aerodynamic ducts of a stator. As an example with rotor tip speeds in the range of about 2 500 feet per second using advanced graphite composite construction with shrouded rotor blades compression ratios of up to about 5 1 may be achievable using the designs taught herein. Further advances in materials and manufacturing techniques may enable designs at even higher speeds and pressure ratios or may provide reduced risk of mechanical failures when operating at or near the just noted design parameters.

It should be recognized that the stator design taught herein namely using a plurality of aerodynamic ducts especially when used in a helical spiral helicoidal or similar curving structure wrapped about a longitudinal axis may be especially useful for various stator applications in supersonic compression further including for example as described in an improved gas turbine apparatus. Thus the stator design itself is believed to be a significant improvement in the design of supersonic stators for diffusion of supersonic gas to produce high pressure gas regardless of application for such gas compression.

Further to the details noted above it must be reiterated that the aerodynamic ducts described herein may be utilized in configurations built on various substrate structural designs and achieve the benefit of high compression ratio operation while providing necessary features for starting of supersonic operation. In various embodiments a plurality of aerodynamic ducts may be configured as if wrapped about a surface of revolution as provided by such static structure. In an embodiment a suitable static structure may be substantially cylindrical and thus in an embodiment the ducts may be configured wrapped around the cylindrical structure. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser may be provided in a spiral configuration. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser may be provided in helicoidal configuration such as may be generated along a centerline by rotating an entrance plane shape about a longitudinal axis at a fixed rate and simultaneously translating it in the downstream direction of the longitudinal axis also at a fixed rate. Thus the term wrapped around a longitudinal axis shall be considered to include wrapping around such various shapes as applicable.

In summary the various embodiments using aerodynamic ducts with internal compression ramps configured as taught herein provide significantly improved performance over prior art bladed stator designs operating at supersonic inlet conditions particularly in their ability to provide high total and static pressure ratios. In one aspect this is because utilizing a minimum number of aerodynamic ducts and associated leading edge structures reduces loss associated with entry of high velocity gas into a diffuser. Moreover the reduced static structure correspondingly reduces compressor weight and cost especially compared to prior art designs utilizing large numbers of conventional airfoil shaped stator blades.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for the design of a novel supersonic compressor system for the efficient compression of gases. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice a selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further for descriptive purposes various relative terms may be used. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. And various actions or activities in a method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete activities in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the present invention. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such activities are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not necessarily need to be performed precisely in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more activities may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other activities may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

From the foregoing it can be understood by persons skilled in the art that a supersonic compressor system has been provided for the efficient compression of various gases. Although only certain specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described there is no intent to limit this invention by these embodiments. Rather the invention is to be defined by the appended claims and their equivalents when taken in combination with the description.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

