---

title: Mechanism for facilitating multiple multimedia viewing planes in media display systems
abstract: A mechanism is described for facilitating multiple multimedia viewing planes in media display systems according to one embodiment of the invention. A method of embodiments of the invention includes using a plurality of multimedia planes corresponding to a plurality of multimedia content types. The plurality of multimedia planes may be integrated to be presented through an integrated user interface at a media processing device. The method may further include selecting, via the integrated user interface, one or more content categories from a plurality of multimedia content categories, and presenting, via a multimedia plane of the plurality of multimedia planes, contents associated with the one or more selected content categories.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08893184&OS=08893184&RS=08893184
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08893184
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 375 filed Jul. 15 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to media systems. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to a mechanism for facilitating multiple multimedia viewing planes in media display systems.

With the growing use of multimedia multimedia devices e.g. televisions computing devices etc. are expected to adopt new convenient features and services to keep up with the growth. However current entertainment systems require a user to access for example television media the internet and personal media using three separate interfaces. Additionally menus used in each of these systems typically are intrusive and not very accommodating of other media. For example when a user views a menu on a television or computer display the menu typically covers the entire display blocking the multimedia stream. Other times the menu covers a portion such as the bottom part of the current multimedia stream without regard for what is being presented in that portion of the display. Additionally such menus are complex poorly organized and provide little information. For example it is cumbersome and time consuming to go through a series of dates or channels etc. to search a particular program or genre.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in details in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.

Embodiments of the invention provide a mechanism for facilitating integration of multiple multimedia viewing planes in media display systems. In one embodiment an integrated on screen media navigation system integrated navigation system is provided as having multiple viewing planes that serve as a unified access point for various media such as television programming personal media and the Internet. The integrated navigation system may provide integration of multiple media planes such that they are graphically readable and usable as well as aesthetically pleasing. Further the integrated navigation system allows the user to perform complex interactions intuitively and easily.

Embodiments provide for integrated television viewing media perusing and or web browsing for a user of such services. For example and in one embodiment these aforementioned features may be arranged together to provide the user a unified interface through the integrated navigation system to freely navigate through television media and the Internet. In one embodiment the unified interface represents and integrates the information e.g. television programming websites etc. provided by a range of devices and services into the existing television or other display in a functionally seamless and easily understood manner.

Media processing device may the same as or include one or more components of a computing device such as computing system of having a mechanism for facilitating integration of multiple multimedia viewing display navigation planes also referred to as integration mechanism . Media processing device may be provided by or reside within any one or more of but not limited to television sets television set top boxes e.g. Internet based set top boxes etc. etc. Media processing device may further include mobile computing devices such as cellular phones including smartphones e.g. iPhone BlackBerry etc. other phones e.g. landlines handheld computing devices personal digital assistants PDAs etc. tablet computers e.g. iPad Samsung Galaxy Tab etc. laptop computers e.g. notebook netbook Ultrabook etc. e readers e.g. Kindle Nook etc. etc. Media processing device may further reside within larger computing devices such as desktop computers server computers etc.

Media processing device includes an operating system serving as an interface between any hardware or physical resources of the computer device and a user. Computing device further includes one or more processors memory devices network devices drivers or the like as well as input output I O sources such as touchscreens touch panels touch pads virtual or regular keyboards virtual or regular mice etc. It is to be noted that terms like media processing device media processing system computing device node computing node client memory client host server memory server machine device computing device computer computing system and the like may be used interchangeably and synonymously throughout this document.

In various embodiments various elements of the media processing device may communicate manage process and or display media and other relevant information with one or more of any number and type of protocols. A protocol may comprise a set of predefined rules or instructions for managing communication among nodes. A protocol may be defined by one or more standards as promulgated by a standards organization such as the International Telecommunications Union ITU the International Organization for Standardization ISO the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF the Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG and so forth. For example the described embodiments may be arranged to operate in accordance with standards for media processing such as the National Television Systems Committee NTSC standards the Advanced Television Systems Committee ATSC standards the Phase Alteration by Line PAL standards the MPEG 1 standard the MPEG 2 standard the MPEG 4 standard the Open Cable standard the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers SMPTE Video Codec VC 1 standards the ITU IEC H.263 and H.264

standards etc. Another example may include Digital Video Broadcasting DVB standards such as the Digital Video Broadcasting Terrestrial DVB T broadcasting standard the DVB Satellite DVB S broadcasting standard the DVB Cable DVB C broadcasting standard and others. Digital Video Broadcasting DVB is a suite of internationally accepted open standards for digital television. DVB standards are maintained by the DVB Project an international industry consortium and they are published by a Joint Technical Committee JTC of European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization CENELEC and European Broadcasting Union EBU . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments media processing device may be implemented as a wired communication system a wireless communication system or a combination thereof. Although media processing device may be illustrated using a particular communications media by way of example it may be appreciated that the principles and techniques discussed herein may be implemented using any type of communication media and accompanying technology.

In one embodiment 1 interface integration logic may facilitate an integrated user interface such as the integrated user interface of 2 inter process communication logic may facilitate a communication network of communication channels between various processes and their corresponding media renderers as shown with regard to 3 message logic may facilitate using of a message routing system such as the message routing system of 4 database logic may facilitate implementation and use of a database architecture such as the database architecture of 5 remote control logic may facilitate uses of various types of remote controls such as remote controls of within the integrated navigation system 6 customization logic may allow users to change various viewing or user profile settings such as changing a user profile placing locks on certain programming moving various items of the display screen to receive multimedia within a particular setup e.g. television media stream to occupy 60 of display screen and placed at the upper top corner etc. changing other items such as display colors turning on and off of closed caption changing the language e.g. English Spanish etc. and 7 compatibility logic may facilitate compatibility between the integrated navigation system and various changing technologies e.g. topology communication protocols etc. and devices e.g. tablet computers remote controls etc. and the like.

It is contemplated that any number and type of components may be added to and or removed from integration mechanism to facilitate various embodiments of the invention including adding removing and or enhancing certain features. For example integration mechanism may further include a display navigation component not shown that works with other components such as interface integration logic and inter process communication logic as will be further described with reference to . The dynamic dual ribbon matrix GUI view may allow a user to select a media object with minimal disruption to the multimedia stream presented on other portions of the GUI view and in one embodiment the multimedia stream may be one or more of a television program a movie a computer game a video game a photograph a home video or the like. The dynamic dual ribbon matrix GUI view may be implemented as a two dimensional X Y matrix such that one axis e.g. Y axis may list one or more categories while the other axis X axis may list media objects associated with each of the categories.

The display navigation component may further include category presentation component not shown to for example determine and present various categories listed in a vertical axis column of the matrix of multimedia panels using text icon etc. so that a user may select a category from the category ribbon. Examples of such categories may include but are not limited to movies sports shopping people favorites favorite channel etc. The display navigation component may further include a media object presentation component not shown to determine and present one or more objects associated with each category and these media objects may be presented based on for example a personalized entertainment channel. Such media objects may be presented as titles thumbnail images live videos etc. in a second ribbon such as in a horizontal row or axis of the matrix and may include but are not limited to movies photographs video games computer games home videos songs audio recordings websites network locations television programs etc.

The display navigation component may further include an information panel and action menu presentation component as shown in to for example determine and present information and action items based on either a current multimedia stream and or a selected media object etc. In one embodiment these information items may include but are not limited to titles summaries channel numbers release dates directors writers producers actors etc. while action items may include but are not limited to future replays episodes searches info surfs related viewings bookmarks favorites records playbacks etc. It is contemplated that embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular device technology topology system architecture and or standard and are dynamic enough to adopt and adapt to any future changes.

It is contemplated that embodiments are not limited or confined to the layout and that any number and type of other layouts or templates may be implemented such that there can any number or type of planes including any number or type of television programming display planes web browser display planes video display planes or the like.

In one embodiment a category ribbon may be used to present or display one or more categories in a user friendly design such as left to right top to bottom etc. The category ribbon is shown as a user friendly vertical ribbon but it is contemplated that it could be adjusted to be displayed as a horizontal ribbon and may include any number of categories such as from one category covering the entire ribbon to any number of categories. Further the category ribbon may be scrolled up scrolled down sideways etc. The category ribbon may include an active category slot that refers to as an active category to determine the available media objects in the media objet ribbon .

In one embodiment the user may indicate the selection via one or more of input devices such as but not limited to a remote control such as via remote control logic of a keyboard a control pad a touch sensitive device a gesture recognition system etc. For example the user may point a finger in a horizontal motion to begin scrolling the category ribbon and for example the user may place all fingers and palm towards the electronic display to stop the scrolling. Other user gestures may be implemented as desired or necessitated.

Furthermore in one embodiment an information panel and an action menu may be presented and displayed on the GUI view and that the information panel the action menu the category ribbon the media object ribbon etc. may be presented and displayed simultaneously. In one embodiment information panel and action menu and the like may be setup to be user friendly and follow good design rules however it is contemplated that that information panel and action menu may be placed differently such as information panel may be presented and displayed on the right or left of the category ribbon while action menu may be presented and displayed immediately above or below the information panel and the like leaving ample room for the multimedia stream . The multimedia stream may include a television program or a DVD based movie the information panel may include a station name symbol logo icon a channel name symbol logo icon the program time or the current time the program name or poster etc. the action menu may include play replay search scan bookmark forward rewind record playback pause etc.

In the illustrated embodiment utilizing a combination of multiple viewing planes allows for building a high performance UI with dynamic and interactive graphics. For example the first process may be a GUI process utilizing any combination of graphics and relevant application programming interface API standards such as OpenGL OpenGL ES etc. for a robust rendering of graphics e.g. 2D graphics 3D graphics etc. using the first viewing plane via the user interface .

In one embodiment viewing planes and are video displays generated through one or more video related processes and various relevant components standards and or formats such as video rendering modules SMD library and provided to the user through the integrated UI . For example using a high speed Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG decoder such as the one part of Intel s CE3100 system may use multiple planes . For example having an MPEG decoder located in the hardware may render the video to its own video display viewing plane such as viewing plane which is used separately from the graphics viewing plane . The second video display represented as the third viewing plane may offer a PIP preview functionality anywhere within the integrated UI . Using this novel technique for example as the user scrolls viewable content along a horizontal ribbon of available programming X axis he she can simultaneously view a live action video feed as opposed to merely looking at static images found on channel guides .

In one embodiment and as with the first three viewing planes the forth viewing plane is generated to give the user via the integrated UI access to web browsers to facilitate displaying of and interacting with web content. For example the fourth viewing plane may be generated and maintained through one or more web related processes such as WebKit or QtWebKit that serves as an open source web browser engine and other relevant components formats and standards such as Direct Frame Buffer Direct FB etc. For example QtWebKit may be embedded with direct FB for its back end rendering such as used as an abstraction layer for rendering the web content . For example direct FB may be used if Qt graphics drivers are not available for OpenGL ES . It is contemplated that embodiments are not limited to this particular illustration or layout and that other components settings formats and layouts may be used. For example any number of other options may be used for rendering web content e.g. Headless Mozilla etc. through viewing plane as provided via the integrated UI .

In one embodiment given a user is expected to interact primarily though the integrated UI regardless of the media content that is being accessed the core or the central process of the communication channel network lies within and is represented by GUI . As illustrated GUI e.g. a GUI software application being the main access point for users of the integrated navigation system remains in communication with media processes via their corresponding communication channels . For example remote process such as a television remote control etc. serving as a remote input source communicates with GUI through communication channel mobile process including a mobile computing device such as a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer etc. serving as a mobile input source communicates with GUI through communication channel web process including a web content generator and or renderer such as a web engine such as QtWebKit etc. serving as a web process or input source communicates with GUI via communication channel and media process such as one or more items represented by and within the integrated UI of including but not limited to a television a radio a television broadcasting company a cable or satellite content provider a cable set top box a radio station a DVD player a compact disc CD player etc. serving as a media process or input source communicates with GUI through communication channel .

In one embodiment and as previously described with reference to media processing device of communication channels may be implemented wired or wirelessly or in a combination thereof. For example when implemented as a wired system communication channels may include one or more elements arranged to communicate information over one or more wired communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire a cable a printed circuit board PCB a backplane a switch fabric a semiconductor material a twisted pair wire a co axial cable fiber optics and the like. Further the wired communications media may be connected to a device using an input output adapter through for example I O sources of . The I O adapter may be arranged to operate with any suitable technique for controlling information signals between elements using a desired set of communications protocols services or operating procedures and may further include appropriate physical connectors to connect the I O adapter with a corresponding communications medium. Examples of an I O adapter may include a network interface a network interface card NIC Universal Serial Bus USB IEEE 1393 RS 232 RS 422 or the like.

When implemented as a wireless system in one embodiment communication channels may include one or more wireless elements arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication media. An example of wireless communication media may include portions of a wireless spectrum such as the radio frequency RF spectrum. The wireless elements may include components and interfaces suitable for communicating information signals over the designated wireless spectrum such as one or more antennas wireless transmitters receivers transmitters receivers transceivers amplifiers filters control logic antennas and the like.

In one embodiment one or more communication components may be used at the media processing device of and as discussed with reference to to be used to execute various communications operations or logic and implement any number and type of communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and the like circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications components may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media infra red transceivers serial interfaces parallel interfaces bus interfaces physical connectors and so forth.

For example a user is watching television and presses a down key on a remote control while navigating the integrated UI the remote process may build a down key message associated with the down key operation and communicates the message to for example the I bus master process via its local I bus B. Now because the master process is aware of the current navigation state within the integrated navigation system the down key message is routed directly to the integrated UI such as the integrated UI of so that appropriate actions e.g. go channel down go to one item down on the menu etc. may be taken within the integrated navigation system.

In another example the user is now surfing the Internet and presses the down key on the remote control. In this case the remote process generates a down key message which has a different function or functionality in the web mode as opposed to the television mode and sends it to the I bus message process via its local I bus B. Now since the message process knows the current state is the web surfing or Internet state this newly generated down key message is forwarded directly to the web browser process e.g. WebKit via its local I bus C to perform a web based down key function such as move down the content of an Internet based article etc. Such messages may be generated and appropriately forwarded by each process via its corresponding I bus A D and the I bus message process as facilitated by message logic of . In one embodiment mobile process may not be directly associated with I bus master process such as a mobile computing device e.g. smartphone tablet computer etc. may not be directly connected to an I bus but that there may be a method or a sub process to connect and input the process within the mobile computing device to or through for example GUI i bus D.

In one embodiment message logic of may further facilitate a particular message format that is appropriate for any given protocol that is being used and used. For example and in one embodiment in case of I bus messaging as used here the I bus message format may be used which consists of a small header and a message body. The message header may have a length field a version field a source field a destination and a message type. The message body may be a well defined structure that is specific to the message type depending on the status event. For example a keyboard event may entail a different message format than a media status event.

With regard to a UI navigation structure within the integrated navigation system in one embodiment the X Y menu structure of the navigation UI can be easily changed via customization logic of if the user wishes to adapt the integrated UI to his her personal preferences. To have these settings and changes persist the SQLite based database may be used not only to store general data and associated metadata but also provide additional structure and solutions for storing the data that is relevant to the new settings so that the settings may persist.

Moreover in one embodiment two different processes may use the UI navigation data. For example in this case it may be used by the main integrated UI e.g. the one that is displayed on the television and also by a smaller or another version of the integrated UI that is provided on the user mobile computing device such as an interface for mobile process e.g. smartphone tablet computer etc. . In the case of mobile computing device the user is able to navigate the media menu displays etc. similar to those found on the television based UI and may in turn instruct the television to play the given media and display it in a particular manner.

Since the smartphone based UI is able to access the local database files by linking in the main SQLite database via its corresponding SQL link B the user may use a smartphone to access local database files as a separate device computer. For example to accomplish this a web server with a small Common Gateway Interface CGI script may be used to perform SQL queries to allow smartphones to access database tables and recreate a version of the integrated UI for display on display screens of smartphones.

With regard to media metadata in one embodiment an appropriate version of the integrated UI may be visible on a television screen as well as a mobile device e.g. smartphone screen using media metadata for writing the synopsis of the details view for the selected item e.g. cover art a movie s synopsis etc. . When a user via a UI provided through GUI or a supplemental UI provided through a mobile computing device selects a television program based on a media ID media process may in turn query database for the media type and the media source location to fulfill the user selection request. A remote control e.g. a television remote control may be unidirectional and unable to use database directly however in one embodiment a remote control s various button code mappings to standardized functions may be stored in the database. Further unlike other processes it is through mapping that the remote process such as remote process of be linked to database .

Similarly web process e.g. WebKit may query database in response to a user s request such as for a bookmarked Uniform Resource Locator URL of a website etc.

Method begins at block with using multiple multimedia viewing planes corresponding to different forms of multimedia content e.g. television media stream websites etc. . At block in one embodiment the multiple multimedia planes are integrated into an integrated navigation system and provided via an integrated UI that is provided to a user through a media device e.g. a television . The integrated UI may also be used to change settings e.g. color language caption user profile etc. . At block inter process communication is facilitated between multiple processes e.g. web process GUI process etc. to facilitate the integrated navigation system. With inter process communication various processes can communicate with each other through the integrated UI as most users communicate e.g. enter information requests changes etc. through the integrated UI they see on their display screen.

At block multi direction messaging is facilitated between the processes so one message from one or more processes e.g. remote process web process may be forwarded on to the integrated UI to promote and perform an appropriate act e.g. move up or down the screen select a program open a website etc. based on the communicated messages e.g. press a key move a cursor etc. . At block any content data or relevant metadata associated with the integrated UI the multimedia content that is being communicated and or displayed multiple processes media device etc. may be stored in a database from where the data and metadata can be communicated between multiple processes. At block in one embodiment another second integrated UI is generated to be displayed on another second media device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a smartphone etc. . For example the second UI at for example a smartphone may be used to communicate changes to the main integrated UI at for example a television to promote certain changes within the integrated navigation system.

Referring to an embodiment of a physical push button remote control is illustrated as having standard numeric direction and functional buttons rear click capability thumb scroll wheel A further supplemented by a touch pad A onboard accelerometers and RF transmitter and a couple of microphones A A. illustrates an embodiment of another physical push button remote control with a full QWERTY keyboard B and further having a set of noise cancelling microphones B B a speaker and a touch pad B.

Referring now to it illustrates a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone a tablet computer etc. that comprises in one embodiment a software emulated remote control device implemented for example by an Apple iPhone a mobile computing device running the Google Android operating system or other similar computing device. In one embodiment the mobile computing device may include a more complex application with a functional secondary integrated UI that is similar to the integrated UI of another device such as television. This novel technique allows the user to take advantage of the secondary UI at the mobile computing device to use it as the main integrate UI or to make changes to the integrated navigation system. Mobile computing device provides a touch pad emulator and two microphones C C.

In various embodiments each of the remote control devices may optionally include a capacitive touch sensor that allows scrolling and clicking for pointing and selecting in two dimensions A B accelerometers and other sensors that detect movement and provide pointing capability that supplements or replaces that of the touch pad ergonomically laid out buttons that are intuitive to use a keyboard that may be remapped from a full QWERTY layout in a horizontal orientation to a more traditional remote control layout in a vertical orientation a thumb wheel that allows quick and intuitive scrolling through a list of options a speaker to provide a variety of audible prompts and an LCD display to provide channel information and other data that is better to be shown to the user on the remote control device than on the main television screen or display.

The use and operation of a remote control in a complex entertainment environment can be a difficult challenge since it can be awkward and cumbersome to look at the remote control and alternatively to a media device display screen e.g. a television screen and attempt to establish a mental map between the physical layout of the remote control and the media device s functions. To ease this process in one embodiment the pointing capability of remote controls establishes a natural correspondence between the physical control interface and the virtual e.g. on screen mapping of controlled functions of the media device. Further advanced power management features are incorporated into each remote control so that the increasing power demands associated with enhanced remote control capabilities are efficiently and wisely managed. For example and in one embodiment the need for data and radio communications during idle states e.g. when no user is detected near the remote control are reduced while still keeping the remote control available for use on demand. Given that as any onboard power supply e.g. battery capability is limited an inductive charging mechanism is provided to make charging as convenient as possible.

Computing system includes bus or a link an interconnect or another type of communication device or interface to communicate information and processor coupled to bus that may process information. While computing system is illustrated with a single processor electronic system and may include multiple processors and or co processors such as one or more of central processors graphics processors and physics processors etc. Computing system may further include random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device referred to as main memory coupled to bus and may store information and instructions that may be executed by processor . Main memory may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor .

Computing system may also include read only memory ROM and or other storage device coupled to bus that may store static information and instructions for processor . Date storage device may be coupled to bus to store information and instructions. Date storage device such as magnetic disk or optical disc and corresponding drive may be coupled to computing system .

Computing system may also be coupled via bus to display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD or Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED array to display information to a user. User input device including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to bus to communicate information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys to communicate direction information and command selections to processor and to control cursor movement on display .

Camera and microphone arrays of computer system may be coupled to bus to observe gestures record audio and video and to receive and transmit visual and audio commands.

Computing system may further include network interface s to provide access to a network such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN metropolitan area network MAN personal area network PAN Bluetooth an intranet the Internet etc. Network interface s may include for example a wireless network interface having antenna which may represent one or more antenna e . Network interface s may also include for example a wired network interface to communicate with remote devices via network cable which may be for example an Ethernet cable a coaxial cable a fiber optic cable a serial cable or a parallel cable.

Network interface s may provide access to a LAN for example by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and or IEEE 802.11g standards and or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network for example by conforming to Bluetooth standards. Other wireless network interfaces and or protocols including previous and subsequent versions of the standards may also be supported.

In addition to or instead of communication via the wireless LAN standards network interface s may provide wireless communication using for example Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocols Global Systems for Mobile Communications GSM protocols Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocols and or any other type of wireless communications protocols.

Network interface s may including one or more communication interfaces such as a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for coupling to the Ethernet token ring or other types of physical wired or wireless attachments for purposes of providing a communication link to support a LAN or a WAN for example. In this manner the computer system may also be coupled to a number of peripheral devices clients control surfaces consoles or servers via a conventional network infrastructure including an Intranet or the Internet for example.

It is to be appreciated that a lesser or more equipped system than the example described above may be preferred for certain implementations. Therefore the configuration of computing system may vary from implementation to implementation depending upon numerous factors such as price constraints performance requirements technological improvements or other circumstances. Examples of the electronic device or computer system may include without limitation a mobile device a personal digital assistant a mobile computing device a smartphone a cellular telephone a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combinations thereof.

Embodiments may be implemented as any or a combination of one or more microchips or integrated circuits interconnected using a parentboard hardwired logic software stored by a memory device and executed by a microprocessor firmware an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or a field programmable gate array FPGA . The term logic may include by way of example software or hardware and or combinations of software and hardware.

Embodiments may be provided for example as a computer program product which may include one or more machine readable media having stored thereon machine executable instructions that when executed by one or more machines such as a computer network of computers or other electronic devices may result in the one or more machines carrying out operations in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. A machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs Compact Disc Read Only Memories and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories EEPROMs Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing machine executable instructions.

Moreover embodiments may be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of one or more data signals embodied in and or modulated by a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem and or network connection . Accordingly as used herein a machine readable medium may but is not required to comprise such a carrier wave.

References to one embodiment an embodiment example embodiment various embodiments etc. indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include particular features structures or characteristics but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular features structures or characteristics. Further some embodiments may have some all or none of the features described for other embodiments.

In the following description and claims the term coupled along with its derivatives may be used. Coupled is used to indicate that two or more elements co operate or interact with each other but they may or may not have intervening physical or electrical components between them.

As used in the claims unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives first second third etc. to describe a common element merely indicate that different instances of like elements are being referred to and are not intended to imply that the elements so described must be in a given sequence either temporally spatially in ranking or in any other manner.

The following clauses and or examples pertain to further embodiments. Specifics in the examples may be used anywhere in one or more embodiments. The various features of the different embodiments may be variously combined with some features included and others excluded to suit a variety of different applications. Some embodiments pertain to a method comprising using a plurality of multimedia planes corresponding to a plurality of multimedia content types wherein the plurality of multimedia planes are integrated to be presented through an integrated user interface at a media processing device selecting via the integrated user interface one or more content categories from a plurality of multimedia content categories and presenting via a multimedia plane of the plurality of multimedia planes contents associated with the one or more selected content categories.

Embodiments include any of the above methods wherein the plurality of multimedia planes comprise one or more of a video viewing plane a web content viewing plane and a Graphical User Interface GUI graphics viewing plane.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising blending the plurality of multimedia planes to provide a composite image embodying the integrated user interface.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising facilitating multi directional communication via one or more communication channels between two or more processes of a plurality of processes associated with two or more multimedia planes wherein the plurality of processes generate the plurality of multimedia planes.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising facilitating multi directional messaging via one or more message buses between two or more processes associated with two or more multimedia planes of the plurality of multimedia planes.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising facilitating storing in a database one or more of multimedia contents user inputted contents user interface datasets and media metadata wherein the database includes a Sequential Query Language SQL based database or an Object Oriented database.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising content provided by a content provider or a user interface publisher the content includes one or more of menu content sub menu content menu icons sub menu icons and a list of current media selections.

Embodiments include any of the above methods wherein the media metadata comprises media source locations media types media element identifications media synopsis and media cover art wherein the media types include one or more of a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG file on disk an MPEG transport stream over a network non MPEG and a webpage.

Embodiments include any of the above methods wherein presenting comprises displaying the contents via a display device coupled to the media processing device wherein the media processing device includes one or more of a television or a computing system including a mobile computing device.

Embodiments include any of the above methods wherein selecting comprises receiving a control directive from a media control device including a remote control.

Embodiments include any of the above methods wherein the remote control comprise a plurality of features including one or more of a display screen a touch pad a touch pad emulator a scroll or track wheel one or more push buttons a push button QWERTY keypad a touch or emulator QWERTY keypad a speaker a microphone and one or more noise cancelling microphones.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising providing a supplemental integrated user interface via the remote control wherein the supplemental integrated user interface is used to emulate and control the integrated user interface via the remote control.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises a multimedia navigation planes integration mechanism having first logic to use a plurality of multimedia planes corresponding to a plurality of multimedia content types wherein the plurality of multimedia planes are integrated to be presented through an integrated user interface at a media processing device second logic to select via the integrated user interface one or more content categories from a plurality of multimedia content categories and third logic to present via a multimedia plane of the plurality of multimedia planes contents associated with the one or more selected content categories.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the plurality of multimedia planes comprise one or more of a video viewing plane a web content viewing plane and a Graphical User Interface GUI graphics viewing plane.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising forth logic to blend the plurality of multimedia planes to provide a composite image embodying the integrated user interface.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising fifth logic to facilitate multi directional communication via one or more communication channels between two or more processes of a plurality of processes that generate two or more multimedia planes of the plurality of multimedia planes.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising sixth logic to facilitate multi directional messaging via one or more message buses between a plurality of processes that generated the plurality of multimedia planes.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising seventh logic to facilitate storing in a database one or more of multimedia contents user inputted contents user interface datasets and media metadata wherein the database includes a Sequential Query Language SQL based database or an Object Oriented database.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising content provided by a content provider or a user interface publisher the content includes one or more of menu content sub menu content menu icons sub menu icons and a list of current media selections.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the media metadata comprises media source locations media types media element identifications media synopsis and media cover art wherein the media types include one or more of a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG file on disk an MPEG transport stream over a network non MPEG and a webpage.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the third logic is further to display the contents via a display device coupled to the media processing device wherein the media processing device includes one or more of a television or a computing system including a mobile computing device.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the second logic is further to receive a control directive from a media control device including a remote control.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the remote control comprise a plurality of features including one or more of a display screen a touch pad a touch pad emulator a scroll or track wheel one or more push buttons a push button QWERTY keypad a touch or emulator QWERTY keypad a speaker a microphone and one or more noise cancelling microphones.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising eighth logic to provide a supplemental integrated user interface via the remote control wherein the supplemental integrated user interface is used to emulate and control the integrated user interface via the remote control.

In another embodiment a system comprises a media processing device having a memory to store instructions and a processing device to execute the instructions wherein the instructions cause the processing device to use a plurality of multimedia planes corresponding to a plurality of multimedia content types wherein the plurality of multimedia planes are integrated to be presented through an integrated user interface at a media processing device select via the integrated user interface one or more content categories from a plurality of multimedia content categories and present via a multimedia plane of the plurality of multimedia planes contents associated with the one or more selected content categories.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the plurality of multimedia planes comprise one or more of a video viewing plane a web content viewing plane and a Graphical User Interface GUI graphics viewing plane.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to blend the plurality of multimedia planes to provide a composite image embodying the integrated user interface.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to facilitate multi directional communication via one or more communication channels between two or more processes of a plurality of processes that generate two or more multimedia planes of the plurality of multimedia planes.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to facilitate multi directional messaging via one or more message buses between a plurality of processes that generated the plurality of multimedia planes.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to facilitate storing in a database one or more of multimedia contents user inputted contents user interface datasets and media metadata wherein the database includes a Sequential Query Language SQL based database or an Object Oriented database.

Embodiments include the system above further comprising content provided by a content provider or a user interface publisher the content includes one or more of menu content sub menu content menu icons sub menu icons and a list of current media selections.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the media metadata comprises media source locations media types media element identifications media synopsis and media cover art wherein the media types include one or more of a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG file on disk an MPEG transport stream over a network non MPEG and a webpage.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to display the contents via a display device coupled to the media processing device wherein the media processing device includes one or more of a television or a computing system including a mobile computing device.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to receive a control directive from a media control device including a remote control.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the remote control comprise a plurality of features including one or more of a display screen a touch pad a touch pad emulator a scroll or track wheel one or more push buttons a push button QWERTY keypad a touch or emulator QWERTY keypad a speaker a microphone and one or more noise cancelling microphones.

Embodiments include the system above further comprising eighth logic to provide a supplemental integrated user interface via the remote control wherein the supplemental integrated user interface is used to emulate and control the integrated user interface via the remote control.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for performing any one or more of the operations mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment at least one machine readable comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device causes the computing device to carry out a method according to any one or more of the operations mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment a computing device arranged to perform a method according to any one or more of the operations mentioned above.

The drawings and the forgoing description give examples of embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more of the described elements may well be combined into a single functional element. Alternatively certain elements may be split into multiple functional elements. Elements from one embodiment may be added to another embodiment. For example orders of processes described herein may be changed and are not limited to the manner described herein. Moreover the actions any flow diagram need not be implemented in the order shown nor do all of the acts necessarily need to be performed. Also those acts that are not dependent on other acts may be performed in parallel with the other acts. The scope of embodiments is by no means limited by these specific examples. Numerous variations whether explicitly given in the specification or not such as differences in structure dimension and use of material are possible. The scope of embodiments is at least as broad as given by the following claims.

