---

title: Anonymization as a service
abstract: One or more network devices receive user criteria for providing anonymization of data from a user device and generate a default workflow for achieving the user criteria. The network devices provide, to the user device, the default workflow and receive user input to the default workflow. The network devices generate and send, based on the user input, final workflow instructions for transmitting data from the user device. The network devices also receive anonymized data transmitted from the user device based on the final workflow instructions. The network devices can provide trend observations of the anonymized data for use by third parties without granting access to the anonymized data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09076016&OS=09076016&RS=09076016
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09076016
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120820
---
Electronic transactions typically include data that enables identification of an originating source. Privacy concerns and or government regulations require particular standards to enforce the security and privacy of certain types of data. For example provisions may restrict use of health data in compilations if the health data can be associated with particular individuals.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods provided herein may allow the user of anonymization as both an input service and an output service. The systems and or methods may support device users who generate data requesting anonymization or consumption side third parties that make requests for anonymized trend information.

In one implementation a user device may provide eligibility information and anonymization criteria via a setup program resident on the user device. The systems and or methods may include returning to the user device an instruction set with a workflow for performing anonymized data transfers in accordance with the provided criteria. The systems and or methods may receive a request to conduct an anonymized data transfer that includes the eligibility information. The systems and or methods may approve the request and may transfer the request to another network device for receipt of the anonymized data via the workflow.

As used herein the terms anonymize anonymized and anonymization may refer to concepts of obfuscating an origin or identity associated with data transmitted from a device. However these terms are not limited in scope to techniques that provide perfect identity masking. Anonymization and data de identification are NP Hard non deterministic polynomial time hard problems in computer science. It should be understood that given time and resources de identified data generally may be re identified by adding other external data elements.

Service provider network may include network devices to provide anonymization services to subscribers. Service provider network may also manage data collection for data compilations available to third party data center . Service provider network may include for example one or more private IP networks that use a private IP address space. Service provider network may include a local area network LAN an intranet a private wide area network WAN etc. In one implementation service provider network may implement one or more Virtual Private Networks VPNs for providing communication between for example any of anonymize stub server eligibility server anonymize web server platform server trend server request history server and de scoped repository . Service provider network may be protected separated from other networks such as network by a firewall. Although shown as a single element in service provider network may include a number of separate networks.

Anonymize stub server may provide an interface between backend systems and user device . In one implementation anonymize stub server may include a library of code used for receiving and executing commands from a stub client e.g. residing on user device . Anonymize stub server may provide an initial interface to user devices attempting to access anonymization services available through service provider network . Anonymize stub server may for example direct service requests from user devices to eligibility server and or anonymize web server . In one implementation the interactions between anonymize stub server and user device may be performed using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or secure HTTP HTTPS via network .

Eligibility server may provide a backend support for authorizing use of anonymization services by user devices . For example eligibility server may store identification information for registered user devices to verify that a particular user device has access to anonymization services provided by service provider network . Upon verifying eligibility of a device eligibility server may for example provide a link e.g. a URL to permit user device to access other devices in service provider network to conduct an anonymized data transfer.

Anonymize web server may manage anonymization requests from eligible user devices . In one implementation as described further herein anonymize web server may receive anonymization requests and may forward anonymized data from user device to platform server for processing.

Platform server may request and obtain information that will be associated with an eligible user device and configure an anonymization profile for user device . Platform server may receive user criteria for providing anonymization and may generate e.g. based on the user criteria a default workflow e.g. for routing through multiple anonymize proxy devices to achieve the user criteria. Platform server may provide to user device e.g. via anonymize web server the default workflow. Platform server may also receive user input modification to the default workflow and may generate e.g. based on the user input final workflow instructions for use by user device in subsequent anonymized data transfers. When user device sends anonymized data e.g. using the final work flow instructions platform server may receive the data and may calculate a reconstruction risk score and or a relative level of anonymity for the data transmitted from user device . The reconstruction risk score and or a relative level of anonymity may be provided to user device as user feedback.

Trend server may collect and collate cumulative anonymized data generated by user devices . Trend server may for example receive data from individual anonymous transactions and store the data with data from other anonymous transactions e.g. from other user devices in de scoped repository . Trend server may apply one or more algorithms to detect cumulative trends that may be provided to third parties e.g. third party data center without association to particular users user devices. Cumulative trends may be presented for example as a Predictive Model Markup Language PMML model and or situational real time scoring.

Request history server may maintain a repository of anonymization requests from user devices . The repository of anonymization requests may generally be configured as sacrosanct data e.g. generally not accessible but to the highest levels of security . However request history server may retrieve historical records from the repository if for example reconstruction of an anonymous transaction is required e.g. for law enforcement safety purposes etc. .

De scoped repository may include a database or another data structure to store anonymized data that may be used for trend observations e.g. by trend sever . In one implementation de scoped repository may be certified for anonymity levels to meet privacy regulations e.g. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA regulations etc. .

Third party data center may include a device or group of devices associated with a third party that may desire to receive and or utilize anonymized data from user devices . For example third party data center may include computers or other communication devices to receive medical research data gaming data or other anonymized trend data. In one implementation third party data center may receive raw anonymized data. In another implementation third party data center may receive trend reports or other data compilations generated for example by trend server without having access to underlying anonymized data.

User device may include a computational or communication device. User device may include for example a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a smartphone that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a tablet computer a smartphone a personal computer a laptop computer a gaming console a global positioning system GPS device a content recording device e.g. a camera a video camera etc. or other types of computation or communication devices. In another implementation user device may include a dedicated device for collecting and or transmitting particular data such as a phone enabled glucose monitor.

User device may be configured to collect user data such as health wellness data gaming data location data or other data that may be subject to privacy restrictions. For example user device may include an application or be connected to another device not shown that collects data about a user. User device may also include communication capabilities to transmit collected information to remote devices e.g. third party data center . In implementations described herein user device may be configured with an anonymize application to enable a user to configure criteria for anonymized data transfers and to selectively transmit data in accordance with the configured criteria. In one implementation data collection applications may implement a standard application programming interface API to tie into the anonymize application.

Network may include a local area network LAN an intranet the Internet a wide area network WAN such as a cellular network a satellite network a fiber optic network a private WAN or a combination of the Internet and a private WAN etc. that is used to transport data. Although shown as a single element in network may include a number of separate networks that function to provide services to user devices .

In the particular arrangement and number of components of network are illustrated for simplicity. In practice there may be more service provider networks anonymize stub servers eligibility servers anonymize web servers platform servers trend servers request history servers de scoped repositories third party data centers originating user devices and or networks . For example there may be hundreds or thousands of user devices .

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone one or more biometric mechanisms and the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of network .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may include a non transitory memory device. A memory device may be implemented within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . As an example in some implementations a display may not be included in device . In these situations device may be a headless device that does not include input device . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

As shown in user device may receive a setup application to configure anonymous transactions. Setup application may be received for example as part of a registration process with service provider network . User device may register with service provider network and may receive a setup application. The setup application may include a first setup user interface to solicit eligibility information for a user to use an anonymize interface with service provider network . provides an exemplary user interface that may correspond to the first setup user interface.

As shown in user interface may include a device information section an end user license agreement EULA confirmation section and a default configuration section that includes one or more variable input selectors . Device information section may include automatically generated information that is particular to user device such as a mobile equipment identifier MEID a media access control MAC address a phone number and or a date. The automatically generated information may be pulled for example from memory e.g. memory or network settings in user device . EULA confirmation section may include for example a link to a EULA for the anonymization service and a user input section to accept or reject the EULA.

Still referring to default configuration section may include default configurations to be applied to anonymization services associated with user device . Default configurations may include encryption level settings and or reconstruction risk level settings to be associated with anonymized data from one or more applications. The encryption level settings and or reconstruction risk level settings may be indicated by user input into variable input selectors . For example encryption level settings and or reconstruction risk level settings may be selected collectively for a group of data generating applications e.g. a blood pressure BP monitoring application a glucose GO monitoring application a body weight BW monitoring application an email application an instant message IM application etc. . In another implementation encryption level settings and or reconstruction risk level settings may be assigned differently for each application.

In one implementation selection of a particular data generating application e.g. BP App GO App BW App E Mail IM etc. may indicate e.g. to service provider network a particular type of data and or user information associated with the particular data generating application. Based on the type of data from an application service provider network may define categories into which anonymized data from user device may be grouped e.g. with data from other users . Categories may include for example demographic groups such as an age range a regional location a gender etc. For example selection of a body weight BW application may indicate data types to be categorized would include age gender weight height time of day etc.

Selection of a continue option may indicate that user inputs are complete and when selected continue option may cause user device to connect to service provider network . While certain eligibility and configuration information is provided in in other implementations user interface may include different information differently arranged information and or additional information than depicted in .

Returning to a user may provide user input e.g. via user interface to submit eligibility information to use the anonymization service on user device . Eligibility information may include for example device identification information e.g. from device information section and license agreements e.g. EULA confirmation section . Anonymize stub server may receive eligibility information and may submit a setup request to platform server . Setup request may include eligibility information and other information to enable platform server to determine a default workflow for anonymization services and enable eligibility server to later determine if user device is authorized to use the anonymization services.

In response to setup request platform server may identify a default workflow for anonymization services. The default workflow may include an anonymization path e.g. via multiple proxy devices not shown and or obfuscation steps to perform on particular types of data as well as encryption decryption schemes categories for trends etc. Platform server may provide some or all of the default workflow to anonymize stub server as default configuration . Anonymize stub server may forward default configuration to user device . User device may receive default configuration and may present the default configuration via a second setup user interface e.g. associated with setup application . provides an exemplary user interface that may correspond to the second setup user interface.

As shown in user interface may include an anonymize configuration map a tools section and a navigation section . Anonymize configuration map may provide an interactive interface for a user to arrange an anonymization workflow e.g. through proxy devices associated with service provider network . Tools section may include building blocks for actions that may be included in configuration map such proxy identifiers e.g. V A a new flow start e.g. 1 a reconstruction risk threshold e.g. RR connectors endpoints etc. Anonymize configuration map may initially include a layout of default configuration e.g. as determined by platform sever . User interface may permit a user of user device to alter the default configuration using for example drag and drop techniques.

As further shown in navigation section may include a back option to return the user to a previous interface e.g. user interface and a save option. The save option may cause the configuration described by anonymization configuration map to be saved locally for implementation and submitted to service provider network e.g. in an encrypted format . While certain anonymize configuration formats are provided in in other implementations user interface may include different information differently arranged information and or additional information than depicted in .

Returning again to a user may provide user input e.g. via user interface to submit a user configuration of anonymization procedures for user device . User configuration may include for example a customized anonymize workflow e.g. from anonymization configuration map . Anonymize stub server may receive user configuration and may submit user configuration to platform server for processing.

Platform server may receive user configuration . Based on setup request and user configuration platform server may set up a workflow to allow anonymization to be performed. For example platform server may set up a final instruction set including for example encryption decryption schemes the anonymize workflow and trend tracking management for anonymization services for the particular user device . Platform server may generate a stub update with the final instruction set for anonymize server and user device to implement the scheme. Platform server may provide stub update to stub server which in turn may forward stub update to user device .

In one implementation platform server may also distribute anonymize process information to other devices in service provider network . For example platform server may provide eligibility information e.g. from setup request to eligibility server for verifying future requests from user device . Additionally platform server may provide user configuration to request history server .

Although shows exemplary components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components and or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

User device may include an anonymity application that may conduct anonymized data transfers for underlying data generating applications. Anonymity application may interface with the data generating applications via for example an API. As shown in user device may provide a service request to anonymize stub server . Request may include a request to perform an anonymized data transfer and an identifier e.g. an MEID a MAC address a phone number etc. of user device . Anonymize stub server may forward service request to eligibility server for authorization. Eligibility server may for example compare information in service request to information previously provided in eligibility information to determine if user device is authorized to receive anonymization services. Assuming user device is eligible eligibility server may provide a response to anonymize stub server to permit an anonymized data transaction.

Anonymize stub server may receive response and may in turn transfer user device to anonymize web server . For example anonymize stub server may provide transfer information to user device . Transfer information may include for example a URL or another link to permit user device to connect to anonymize web server . Anonymize stub server may also transfer request to anonymize web server for eventual storage by request history server e.g. in the event reconstruction is later required .

User device may receive transfer information and may use transfer information to send encrypted anonymized data to anonymize web server . To generate anonymized data user device e.g. anonymity application may for example apply the anonymization workflow from stub update to a data set generated from an underlying data generating application e.g. BP App GO App BW App E Mail IM etc. .

Anonymize web server may receive service request and anonymized data . Anonymize web server may forward service request to platform server . Platform server may receive service request and may provide service request to request history server so that all requests are maintained if reconstruction is required. Platform server may also decrypt anonymized data and may provide the decrypted obfuscated data to trend server as de scoped data .

In one implementation platform server may also calculate and provide one or more session specific feedback scores regarding the data e.g. anonymized data received from user device . The feedback scores may include a profile score that indicates a ranking e.g. low medium high of the relative level of anonymity of anonymized data . The feedback scores may also include a reconstruction risk score that relatively quantifies the information content in the data to the overall noise level in the collated data. Platform server may provide feedback scores to user device via for example anonymize web server .

Trend server may receive de scoped data and may add de scoped data to de scoped repository . For example de scoped data may be collated along with other anonymized observations e.g. from other user devices or from other sessions with the same user device . In one implementation trend server may generate update output models for third parties such as third party data center . Output models may include for example a Predictive Model Markup Language PMML model and or situational real time scoring. The model and or scoring of output models may be used by third party data center without reliance on actual data that may be traceable to particular individuals.

Trend server may manage de scoped repository and or model generation in any of a variety of methods. In one implementation before adding de scoped data to de scoped repository trend server may determine a delta perturbation and eligibility for dimensional reduction. For example trend server may perform principal component analysis PCA to understand if there is a statistically significant change based on the new data and or if the number of random variables in the training set may be reduced. Trend server may also perform a cross validation e.g. a k fold validation of any variance. If a particular dimension is deemed significant trend server may automatically add the dimension to the training set rerun the analysis and output the model to for example a PMML engine. The PMML engine may generate the PMML model for sharing with other PMML compliant applications.

Although shows exemplary components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components and or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

As shown in process may include obtaining a setup application block and displaying a first setup user interface block . For example as described above in connection with user device may register with service provider network and may receive a setup application e.g. setup application . The setup application may include a first setup user interface e.g. user interface to solicit eligibility information for a user to use an anonymize interface with service provider network . The first setup user interface may also include for example particular encryption levels risk levels and or types of data associated with the anonymization request.

Process may further include receiving eligibility information via the first setup user interface and transmitting the setup information to an anonymization service provider block . For example as described above in connection with user device may receive user input into user interface and may transmit setup information e.g. eligibility information that includes selected user settings information from user device and or other eligibility information to anonymize stub server .

Process may further include receiving a default anonymize workflow block and displaying a second setup user interface block . For example as described above in connection with anonymize stub server may forward a default anonymize workflow e.g. default configuration to user device. User device may receive default configuration and may provide a second setup user interface e.g. user interface to solicit a customized workflow setup from the user.

Process may also include receiving anonymization configuration information via the second user interface block and transmitting the anonymization configuration information via an encrypted link block . For example as described above in connection with a user may modify or accept the default anonymize configuration via user interface . The selected anonymize configuration may be stored locally and transmitted to provider network e.g. as user configuration via an encrypted link such as a HTTPS link to establish a workflow for future transactions from user device .

As shown in process may include receiving a request to register a user device for anonymization service block and obtaining information that will be associated with the user device block . For example as described above in connection with platform server may receive a registration request from user device e.g. via anonymize web server . Platform server may collect custom and or default configuration settings based on user input from first setup user interface and second setup user interface .

Process may also include setting up a scheme for decryption anonymize workflow and cumulative update triggers block . For example as described above in connection with based on input from user device platform server may define categories into which anonymized data from user device may be grouped e.g. with data from other users . Categories may include for example demographic groups such as an age range a regional location a gender etc. Platform server may set up a scheme to decrypt anonymized data received from user device . The scheme may further identify particular relevant fields that may be selected from the decrypted obfuscated data set. The scheme may also include instructions to provide the relevant data to trend server associated with particular categories for user device .

Process may also include generating an anonymize stub update for the user device block and transmitting the anonymize stub information to the user device block . For example as described above in connection with platform server may create anonymization functionality that will reside on user device . The anonymization functionality will be consistent with the decryption workflow and update scheme defined by platform server e.g. based on user input . Platform server may provide stub information to user device to implement anonymization in subsequent data transfers.

As shown in process may include receiving a request to perform an anonymized transaction block and determining if the user device is configured and authorized to conduct the requested transaction block . For example as described above in connection with an application residing on user device may generate a request to perform an anonymized data transfer. In one implementation user device may communicate with stub server to verify eligibility. In another implementation user device may confirm eligibility based on previous setup communications e.g. stub update .

If the user device is not configured and authorized to conduct the requested transaction block NO process may include notifying a user that authorization and or setup is required block . For example if user device has not been registered at service provider network service provider network may send an activation code and an activation URL to user device . In response the user of user device may manually register user device with service provider network for use of anonymization services.

If the user device is configured and authorized to conduct the requested transaction block YES process may include encrypting and transmitting the obfuscated data from the originating device via anonymize proxy devices block . For example as described in connection with user device may provide encrypted data e.g. anonymized data to anonymize web server in accordance with stub update .

Process may further include receiving and decrypting anonymized data block . For example as described in connection with platform server may receive encrypted and obfuscated data e.g. anonymized data and may decrypt the data according to a previously arranged algorithm and further obfuscate user device origin information. The decrypted data may be stored for example in de scoped repository in a cumulative collated manner.

Process may also include triggering a trend server to update predictive models block . For example as described in connection with platform server may provide obfuscated data e.g. de scoped data to trend server for trend server to update PMML models and or situational real time scoring. The model and scoring outputs may be provided to or used by third party data center without reliance on actual data that may be traceable to particular individuals.

Process may also include storing a request history block . For example platform server may store service request with a time limit flag in request history . Time limit flag durations may be selected for example based on law enforcement healthcare or other industry standards. In another implementation platform server may check for authorization e.g. from eligibility information or user configuration before storing the transaction data.

Process may include calculating one or more feedback scores and providing the feedback scores to the user device block . For example platform server may generate session specific scores regarding the data received from user device e.g. anonymized data or provided to trend server e.g. de scoped data . In one implementation the session specific scores may include a profile score that indicates a ranking e.g. low medium high of the relative level of anonymity of the received data. Additionally or alternatively the session specific scores may include a reconstruction risk score that relatively quantifies the information content in the data to the overall noise level in the collated data.

Systems and or methods described herein may receive user criteria for providing anonymization of data from a user device and generate a default workflow for achieving the user criteria. The systems and or methods may provide to the user device the default workflow and may receive user input to the default workflow. The systems and or methods may generate and send based on the user input final workflow instructions for transmitting data from the user device. The systems and or methods may also receive data transmitted from the user device based on the final workflow instructions. In one implementation the systems and or methods may provide trend observations of anonymized data for use by third parties.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. For example while a series of blocks has been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that different aspects of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of these aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component or system that performs one or more functions. These components systems may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a and one of is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

