---

title: System and method of a requirement, compliance and resource management
abstract: A system and/or a method based on a scalable requirement, compliance and resource management methodology for designing a product/service, optimizing relevant processes and enhancing real time and/or near real time collaboration between many users. The requirement, compliance and resource management methodology is further integrated with a fuzzy logic algorithm module and/or statistical algorithm module and/or weighting logic algorithm module and enhanced with a graphical user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990308&OS=08990308&RS=08990308
owner: 
number: 08990308
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120928
---
The present invention is related to a system and or a method based on a scalable requirement compliance and resource management methodology.

The requirement compliance and resource management methodology of the present invention is intended for a designing a product service b scoping end to end process steps which are required for designing the product service c identifying critical constrains for designing the product service d optimizing relevant processes for designing the product service e evaluating requirement specifications of each process step for designing the product service f allocating resources human capital and or investment capital for each process step for designing the product service and g enhancing near real time and or real time collaboration between users.

One currently available product IBM Rational DOORS software program enables to capture trace analyze and manage changes to requirements. IBM Rational DOORS also helps to demonstrate compliance to regulations and standards.

IBM Rational DOORS software allows all stakeholders to actively participate in the requirements process. It has ability to manage changing requirements with scalability. Its life cycle traceability can help teams align the methods and processes and also measure the impact of such methods and processes.

In sharp contrast to IBM Rational DOORS the requirement compliance and resource management methodology of the present invention is uniquely enhanced with mathematical algorithms e.g. fuzzy logic statistics and weighting logic to account for any inherent approximation variability and uncertainty in a process step and or all cumulative process steps. This is a significant innovation compared to IBM Rational DOORS .

Furthermore the requirement compliance and resource management methodology of the present invention synthesizes optimization of relevant process steps requirements resources and critical constraints for near real time and or real time collaboration.

Furthermore the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or can be customized to fit any product service in any industry.

The requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in configured enhanced with the question answer format of a requirement input module and the fuzzy logic algorithm module can be designated as the requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in .

Fuzzy means not clear blurred . Fuzzy logic is a form of approximate reasoning that can be used to represent variation or imprecision in logic by making use of natural language NL in logic.

Approximation is inherent and inevitable in any process step and approximation can be modeled and managed explicitly. A fuzzy logic algorithm module can represent approximations for inputs and outputs in the requirement compliance and resource management methodology .

The requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in configured enhanced with a statistical algorithm module and a weighting logic algorithm module can be designated as the requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in .

Uncertainty variation is inherent and inevitable in any process step and uncertainty variation can be modeled and managed explicitly. A statistical algorithm module can represent uncertainty variation for inputs and outputs in the requirement compliance and resource management methodology .

The requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or can be integrated with an enterprise storage system e.g. an enterprise server and or an enterprise device e.g. a laptop and a mobile internet appliance .

Alternatively the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or can be located at a cloud storage system for software as a service SaaS .

Many components of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or are modular to permit automating some functions but not automating other functions.

Furthermore the components of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or can include a transactional database b management portal dashboard c business intelligence system d customizable reporting e external access via internet f search g document management h messaging chat and i workflow management.

Best practices can be incorporated in the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or . This means that the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or can reflect a defined interpretation as the most effective way to perform a process step and a customer can also modify the best practices.

Furthermore the requirement compliance and resource management methodology or or can be configured with an application programming interface API to integrate e.g. direct integration and or database integration with other software programs e.g. MS Word MS Excel MS Project and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP .

Enterprise Resource Planning ERP is an integrated software program system that operates in near real time and or real time without relying on periodic updates with a common database which supports a finance accounting general ledger payables cash management fixed assets receivables budgeting and consolidation b human resources payroll training benefits 401K recruiting and diversity management c manufacturing bill of materials engineering work orders scheduling capacity workflow management quality control cost management manufacturing process manufacturing projects manufacturing flow activity based costing and product life cycle management d supply chain management order to cash inventory order entry purchasing product configurator supply chain planning supplier scheduling inspection of goods claim processing and commissions e project management costing billing time and expense performance units and activity management and f customer relationship management sales and marketing commissions service customer contact and call center support .

Event verification module F can be configured with an application programming interface API to integrate e.g. direct integration and or database integration the requirement compliance and resource management methodology with other software programs e.g. MS Word MS Excel MS Project and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP .

Graphical user interface module A can be configured a search interface for input data interpretation of input data analysis output data and interpretation of output data.

The requirement processing module A can include an embedded constraint analysis tool. It adopts the common idiom that a chain is no stronger than its weakest link.

Assuming the goal of a project and its success failure measurements are clearly defined then the process steps of the embedded constraint analysis tool are 

Buffer can be used to protect the constraint from varying in the entire the requirement compliance and resource management methodology. Buffer can allow for normal variation and the occasional upset before and behind the constraint.

The event coordination matrix ECM is a tool that can enable cross functional and cross enterprise coordination for facilitating verification validation certification and accreditation VVC A planning and execution.

The development of the ECM can be driving factor in verification planning activities. Typically ECM can be developed early in the verification planning process to drive an early adoption amongst key stakeholders and also to allow for an identification of potential discrepancies as early as possible.

The responsibility of the development of the ECM primarily relies on inputs from a test and verification T V team a system engineering SE team and an enterprise integration EI team with additional inputs provided by specialty engineering quality assurance mission assurance information assurance and logistics planning.

The development population and refinement of the ECM is coordinated both within the system engineering integration SE I organization and prime contractor organization by the EI team to ensure a thorough and balanced approach across the enterprise.

Once all requirements both imposed and derived have been addressed through VVC A and identified by the SE team then all activities or events where the VVC A will occur have been identified by the T V team the requirements are then allocated to the set of specific events.

As depicted in the left side of the ECM includes the requirements information and the top of the ECM addresses the individual events that are planned to accomplish the VVC A.

Within the ECM all activities and events where VVC A to be performed are documented and tracked. The objective of the ECM is to correlate all requirements to specific activities and events. By focusing on all VVC A activities as opposed to test only it becomes possible to optimize the T V approach across the entire breadth of the program allowing the T V team to factor in analysis inspection and demonstration events into their verification planning. By analyzing the VVC A activities across the program the T V team can act in a truly integrated fashion optimizing the development and re use of test data scenarios run conditions truth models environmental conditions and even the execution of entire events to allow for efficient planning.

By looking at the complete picture of all integrated verification activities the SE I organization truly has insight and oversight into the planned activities of the prime contractors and can identify areas of the program where there is either not enough verification being planned for example mission critical requirements MCRs interoperability requirements and critical technical parameter CTP requirements or too much verification being planned redundant or extraneous events .

An added benefit of this integrated approach to verification planning is that it now becomes possible for the T V organization to report confidence to the customer about when technical functionality will come on board and also to understand the impact of changes to schedule performance and budget thereby facilitating more accurate trade analysis and higher confidence recommendations on how to solve both programmatic and technical problems as they arise.

A key consideration to note is the time phase approach to the identification of Analysis Inspection Demonstration Test AIDT events. Identifying events that only represent final acceptance tests FAT as the primary focus of an integrated T V approach is short sighted and will not allow the SE I to truly act as a system integrator thereby making it much more difficult to report incremental progress and thus confidence to the customer. As the program progresses the SE I organization has identified analysis events that will occur prior to FAT. These analysis events allow the SE I organization to analyze the technical details of the prime contractor s exercises rehearsals and even internal verification activities.

By scheduling analysis events that are centered on both technical capability delivery and reasonable time phasing the SE I organization can more accurately predict when technical capabilities will be delivered and provide more accurate actionable data upon which the customer can make decisions.

Another key consideration is the design versus acceptance verification. The design verification encompasses those things typically performed once for a system induced environments etc. and in many cases by inspection. The acceptance verification can occur on a component by component or build by build basis. As the requirements are allocated to the events the verification type AIDT is captured in the ECM to ensure that the validation and verification is addressed adequately.

Given the considerations defined above in order to optimize the benefit of a truly integrated SE I methodology all aspects of VVC A have to be addressed in one matrix ensuring the AIDT and VVC A activities can be performed once and at the lowest cost risk and most optimum time venue.

Tables A B C D and E describe the features and benefits of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in .

The key features and benefits of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology are listed below 

Requirement Processing Module A Feature Specification author book boss assignments. Requirement Processing Module A Benefit Provides ability to assign personnel with read write access to specifications and requirements.

Compliance Legal Module B Feature Import legal regularity requirements i.e. HIPAA . Compliance Legal Module B Benefit Single source for legal regulatory requirement in a true relational database.

Requirement Input Module C Feature 1 Import customer requirements from MS Word MS Excel pdf into database. Requirement Input Module C Benefit 1 Seamless import allows users to consolidate requirements into single true relational database. Requirement Input Module C Feature 2 Incorporates non textual objects and images into database. Requirement Input Module C Benefit 2 Allows non textual objects to be associated with requirements objects.

Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 1 TPM risk critical issue tracking and control. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefits 1 Insightful reporting capability provides visibility to critical issues and unresolved actions enabling efficient resource allocation. Specifications and Matrices Module D Features 2 Overall project completion status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefits 2 Simple dashboard metrics which provide completion status at all levels of integration up to final end item delivery. Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 3 Open action status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefit 3 Quick and easy access to program action items and completion status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 4 Program usage statistics. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefit 4 Real time metrics which display iris user statistics such as user frequency and duration.

Resource Allocation Module E Feature 1 Hardware software resource management. Resource Allocation Module E Benefit 1 Allows for quick and easy reservation of hardware software components needed to perform verification activities in specific facilities locations. Flags if there is a scheduling conflict in hardware software resource allocation. Provides resource time and cost for each event. Resource Allocation Module E Feature 2 Personnel resource management. Resource Allocation Module E Benefit 2 Allows for quick and easy reservation of personnel and subject matter experts needed to perform verification activities in specific facilities locations. Flags if there is a scheduling conflict in hardware software resource allocation. Provides resource time and cost for each event.

Event Verification Module F Feature 1 Allocation of requirements to verification events. Event Verification Module F Benefit 1 Provides real time visibility to verification strategies configuration and objectives thereby providing programs the ability to leverage verification activities in support of agile acquisition initiatives. Enables collaboration ensuring early identification of risks. Event Verification Module F Feature 2 Customizable verification event coordination matrix. Event Verification Module F Benefit 2 Customizable event coordination matrix ECM generator which allows users to organize and group events by end item deliverables and engineering disciplines. Provides ability for users to see if they can move requirements to another event and the event in question may also eliminated thereby streamlining verification activities. Event Verification Module F Feature 3 Event resource management. Event Verification Module F Benefit 3 Tightly couples required verification event resources to integrated schedules to better coordinate resources. Event Verification Module F Feature 4 Event configuration control and change history. Event Verification Module F Benefit 4 Ensures verification baseline is under strict configuration control. Maintains a detailed history of all changes against specific verification activities. Event Verification Module F Feature 5 Traceability from requirements to compliance data artifacts. Event Verification Module F Benefit 5 Provides closed loop automated hyperlinks which provide quick access to requirements compliance data and related artifacts. Event Verification Module F Feature 6 Verification activity linkage to MS project schedules. Event Verification Module F Benefit 6 Tightly couples verification activities with program milestones to ensure timely end item delivery. Event Verification Module F Feature 7 Electronic signature event planning and completion . Event Verification Module F Benefit 7 Electronic signature capability dramatically reduces test activity approval cycle. Event Verification Module F Feature 8 Enterprise integration with external data sources. Event Verification Module F Benefit 8 Allows for correlation of data elements across the enterprise dramatically improving collaboration increasing work force efficiency and reducing cost.

Graphical User Interface Module A Feature 1 Simple and intuitive GUI user interface. Graphical User Interface Module A Benefit 1 Simple intuitive interface provides powerful capabilities for importing linking analyzing reporting and managing requirements including traceability to associated project verification events and team assignments. Requires minimal user training. Graphical User Interface Module A Feature 2 Ready for use upon installation. Graphical User Interface Module A Benefit 2 No custom scripting required results in lower implementation cost faster usage. May be tailored to support specific project processes.

A major challenge in the requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in is in qualitative and imprecise terms.

The use of soft functional requirements in a task based specification methodology can capture the imprecise requirements and formulate soft functional requirements using a fuzzy logic algorithm module. More specifically the soft functional requirements can be represented by canonical form in test score semantics.

A fuzzy logic algorithm module can be implemented as follows a define linguistic variables and terms b construct membership functions c construct rule base d convert crisp inputs into fuzzy values utilizing membership functions fuzzification e evaluate rules in the rule base inference f combine the results of each rules inference and g convert outputs into non fuzzy values de fuzzification .

Tables A B C D and E describe the features and benefits of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in .

The key features and benefits of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology are listed below 

Requirement Processing Module A Feature Specification author book boss assignments. Requirement Processing Module A Benefit Provides ability to assign personnel with read write access to specifications and requirements.

Compliance Legal Module B Feature Import legal regularity requirements i.e. HIPPA . Compliance Legal Module B Benefit Single source for legal regulatory requirement in a true relational database.

Requirement Input Module C Feature 1 Import customer requirements from MS Word MS Excel pdf into database. Requirement Input Module C Benefit 1 Seamless import allows users to consolidate requirements into single true relational database. Requirement Input Module C Feature 2 Incorporates non textual objects and images into database. Requirement Input Module C Benefit 2 Allows non textual objects to be associated with requirements objects.

Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 1 TPM risk critical issue tracking and control. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefits 1 Insightful reporting capability provides visibility to critical issues and unresolved actions enabling efficient resource allocation. Specifications and Matrices Module D Features 2 Overall project completion status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefits 2 Simple dashboard metrics which provide completion status at all levels of integration up to final end item delivery. Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 3 Open action status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefit 3 Quick and easy access to program action items and completion status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 4 Program usage statistics. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefit 4 Real time metrics which display iris user statistics such as user frequency and duration.

Resource Allocation Module E Feature 1 Hardware software resource management. Resource Allocation Module E Benefit 1 Allows for quick and easy reservation of hardware software components needed to perform verification activities in specific facilities locations. Flags if there is a scheduling conflict in hardware software resource allocation. Provides resource time and cost for each event. Resource Allocation Module E Feature 2 Personnel resource management. Resource Allocation Module E Benefit 2 Allows for quick and easy reservation of personnel and subject matter experts needed to perform verification activities in specific facilities locations. Flags if there is a scheduling conflict in hardware software resource allocation. Provides resource time and cost for each event.

Event Verification Module F Feature 1 Allocation of requirements to verification events. Event Verification Module F Benefit 1 Provides real time visibility to verification strategies configuration and objectives thereby providing programs the ability to leverage verification activities in support of agile acquisition initiatives. Enables collaboration ensuring early identification of risks. Event Verification Module F Feature 2 Customizable verification event coordination matrix. Event Verification Module F Benefit 2 Customizable event coordination matrix ECM generator which allows users to organize and group events by end item deliverables and engineering disciplines. Provides ability for users to see if they can move requirements to another event and the event in question may also eliminated thereby streamlining verification activities. Event Verification Module F Feature 3 Event resource management. Event Verification Module F Benefit 3 Tightly couples required verification event resources to integrated schedules to better coordinate resources. Event Verification Module F Feature 4 Event configuration control and change history. Event Verification Module F Benefit 4 Ensures verification baseline is under strict configuration control. Maintains a detailed history of all changes against specific verification activities. Event Verification Module F Feature 5 Traceability from requirements to compliance data artifacts. Event Verification Module F Benefit 5 Provides closed loop automated hyperlinks which provide quick access to requirements compliance data and related artifacts. Event Verification Module F Feature 6 Verification activity linkage to MS project schedules. Event Verification Module F Benefit 6 Tightly couples verification activities with program milestones to ensure timely end item delivery. Event Verification Module F Feature 7 Electronic signature event planning and completion . Event Verification Module F Benefit 7 Electronic signature capability dramatically reduces test activity approval cycle. Event Verification Module F Feature 8 Enterprise integration with external data sources. Event Verification Module F Benefit 8 Allows for correlation of data elements across the enterprise dramatically improving collaboration increasing work force efficiency and reducing cost.

Graphical User Interface Module A Feature 1 Simple and intuitive GUI user interface. Graphical User Interface Module A Benefit 1 Simple intuitive interface provides powerful capabilities for importing linking analyzing reporting and managing requirements including traceability to associated project verification events and team assignments. Requires minimal user training. Graphical User Interface Module A Feature 2 Ready for use upon installation. Graphical User Interface Module A Benefit 2 No custom scripting required results in lower implementation cost faster usage. May be tailored to support specific project processes.

Question Answer Format For Requirement Input Module C Feature 1 Project setup question and answer. Question Answer Format For Requirement Input Module C Benefit 1 Step by step question and answer that allows user to quickly and easily set up a new project.

Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Feature 1 Verification completion decision fuzzy logic . Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Benefit 1 Enables program decision makers to assess when verification is good enough. Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Feature 2 Requirement goodness estimation fuzzy logic . Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Benefit 2 Evaluates requirement goodness thereby reducing requirement rework and verification resource waste.

In the weighting logic algorithm module F provides a method of increasing confidence in the prediction of TPMs. Parametric values are vertically summed for each level of integration for a given system i.e. System Segment Element and Assembly and shown in the Spec Sum row. An arbitrary numeric scaling factor or weight is applied to each level of assembly thereby increasing the influence that the summed value has on the overall system for that particular level of integration. Summed values are multiplied by respective scale factors to produce a scaled total which is then added to yield an overall verification amount 485 in this example. The system level parametric value of 15 is then divided by 485 to yield 0.0309 an effective system level scaling factor which can be applied to each measured value of the overall system.

In the system level scaling factor 0.0309 is multiplied by each measured value in the tree then multiplied by the Spec Scale factor from . To obtain the Scaled Total values the system level scaling factor 0.0309 is multiplies by the Spec Sum which is then multiplied by the scale factor for each level of integration. For example the Scaled Total value for the Segment level of integration would be system level scaling factor 0.0309 Spec Scale Factor 2 Spec Sum 21 1.30.

In to obtain the percent total that each level of integration s verification data contributes to the overall system level TPM the Scaled Total values from is divided by the System level requirement value 15 . For example the assembly level contribution would be 9.40 15 or 62.7 .

The requirement compliance and resource management methodology can provide a method of predicting system performance parameters throughout the program development life cycle. As top level system requirements or technical performance measurements TPMs are assessed a statistical weighting algorithm gives users the ability to weight or influence the empirical data of some elements more than others in the same set.

As measurements are collected to verify lower level requirements the requirement compliance and resource management methodology can provide users with the ability to assign an arbitrary weighting coefficient to these measurements to increase their influence on the top level performance prediction at a given point in time.

Lower level measurement weighting coefficients are typically greater than higher level coefficients since there are a fewer system elements variables associated with the lower level measurement thereby increasing measurement confidence.

Tables A B C D E and F describe the features benefits of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology as described in .

The key features and benefits of the requirement compliance and resource management methodology are listed below 

Requirement Processing Module A Feature Specification author book boss assignments. Requirement Processing Module A Benefit Provides ability to assign personnel with read write access to specifications and requirements.

Compliance Legal Module B Feature Import legal regularity requirements i.e. HIPPA . Compliance Legal Module B Benefit Single source for legal regulatory requirement in a true relational database.

Requirement Input Module C Feature 1 Import customer requirements from MS Word MS Excel pdf into database. Requirement Input Module C Benefit 1 Seamless import allows users to consolidate requirements into single true relational database. Requirement Input Module C Feature 2 Incorporates non textual objects and images into database. Requirement Input Module C Benefit 2 Allows non textual objects to be associated with requirements objects.

Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 1 TPM risk critical issue tracking and control. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefits 1 Insightful reporting capability provides visibility to critical issues and unresolved actions enabling efficient resource allocation. Specifications and Matrices Module D Features 2 Overall project completion status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefits 2 Simple dashboard metrics which provide completion status at all levels of integration up to final end item delivery. Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 3 Open action status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefit 3 Quick and easy access to program action items and completion status. Specifications and Matrices Module D Feature 4 Program usage statistics. Specifications and Matrices Module D Benefit 4 Real time metrics which display iris user statistics such as user frequency and duration.

Resource Allocation Module E Feature 1 Hardware software resource management. Resource Allocation Module E Benefit 1 Allows for quick and easy reservation of hardware software components needed to perform verification activities in specific facilities locations. Flags if there is a scheduling conflict in hardware software resource allocation. Provides resource time and cost for each event. Resource Allocation Module E Feature 2 Personnel resource management. Resource Allocation Module E Benefit 2 Allows for quick and easy reservation of personnel and subject matter experts needed to perform verification activities in specific facilities locations. Flags if there is a scheduling conflict in hardware software resource allocation. Provides resource time and cost for each event.

Event Verification Module F Feature 1 Allocation of requirements to verification events. Event Verification Module F Benefit 1 Provides real time visibility to verification strategies configuration and objectives thereby providing programs the ability to leverage verification activities in support of agile acquisition initiatives. Enables collaboration ensuring early identification of risks. Event Verification Module F Feature 2 Customizable verification event coordination matrix. Event Verification Module F Benefit 2 Customizable event coordination matrix ECM generator which allows users to organize and group events by end item deliverables and engineering disciplines. Provides ability for users to see if they can move requirements to another event and the event in question may also eliminated thereby streamlining verification activities. Event Verification Module F Feature 3 Event resource management. Event Verification Module F Benefit 3 Tightly couples required verification event resources to integrated schedules to better coordinate resources. Event Verification Module F Feature 4 Event configuration control and change history. Event Verification Module F Benefit 4 Ensures verification baseline is under strict configuration control. Maintains a detailed history of all changes against specific verification activities. Event Verification Module F Feature 5 Traceability from requirements to compliance data artifacts. Event Verification Module F Benefit 5 Provides closed loop automated hyperlinks which provide quick access to requirements compliance data and related artifacts. Event Verification Module F Feature 6 Verification activity linkage to MS project schedules. Event Verification Module F Benefit 6 Tightly couples verification activities with program milestones to ensure timely end item delivery. Event Verification Module F Feature 7 Electronic signature event planning and completion . Event Verification Module F Benefit 7 Electronic signature capability dramatically reduces test activity approval cycle. Event Verification Module F Feature 8 Enterprise integration with external data sources. Event Verification Module F Benefit 8 Allows for correlation of data elements across the enterprise dramatically improving collaboration increasing work force efficiency and reducing cost.

Graphical User Interface Module A Feature 1 Simple and intuitive GUI user interface. Graphical User Interface Module A Benefit 1 Simple intuitive interface provides powerful capabilities for importing linking analyzing reporting and managing requirements including traceability to associated project verification events and team assignments. Requires minimal user training. Graphical User Interface Module A Feature 2 Ready for use upon installation. Graphical User Interface Module A Benefit 2 No custom scripting required results in lower implementation cost faster usage. May be tailored to support specific project processes.

Question Answer Format For Requirement Input Module C Feature 1 Project setup question and answer. Question Answer Format For Requirement Input Module C Benefit 1 Step by step question and answer that allows user to quickly and easily set up a new project.

Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Feature 1 Verification completion decision fuzzy logic . Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Benefit 1 Enables program decision makers to assess when verification is good enough. Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Feature 2 Requirement goodness estimation fuzzy logic . Fuzzy Logic Algorithm Module F Benefit 2 Evaluates requirement goodness thereby reducing requirement rework and verification resource waste.

Statistical Algorithm Module F Feature 1 Statistics variability. Statistical Algorithm Module F Benefit 1 Provides statistical estimating capability for empirical results that require statistical modeling to assess performance variability.

Weighting Logic Algorithm Module F Feature 1 TPM calculator weighting logic . Weighting Logic Algorithm Module F Benefit 1 Allows program to calculate value of TPM throughout integration process.

In the development of the Event Coordination Sheets ECS starts with the baseline specifications. In section 4.0 of system specifications verification methods are assigned to each requirement in accordance with applicable standards. Requirements are then mapped into verification events based on the event objectives. One approach to defining verification events and determining which requirements should be mapped into specific verification events is to develop a spreadsheet similar to that shown in . TPMs and Mission Critical requirements are then identified. A balanced VSS approach will carefully allocate requirements into appropriate venues such that redundant verification or double booking is minimized.

In once requirements have been allocated into verification venues the ECS can now be created using the instructions below 

Description A concise statement delineating the verification to be performed. If the verification has more than one sequence break the sequence out here. Describe relationships among verification methods e.g. where test output will be used to perform an analysis . If verification activities have been completed type Refer to referenced report s . If N A provide a brief explanation.

Objectives Provide a concise overview of verification activity objectives. If the verification activity is conducted in several sequences objectives may be written for each sequence provided they address the requirements

Success Criteria Provide a brief description of verification activity pass fail criteria. This must include the specific data and the results of any analyses that may be required to interpret the data and conclude whether or not the requirement has been successfully verified.

Requirements Include requirement paragraph and or requirement ID. Provide a comprehensive list of all the requirements that have been allocated to a given verification activity.

Timeline Schedule Define the expected duration of the verification activity relative to program milestones. Includes the expected duration of the entire verification activity including verification activity preparation execution data acquisition and data post processing and data analysis.

Constraints Identify limitations on the extent of the verification activity conducted. Identify any special conditions on the test setup test article environmental conditions etc.

Pre Test Requirements Identify any special test equipment or resources. Reference report number and title only. Applies only if verification procedure has been completed and report written. If N A provide a brief explanation.

Configuration Identify the hardware or software configuration for use during this verification procedure s .

Data Acquisition Requirements List verification procedure data requirements and products. Reference report number and title only. Applies only if verification procedure has been completed and report written. .

Evidence of Closure Identify the document title and number of the referenced report that contains the data which verifies that this these requirement s have been met. Attach referenced material to verification event form.

Each event will be coordinated using the requirement compliance and resource management methodology dynamic schedule linking capability which synchronizes events with the Integrated Master Schedule as shown in .

In step one can create a user account in step one can assign an access to a user and in step one can assign a level of access to the user.

In step the user can create a requirement specification tree in step the user can name a requirement specification document in step the user can describe the requirement specification document in step the user can create the requirement specification document version number in step the user can assign an access to other users regarding the requirement specification document with a specific version in step the user can create the requirement specification document directly or otherwise in step the user can import the requirement specification document utilizing MS Excel program. In step if the imported requirement specification document is OK then the user can stop in step otherwise the user can review the integrity of the imported requirement specification document in step .

In step the user can define a requirement of importing parent child relationship. In step the user can create the requirement of parent child relationship directly and if this direct creation of the requirement of parent child relationship is successful then the user can stop in step otherwise in step the user can import the parent child relationship template by utilizing MS Excel program in step the user can review the integrity of the imported parent child relationship template. In step the user can import a requirement of parent child relationship in step the user can verify the integrity of the imported requirement of parent child relationship utilizing a parent child flow down report. In step if the imported requirement of parent child relationship is OK then the user can stop in step otherwise the user can reiterate to step .

In step the user can define a requirement category. In step the user can create a requirement category directly. If the direct creation of the requirement category is successful then the user can stop in step otherwise in step the user can import a requirement category template utilizing MS Excel program. In step the user can review the integrity of the imported requirement category template in step the user can import a requirement category in step the user can verify the integrity of the imported requirement category utilizing category filters. In step if the imported requirement category is OK then the user can stop in step otherwise the user can reiterate to step .

In step the user can define a requirement verification event within a project setup. In step the user can create a requirement verification event directly. If the direct creation of requirement verification event is successful then the user can stop in step otherwise in step the user can import a requirement verification event template utilizing MS Excel program. In step the user can review the integrity of the imported requirement verification event template in step the user can import a requirement verification event in step the user can verify the integrity of the imported requirement verification event utilizing a verification event report in step if the imported requirement verification event is OK then the user can stop in step otherwise the user can reiterate to step .

In step the user can ask a question if there are required resources to execute the event if the answer is no then the user can stop in step . However if the answer to the above question is yes then the user can proceed to step .

In step the user can ask a question if there are required software to execute the event if the answer is no then the user can proceed to step . However if the answer to the above question is yes then the user can proceed to step .

In step the user can input site location where software will be used. In step the user can input lab facility within the site location where the software will be used. In step the user can input required software component name and version. In step the user can input software start date and end date.

If the answer to the question is there specific hardware to execute the event in step is yes then the user can proceed to step otherwise the user can stop at . In step the user can input site location where hardware will be used. In step the user can input lab facility within the site location where the hardware will be used. In step the user can input required hardware component name and version. In step the user can input hardware start date and end date.

In the above disclosed specifications has been used to indicate or . Any example in the above disclosed specifications is by way of an example and not by way of any limitation. All the terms in the above disclosed specifications have a plain meaning for a person ordinary skilled in the art subject matter. The above disclosed specifications are the preferred embodiments of the present invention. However they are not intended to be limiting only to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and or modifications are possible within the scope of the present invention.

