---

title: Method for proximity determination between mobile peers while maintaining privacy
abstract: This disclosure describes systems, methods, and apparatus for determining proximity between networked devices without requiring those devices to share location information either because of privacy or because such information cannot be obtained. To do this, access points for a plurality of networked devices are compared, and those devices detecting, or detected by, the same access points are deemed proximal to each other. Software, or features of software, can be initiated on those networked devices that are proximal to other networked devices and the proximal networked devices can be given information enabling them to identify and communicate with each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08769003&OS=08769003&RS=08769003
owner: Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc.
number: 08769003
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
The present disclosure relates generally to networked devices. In particular but not by way of limitation the present disclosure relates to systems methods and apparatuses for determining a proximity between networked devices.

Numerous software applications e.g. peer to peer applications seek to initiate or take action when two wireless mobile devices e.g. smartphones are proximal to each other i.e. within a preset distance . For instance an online social game e.g. FARMVILLE can enable a player to use new powers when at least 3 friends or followers e.g. FACEBOOK friends or followers on TWITTER are simultaneously within a twenty foot radius of the player. Marketing applications may present advertisements or promotions to passersby of brick and mortar store. A dating application e.g. SKOUT and ARE YOU INTERESTED may enable users to view profiles of and communicate with other users who are nearby e.g. in the same baseball stadium . Traditionally proximity between communication devices has been determined by comparing locations of various devices where the locations are provided by the communication devices e.g. via GPS .

However privacy concerns and reception issues may make it undesirable or difficult to share or even know location information. Often users do not wish to share location information and even if they do there are many instances where location information may not be known e.g. limited GPS reception inside buildings or may be too slow to acquire e.g. a GPS signal can sometimes take a number of seconds or even minutes to acquire .

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

Some embodiments of the disclosure may be characterized as a method of determining networked device proximity without sharing location information. The method can include receiving at a server system from the first and second networked devices identifications of an access point that both the first and second networked devices detect. The method can further include determining at a proximity component of the server system for comparing the received identifications that each of the first and second networked devices detect the access point. The method can also transmit to at least one of the first or second networked devices at the server system a proximity indicator indicating that the first and second networked devices are proximal.

Other embodiments of the disclosure may also be characterized as a server system including a server system and a proximity component. The server system configured to receive from a first and second networked devices identifications of an access point that both the first and second networked devices detect. The server system can be further configured to transmit a proximity indicator to at least one of the first or second networked devices where the proximity indicator indicates that the first and second networked devices are proximal. The proximity component can be configured to compare the received identifications and determined that each of the first and second networked devices detect the access point.

Other embodiments of the disclosure can be characterized as a networked device comprising means for accomplishing the following identifying one or more other networked devices detected by the networked device transmitting to a server system identification of the one or more other networked devices detected by the networked device and receiving an identification of a proximal networked device from the server system where the proximal networked device detects one or more of the one or more other networked devices and is therefore proximal to the networked device.

Further embodiments of the disclosure can be characterized as a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium encoded with processor readable instructions to perform a method for determining proximity between at least first and second mobile devices without knowledge of their location. The method can include receiving at a server system from the first and second networked devices identifications of an access point that both the first and second networked devices detect. Additionally the method can include determining at a proximity component of the server system for comparing the received identifications that each of the first and second networked devices detect the access point. The method can also include transmitting to at least one of the first or second networked devices at the server system a proximity indicator indicating that the first and second networked devices are proximal.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

The word access point as used herein means any device that communicates with another device. WIFI routers LAN routers BLUETOOTH access points BLUETOOTH enabled devices e.g. hand free headsets speakers glasses music players smartphones tablet computers laptop computer netbooks ultrabooks cellular access points and default gateways are some non limiting examples of access points. Access points can provide access to a network such as a LAN cellular network or the Internet but are not required to provide access to a network. In some cases they are merely access points to their own internal logic and functions e.g. a BLUETOOTH hands free headset .

For the purposes of this disclosure a networked device can include mobile devices communication devices wireless devices and wired devices all configured to communicate with a network or with at least one other networked device. A networked device need not be primarily configured for communication but rather merely able to communicate with other networked devices. While this disclosure often uses communication devices e.g. smartphones and cellular phones in the examples and illustrations one of skill in the art will recognize that such descriptions are equally applicable to all types of networked devices and that the embodiments herein disclosed are not limited to communication devices.

Because of the aforementioned privacy and reception challenges there is a need for systems methods and apparatus that can determine proximity between networked devices without extracting or accessing location information from the networked devices. This need can be met by the systems methods and apparatus of the present disclosure. In particular a list of access points that two or more networked devices are within range of can be analyzed to identify those networked devices that are within range of the same access points. Those networked devices can then be notified of their proximity to each other and software can be initiated on the networked device or features of software can be initiated based on the proximity. Alternatively a server based application can initiate software or features of software based on the proximity.

The communication devices can each include at least some or all of the components only illustrated for the first communication device . The components can include a proximity component a data store a network interface and a plurality of applications or applications . . . e.g. games social media games massive multiplayer online games social networking applications dating software marketing applications or communication applications to name a few non limiting examples . The components can be interconnected in any of a variety of fashions well known to those of skill in the art. The depiction of the components is logical only e.g. the proximity component could be combined with one of the applications . . . and is not intended to be an actual hardware or architecture diagram. As discussed further herein each of the components may be further separated into constituent components or the components may be integrated to such an extent that each of the components may not be separately recognizable in actual implementation. For example the depicted division of the proximity component and applications . . . into constituent components is exemplary only to facilitate a description of the functions that the proximity component has in the exemplary embodiment. In practice the functions of the proximity component and one or more of the applications . . . could be carried out via a single application for example. Also in actual implementation there may be separate hardware firmware and or software components that do not exactly correspond to the functional division described with reference to . Other components such as the data store and the network interface can also have combined functionality with each other or with others of the components .

Each communication device can scan or monitor for access points e.g. a WIFI router or cellular tower and store an identifier of any detected access points. For instance the first and second communication devices and can monitor wireless signals and determine that they are within range of access point as determined by the proximity component of either communication device . The proximity component can obtain an identifier of the access point e.g. a BSS ID or SSID and optionally store the identifier in the data store . Each of the first and second communication devices therefore has a list of nearby or detected access points where the term nearby varies depending on a variety of factors such as access point signal strength and objects or environmental effects that diminish the signal range. However roughly speaking if an access point is detected by a device then it is nearby. In if the first and second communication devices can detect the access point then they are within twice the maximum range of the access point . In some embodiments the access points can scan for networked devices and store identifiers of proximal networked devices.

The proximity component can pass the identifiers via a network interface to a server system via the access point and the network . The server system can then compare the identifiers provided by each of the communication devices and determine if the two communication devices are within range to at least one common access point. In the illustrated embodiment the server system receives identifiers from both communication devices identifying one or more access points including the access point . Since the access point is commonly detected by both communication devices the server system considers these communication devices proximal within twice a maximum range of the common access point . If more than one access point is common to both communication devices then the communication devices can be deemed even closer to each other. While this method only provides limited accuracy the rough proximity determinations are sufficient for many purposes where privacy is an issue or location information is difficult to obtain.

Once the server system determines that both communication devices are proximal the server system can initiate an action on the proximal communication devices . A variety of actions are envisioned such as initiation of an application or feature of an application and initiation of communication between the communication devices to name two non limiting examples. For instance the server system may pass instructions to each communication device via the network interface telling the proximity component to initiate one of a plurality of applications . . . on each communication device . As another example users of a dating application may be allowed to instant message each other when they are deemed proximal to each other for instance when their smartphones are detecting at least one same or common access point.

The server system may also pass an identification to the proximity component that the proximity component can use to initiate communication between the two communication devices or to initiate one of the applications . . . directed to communicating with the other communication device. The server system may also provide an identification to the communication devices notifying them of other communication devices that are proximal. The instructions or an identification can be stored in the data store .

In some embodiments the server system will only consider the communication devices proximal when they identify at least one common access point and they are either running or are installed with a certain common application . . . 

While this system does not provide an exact determination of proximity between communication devices it can provide a maximum distance that can separate the two communication devices which is sufficient for many situations. For instance where the access point is a BLUETOOTH enabled device or access point the two communication devices are probably within a few dozen feet of each other since many BLUETOOTH enabled devices and access points have limited range. If the access point uses WIFI then the proximity is likely less than a couple hundred feet. In the case of a cellular access point the proximity could be much larger e.g. miles but still within some useful radius.

In some embodiments even coarser proximity determinations can be made where communication devices share a common subnet or default gateway and identification of a common subnet or default gateway can indicate a proximity between communication devices . For instance a default gateway can cover entire buildings or even whole commercial complexes. However even such coarse proximity determinations can be highly valuable where there is a lack of location information or an inability to share location information.

Additionally many applications . . . look for a proximity between networked devices and thus merely knowing a maximum proximity between the communication devices can be sufficient to enable the proximity based functionality of those applications.

While has been described such that an end result of proximity between the communication devices is an initiation of one of the applications . . . or initiation of a feature of one of these applications . . . in some cases the proximity component effectuates a function in response to close proximity between the communication devices .

The proximity component the network interface the data store and the applications . . . can be implemented as software hardware firmware or a combination of the above. For instance the proximity component can be implemented as an application running on one or more processors of the communication devices and accessing a memory of the communication devices . Alternatively the proximity component can be embodied in an ASIC. These are just two examples showing the plethora of embodiments in which the proximity component and others of the components can be implemented.

The proximity component can operate in the background e.g. a service or agent or can be an active operation. In other embodiments the proximity component can be user activated. In some embodiments the proximity component is a thin application e.g. a small piece of code that requires little device resources to operate. The proximity component may operate in the application or service layer of the software stack. In some instances the functionality of the proximity component can be embodied by one or more operations of the method described with reference to .

In practice networked devices are often within range of multiple access points. For instance as illustrated in a first communication device is within range of two access points a first wireless access point WAP and a second WAP . A second communication device is within range of three access points the second WAP a third WAP and a fourth WAP . The common access point is the second WAP . Since the communication devices can both detect the second WAP they are proximal and this proximity indicates that a proximity between them is no greater than twice a maximum range of the second WAP .

The functionality described with reference to can be carried out via one or more of components of the communication devices one or more of components of a server system comprising one or more local or remotely distributed servers or these functions can be distributed between the components and the components . The components can include a proximity component a network interface a data store and a plurality of applications . . . e.g. games social media games massive multiplayer online games social networking applications dating software marketing applications or communication applications to name a few non limiting examples . The components can include a proximity component a network interface and a data store .

In one embodiment the components of the server system can determine whether the first and second communication devices are proximal. Alternatively or in addition to determining proximity the components can determine whether the first and second communication devices are within the proximity from each other. In another embodiment the proximity component of the first communication device can determine whether the first and second communication devices are proximal. In some cases the proximity component can also determine the proximity of the first to the second communication devices .

The depiction of the components and is logical only and is not intended to be an actual hardware diagram. As discussed further herein each component of the components and may be further separated into constituent components or the components and may be integrated to such an extent that each of the components and may not be separately recognizable in actual implementation. The components and can further operate as isolated hardware software and or firmware components or as one or more unified hardware software and or firmware components. For instance the proximity component or could be a processor including an on chip data store or in the form of cache. On the other hand the proximity component or could be a software module operating on a processor where the software module accesses and stores information in a data store or . Many other variations are also possible. For instance in one embodiment the proximity component can perform various logic and control functions such as analyzing and determining proximity between networked devices. In such an embodiment the proximity component can store identifications of detected access points provide them to the server system which can be a remote server system receive indicators from the server system indicating other proximal networked devices and store these indicators in the data store . Also in actual implementation there may be separate hardware firmware and or software components that do not exactly correspond to the functional division described with reference to .

The first second third and fourth WAPs which for simplicity can be referred to as a WAP system can be in communication with the server system via the network e.g. the Internet a cellular network combined with the Internet a cellular network or a LAN to name a few non limiting examples and via a network interface of the server system . In particular the WAP system can provide the server system with information describing the networked devices that are in communication with or have detected access points and information describing the access points. For instance in the illustrated embodiment the WAP system can indicate to the server system via the network interface that the first communication device is detecting the first and second WAPs and that the second communication device is detecting the second third and fourth WAPs . This data can be stored in a data store of the server system .

In an alternative embodiment each communication device can pass identifiers of detected access points or lists of detected access points to the server system . These identifiers can be stored in the data store . WIFI access points can be identified by BSS ID and or SSID. The BSS ID is an address assigned to the hardware acting as the access point while the SSID is an address assigned to a logical aspect of the access point. The BSS ID can be a MAC address in one embodiment. The BSS ID can be a preferred form of access point identification because each BSS ID is a globally unique value.

The communication devices can pass these identifiers to the server system via the network and in particular via various means of transmission from a networked device e.g. a network interface a network port an antenna a network connection etc. . In another embodiment the WAP system provides identifications of communication devices that are within range of an access point as well as identifications of the corresponding access points while the communication devices also pass identifications of the access points that they are within range of to the server system .

The communication devices can also store the identifiers and lists in a data store of each communication device . The proximity component e.g. a processor or other controller or logic module or control application can manage the data store . The server system can also store the identifiers and lists in a data store of the server system . The proximity component of the server can manage the data store .

Once the server system has received information describing what networked devices are detecting what access points the proximity component of the server system can determine which networked devices are detecting the same access points. The proximity component can then categorize or group those networked devices that are proximal to each other detecting the same access points .

The server system can return information describing these groups to the communication devices where the proximity component in each communication device can use this information to initiate software applications e.g. applications . . . that reside on the communication devices or features of these software applications. The proximity component in each communication device can also use this information to initiate any other process application or service. In other embodiments the proximity component of the server system can initiate software applications features of software applications processes or services on the one or more communication devices . Software applications may include games social media games massive multiplayer online games social networking applications social media applications dating software marketing applications or communication applications to name a few non limiting examples.

The proximity component of the server system can also use the information describing the groups to initiate a software application or service or process such as one of the applications . . . or a feature of a software application. The software application may be a web based or device based application that automatically initiates on the first and second communication devices when they are proximal to each other or may prompt the users of the first and second communication devices to allow the software to initiate. A feature of a software application may include opening of a new level within a game or the opening of an instant messaging user interface as part of a running program to name two non limiting examples. For instance where a user is browsing FACEBOOK or reading TWEETS and a friend or follower comes within 100 feet or any proximity set by the application FACEBOOK or TWITTER may open an instant messaging dialogue box that both users can use to communicate with each other. Or a FACEBOOK user may see a list of friends with icons next to each friend indicating whether or not that friend is nearby or proximal. Such proximity indications can also indicate a rough distance. For instance a black dot next to a friend s name or profile picture can indicate that they are not proximal a red dot may indicate that they are within the same city a green dot may indicate that they are within the same building and a blinking green dot may indicate that they are within the same room. These examples are merely for illustration and do not limit the scope of possible applications that can be embodied by the applications . . . 

In one embodiment the proximity component will not take action e.g. initiating a program initiate a feature of a program etc. unless there is proximity between two networked devices and both networked devices include a certain program feature of a program process or service. For instance the first and second communication devices may be proximal but if only a first communication device has a certain social gaming application installed that requests proximity between networked devices to initiate then the proximity component or will not initiate the gaming application. Only where both communication devices have the gaming application and are proximal will the gaming application run or initiate a feature of the application. In some cases the proximity determination may not even be made unless at least two networked devices have a specified application or a specified application is running on both networked devices. In other words in some embodiments the proximity approximation may only be performed amongst networked devices that have or are running a specified application process or service.

In a particular embodiment the proximity component can be aware that the first communication device is looking for another networked device having a particular service. The proximity component may then look at all networked devices that are proximal to the first communication device and see if this service is running on any proximal networked devices. If so then action can be taken relative to these two networked devices e.g. initiation of a common process . In some embodiments the proximity component may look for other common resources besides applications services and processes. For instance the proximity component may look for common identifiers between proximal networked devices where an identifier can identify an application process or service of a networked device.

In cases where a networked device detects different types of access points e.g. cellular and WIFI the proximity component of the server system or the proximity component of the communication device or can use an algorithm or hierarchy to preferentially use some types of access points over others. For instance where two cellular and two WIFI access points are all detected by the communication devices the cellular access points may be ignored or given a lesser weight when determining proximity. This is because WIFI access points are generally shorter ranged than cellular access points and thus generally provide more accurate proximity approximations.

Along these lines networks or access point types can be preferred in the following order BLUETOOTH WIFI e.g. BSS ID cellular subnet and default gateway. In other words access point types can be preferred in an order of range from shortest to longest. For instance two networked devices may access the same two access points where one access point operates on WIFI and the other is a subnet. Because of a preference for the WIFI access point the fact that the networked devices both detect the same subnet access point may be ignored and instead the proximity determination may be made solely with the WIFI access point.

A weighted average can also be used to determine proximity when different types of access points are used. In some embodiments proximity can be determined based on different access point types and then a weighted average as determined based on the different access point types can be determined. Greater weight can be given to preferred access point types in the following order BLUETOOTH WIFI e.g. BSS ID cellular subnet and default gateway. Alternatively rather than giving lower weight to less preferred access point types they can be excluded from the proximity determination. Weights can be based on observed access point signal strength channel noise and transmission power required to name a few non limiting examples.

In some embodiments the access point protocol of a given type of access point may be considered e.g. 802.11g versus 802.11n by the proximity component or the proximity components . Since some networked devices or access points may not be backwards compatible this consideration can avoid false negatives where one networked device can communicate with an access point but another cannot merely because one networked device uses an older access point protocol. For instance where a first communication device detects two access points via 802.11n and a second communication device detects the same access points but only operates according to 802.11g and the access points are incapable of operating on 802.11g the second communication device will not appear to be close to the first communication device since the second communication device will be unable to communicate with the access points. However if both communication devices make the server system aware of their WIFI protocols and the server system is also aware of the access point protocols then the server system can decide that access points operating on 802.11n should not be used in comparisons because this could result in false negatives. Instead only access points able to operate on 802.11g and older protocols will be used in comparisons to determine proximity. This is just one example of excluding an access point due to access point protocol compatibility. In another embodiment proximity may be determined separately for different access point protocols e.g. one determination for 802.11g and one for 802.11n .

A proximity between the two communication devices if they share a common access point is twice the maximum range of the common access point e.g. where the two communication devices are arranged on opposite sides of the access point and the access point is equidistant from both communication devices . However in most cases the communication devices will not be exactly opposite from each other with the access point bisecting the proximity between them and therefore the proximity will typically be less than twice a maximum range of the access point.

The proximity will further be shortened by atmospheric and structural elements that reduce the range of an access point. For instance where the second WAP resides within a building with cinderblock walls the range of the second WAP will be greatly reduced and thus the proximity is likely to be less than if the second WAP were located in an open park.

Along these lines in an embodiment the location of an access point can be used to enhance an accuracy of the proximity determination e.g. knowledge of the proximity . For instance where it is known that the second WAP is inside a building a decrease in its maximum range can be approximated and used to determine the proximity . Similarly the access point range can be approximated as a function of direction e.g. access point range can be described by vectors . In other words one can approximate a range profile for a access point that takes into account directional differences in an access point s range. For instance it may be known that a concrete wall is to the North of an access point and open space extends beyond the range of the WAP to the South. In this case the maximum range of the access point to the North can be estimated to be less than that to the South. Also electromagnetic transmission modeling can be used to estimate a maximum range based on the materials and structure that the access point signal must travel through in a given direction. At the same time because different directions can lead to decreased access point range the proximity may be more accurately approximated if one of the communication devices is located in such a direction relative to the access point.

The range of access points and thus the accuracy of the proximity approximation depends on the access point type and protocol within an access point type. For instance different WIFI routers have different ranges as do different BLUETOOTH devices. As another example WIFI protocol 802.11n typically has a longer range than 802.11g. As such a BLUTOOTH access point will provide a more accurate approximation of proximity than a cellular access point and 802.11g will typically provide a more accurate proximity approximation than 802.11n for instance.

Further position rather than mere proximity may also be determined where the location of one or more access points is known. For instance in a communication device is within range of two nearby access points a first WAP and a second WAP . The maximum theoretical range of the first WAP is a range . The maximum theoretical range of the second WAP is a range . If the locations of the first and second WAPs are known then the position of the communication device must be within the area where the range of the first WAP and the range of the second WAP overlap. When three or more access points are used the area can be even smaller and thus knowledge of the communication device position can be even more accurate. Even if the position of only a single access point is known if that access point is detected by the communication device then the communication device has to be within a maximum range of the access point.

Combining the method illustrated in and a directionally dependent range can produce further advantages. illustrates a communication device a first WAP a second WAP and a concrete wall separating the first WAP from the communication device . The locations of the first and second WAPs and the concrete wall are known. A directionally variant range can be modeled for the first WAP based on its surroundings including the concrete wall . The directionally variant range is likely to be diminished by the concrete wall in a directionally dependent fashion. Again the area representing the overlap between the directionally variant range of the first WAP and the range of the second WAP gives the area in which the location of the communication device is likely to be.

This same method can be expanded to include modeling of walls objects atmospheric effects landscape features and dynamic features e.g. elevators large masses of walking people or vehicles to name a few . Modeling can be performed in both two and three dimensions although here only a two dimensional example is illustrated.

Similarly signal strength can be used to improve the accuracy of a proximity or distance determination. The proximity component in each communication device can measure signal strength of detected access points and provide this to the server system . Alternatively the first second third and fourth WAPs can measure the strength of the communication device signals and provide this to the server system . Either way the signal strength can then be used to approximate a distance between each of the first and second communication devices and each of the first second third and fourth WAPs . Consequently locations of the communication devices are more accurately known and thus also the proximity. The use of signal strength can be used alone or in combination with knowledge of access point locations in order to more accurately determine the proximity.

In one embodiment distance from an access point can be determined from time stamp information. A time stamp can be attached to packets that are passed between an access point and a networked device and the time stamp can be compared to a time when those packets are received. The difference may be used to calculate a distance between an access point and a networked device based on a known speed of transmitted waves and atmospheric effects on propagation speed.

Most signals from the communication devices eventually pass through a default gateway en route to the Internet. Default gateways typically take the form of a router and act as gatekeepers to the Internet for one or more networked devices within a local geographic area e.g. a house building or commercial complex . Thus proximity can be based on which communication devices commonly detect the same default gateway.

The second default gateway can communicate with the second communication device and also with a third communication device both of which are within the second default gateway s range. The second communication device is thus able to access the network via either the first or second default gateway .

As seen the first default gateway communicates via wired or wireless means with the first and second WAPs . In this particular configuration it does not directly communicate with the communication devices . The second default gateway on the other hand is a default gateway and an access point since it directly communicates with both the second and third communication devices and the network . Default gateways can thus either communicate directly with networked devices e.g. and or can communicate directly with wireless routers or access points e.g. and or and or both.

When determining proximity between communication devices common access points can be a basis for a first determination. The first and second communication devices can both access the first and second WAPs while the third communication device can only access the second default gateway also an access point . Therefore the first and second communication devices are likely closer together since they share one more common access point than do the second and third communication devices . The first communication device is probably even further from the third communication device since these two networked devices do not share any common access points.

At the same time the first and second default gateways can be used to determine proximity. The first and second communication devices access the network via the first default gateway while the second and third communication devices access the network via the second default gateway . So the first and second communication devices are likely proximal since they share the first default gateway. Similarly the second and third communication devices are likely close to each other since they share the second default gateway . Admittedly since default gateways typically cover a larger geographical area than access points the default gateways do not provide as accurate a determination of proximity between networked devices as do the access points.

While proximity determinations have been described that use either commonly accessible access points or commonly accessible default gateways in other embodiments both commonly accessible access points and commonly accessible default gateways can be used.

A variety of applications e.g. . . . . . . can make use of the proximity information derived via the system illustrated in . New levels characters or abilities can be unlocked in games when certain other users or certain numbers of other users are proximate to a first user. Social networking applications e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER LINKEDIN TAGGED MEETUP BADOO can enable communications e.g. instant messaging or access to profiles of other users when they come within a preset distance. Other programs can bring videos posts and photos to the forefront of a user s GUI where priority is given to content created by persons proximal to the user e.g. COLOR . Promotions and ads can be displayed on a user s networked device when he she comes within a preset distance of a brick and mortar store or an event or a concession stand. These are just a few of the plethora of applications that can make use of the proximity information derived via the system illustrated in .

In one embodiment the proximity component or the proximity component can initiate such programs or a feature of said programs when the first and second communication devices are proximal and the proximity is less than or equal to a threshold or preset proximity. So the first and second communication devices could detect the same access point and thus be proximal and yet the program may not initiate because the communication devices are not necessarily within the threshold proximity required by the program. For instance two networked devices may be proximal in the sense that they both detect the same cellular access point yet a communication program on both networked devices may only initiate when the two networked devices are within 100 feet of each other. The cellular access point may have a maximum range of three miles and thus mere proximity as determined by common detection of the same cellular access point does not necessarily mean that the first and second communication devices are within 100 feet of each other. If on the other hand the first and second communication devices are both detecting the same BLUETOOTH access point or perhaps a WIFI access point with a range less than 50 feet then there is assurance that the first and second communication devices were within 100 feet of each other and thus the communication program can initiate.

A server system not illustrated can determine that the first and second communication devices both detect the second and third WAPs . The first communication device and a third communication device commonly detect a first WAP . Thus a proximity between the first and second communication devices is likely shorter than a proximity between the first communication device and the third communication device . Along these same lines if the first and second communication devices share three common access points and the first and third communication devices only share a single access point then there is an even greater probability that the first and second communication devices are closer than the first and third communication devices . In other words the greater the number of common access points detected by two networked devices the closer the proximity between those networked devices.

In one embodiment the following algorithm can be used to approximate a proximity or between two networked devices F 1 c n where the algorithm attempts to minimize a cost function F and where c is a number of access points common to first and second networked devices and n is a total number of access points seen by either the first or second networked device. The lower the cost function F the greater the proximity. For instance where the first networked device sees two access points and the second networked device sees three access points and one of the access points is commonly detected by both networked devices F 1 1 4 0.75. A lower cost function and thus greater proximity would exist where the first and second networked devices had two common access points e.g. F 1 2 4 0.5 .

In some embodiments rather than just counting a number of access points detected by each networked device the server system not illustrated can also assign each access point a weight. Weights can be based on observed access point signal strength channel noise transmission protocol and or transmission power required to name a few non limiting examples.

This disclosure has focused on networked devices detecting access points but in some embodiments proximity can be based on detection of other networked devices where networked devices include communication devices e.g. smartphones cellular phones tablet computers laptop computers PDAs netbooks and ultrabooks to name a few and access points e.g. WIFI router LAN router BLUETOOTH Internet access point cell of a cellular network default gateway and subnet to name a few . For instance where a first and second networked device can detect a third networked device the first and second networked devices can be considered proximal.

Although this disclosure has focused on wireless networked devices such as smartphones tablet computers and cellular phones the scope of the disclosure is not limited to wireless networked devices and includes any networked device whether wired or wireless e.g. a desktop computer networked via an Ethernet cable . In other words rather than wirelessly detecting a network via an access point a networked device can also detect a network via a wired access point such as a router having an Ethernet port. When any two or more networked devices detect the same access point via either wired or wireless means those two or more networked devices can be considered proximal.

Similarly the access points need not be wireless and can therefore be implemented as other types of access points such as wired access points e.g. a router with an Ethernet port or networked devices without a network connection e.g. a BLUETOOTH hands free headset or a ZIGBEE home security control system . For instance and turning back to the server system could look at commonly detected access points as well as commonly detected BLUETOOTH enabled devices that are within range of the first and second communication devices in order to determine proximity. Even though the BLUETOOTH enabled device s may not have a network connection the mere fact that both the first and second communication devices are within range of the BLUETOOTH enabled device s indicates that the first and second communication devices are proximal to each other.

In one instance the systems methods and apparatus herein disclosed can operate as long as at least one access point has a network connection e.g. so that the first and second communication devices can upload lists of identified access points to the server system . In some embodiments one or more of the aforementioned access points can be replaced by a wired local area network LAN access point such as the Ethernet previously described.

The communication devices can transmit an identifier of the access points to which they detect to the network and to a server system . The server system can then compare the identifiers provided by the first and second communication devices and determine if there are any access points commonly detected by both communication devices .

Any BLUETOOTH enabled device that can communicate with the network can also identify itself to the server system and provide a listing of networked devices that are detected by the BLUETOOTH enabled device. As an example BLUETOOTH access point can provide the server system with a list of networked devices including identification of the first and second communication devices . Thus identification of which networked devices can detect a BLUETOOTH access point can be provided from a networked device or identification of which BLUETOOTH access points can detect a networked device can be provided from a BLUETOOTH access point or a combination of these.

As discussed previously a combination of access point types can be used to determine proximity. Here the first communication device can detect the BLUETOOTH headset and the BLUETOOTH access point 2 access points . The second communication device can detect the BLUETOOTH access point the BLUETOOTH enabled tablet computer and a WAP 3 access points . The commonly detectible access point is the BLUETOOTH access point .

In the various above mentioned embodiments proximity components e.g. and have been referenced as operating in a server system e.g. or in a communication device e.g. . However in some embodiments both proximity components can simultaneously operate and their operation can be coordinated.

The method then selects via a proximity component of the server system e.g. proximity component at least two networked devices e.g. the first and second communication devices or from a plurality of networked devices that provided identifications of access points in a select devices operation .

The method then optionally determines if both networked devices have a common application feature of an application running process or service or an identifier. For instance the method may determine if both networked devices have a common feature of an application that uses or requests proximity e.g. a dating app or a massive multiplayer online game . This can be done in a common app decision . If the common app or process or service is not shared by the two networked devices then the method returns to the selection devices operation and selects a new pair of networked devices that can include one of the previously selected networked devices or two previously unselected networked devices. The common app decision then repeats in a looping fashion until two networked devices are found that share the common app or process or service . The decision can look for a particular app not just commonality of any app. The particular app or process or service is typically one in which proximity between networked devices is required for initiation of the app or for initiation of a feature of the app.

Once two networked devices are found with the common app the method moves to a common access points decision where the proximity component of the server system determines whether the two networked devices are proximal to each other. Proximity exists where both networked devices are within a maximum communication range of an access point. One way to determine this is for the proximity component to analyze identifications of access points provided by the networked devices and identify overlaps. Where both networked devices identify the same one or more access points those networked devices are proximal. If no one access point is commonly detectable by both networked devices then the method returns to the selection devices operation and selects a new pair of networked devices possibly including one of the previously selected networked devices .

If at least one common access point is found to have been identified by the two networked devices then the method can store a proximity value in a data store of the server system in an optional store proximity value operation . The proximity value can represent that the two networked devices are proximal to each other separated by no more than twice the maximum range of one access point. This proximity can be determined despite the networked devices not sharing or providing location information with each other or with the server system.

The server system via the proximity component can then initiate an action based on this proximity. In some cases the action includes initiation of software or a feature of software running on the networked devices e.g. applications . . . . . . or other processes or services. This can occur via an initiate software operation . Alternatively or concurrently the proximity component can instruct the networked devices to initiate communication in an initiate communication operation .

While this method has been described as linearly operating on two networked devices at a time or the information that they provide to the server system one of skill in the art will recognize that this method is equally applicable to operation upon three or more networked devices simultaneously. For instance all networked devices may periodically upload identifications of detectable access points to the server system and the server system can identify proximal networked devices based on all of these uploaded identifications simultaneously or in an overlapping or parallel manner rather than comparing identifications from two networked devices at a time. Similarly if three or more networked devices are proximal the method can initiate action amongst the three or more networked devices simultaneously. In some embodiments the method can be carried out by any one or more of the components illustrated in either alone or in combination.

It should be noted that some embodiments may appear to require access to a common access point in order for there to be proximity between networked devices. However one of skill in the art will recognize that mere detection of a common access point can indicate proximity and as such access and detection are not synonymous.

The systems and methods described herein can be implemented in a machine such as a computer system in addition to the specific physical devices described herein. shows a diagrammatic representation of one embodiment of a machine in the exemplary form of a computer system within which a set of instructions can execute for causing a device to perform or execute any one or more of the aspects and or methodologies of the present disclosure. Examples of computer system include but are not limited to the server system the access point the WAPs and the communication devices . The components in are examples only and do not limit the scope of use or functionality of any hardware software embedded logic component or a combination of two or more such components implementing particular embodiments.

Computer system may include a processor e.g. proximity components a memory e.g. data store and a storage e.g. data store that communicate with each other and with other components via a bus . The bus may also link a display one or more input devices which may for example include a keypad a keyboard a mouse a stylus a radio a modem etc. one or more output devices e.g. a radio or modem one or more storage devices and various tangible storage media . All of these elements may interface directly or via one or more interfaces or adaptors to the bus . For instance the various tangible storage media can interface with the bus via storage medium interface . Computer system may have any suitable physical form including but not limited to one or more integrated circuits ICs printed circuit boards PCBs mobile handheld devices such as mobile telephones or PDAs laptop or notebook computers distributed computer systems computing grids or servers.

Processor s or central processing unit s CPU s optionally contains a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. For instance the cache memory unit can temporarily store an identification of an access point or an identification of a networked device. The cache memory unit can also store an access point signal strength or an identification of a proximal networked device. Processor s are configured to assist in execution of computer readable instructions. Computer system may provide functionality as a result of the processor s executing software embodied in one or more tangible computer readable storage media such as memory storage storage devices and or tangible storage media . The computer readable media may store software that implements particular embodiments and processor s may execute the software. The software may include the aforementioned applications . . . . . . or the aforementioned proximity components . Memory may read the software from one or more other computer readable media such as mass storage device and or tangible storage media or from one or more other sources through a suitable interface such as network interface . The software may cause processor s to carry out one or more processes or one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. Carrying out such processes or steps may include defining data structures stored in memory and modifying the data structures as directed by the software.

The memory may include various components e.g. machine readable media including but not limited to a random access memory component e.g. RAM e.g. a static RAM SRAM a dynamic RAM DRAM etc. a read only component e.g. ROM and any combinations thereof. ROM may act to communicate data and instructions unidirectionally to processor s and RAM may act to communicate data and instructions bidirectionally with processor s . ROM and RAM may include any suitable tangible computer readable media described below. In one example a basic input output system BIOS including basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up may be stored in the memory . For instance the memory can store an identification of an access point or an identification of a networked device. The memory can also store an access point signal strength or an identification of a proximal networked device. The memory can also store tangible computer readable instructions for carrying out the methods illustrated in .

Storage is connected bidirectionally to processor s optionally through storage control unit . Storage provides additional data storage capacity and may also include any suitable tangible computer readable media described herein. Storage may be used to store operating system EXECs executables data API applications application programs and the like. Exemplary data includes positions of access points identifications of access points and or networked devices distances between networked devices lists of access points detectable by networked devices lists of access points commonly detectable by two or more networked devices access point protocols and SSIDs to name just a few non limiting examples. Often although not always storage is a secondary storage medium such as a hard disk that is slower than primary storage e.g. memory . Storage can also include an optical disk drive a solid state memory device e.g. flash based systems or a combination of any of the above. Information in storage may in appropriate cases be incorporated as virtual memory in memory .

In one example storage device s may be removably interfaced with computer system e.g. via an external port connector not shown via a storage device interface . Particularly storage device s and an associated machine readable medium may provide nonvolatile and or volatile storage of machine readable instructions data structures program modules and or other data for the computer system . In one example software may reside completely or partially within a machine readable medium on storage device s . In another example software may reside completely or partially within processor s .

Bus connects a wide variety of subsystems. Herein reference to a bus may encompass one or more digital signal lines serving a common function where appropriate. Bus may be any of several types of bus structures including but not limited to a memory bus a memory controller a peripheral bus a local bus and any combinations thereof using any of a variety of bus architectures. As an example and not by way of limitation such architectures include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local bus VLB a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus HyperTransport HTX bus serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus and any combinations thereof.

Computer system may also include an input device . In one example a user of computer system may enter commands and or other information into computer system via input device s . Examples of an input device s include but are not limited to an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a pointing device e.g. a mouse or touchpad a touchpad a joystick a gamepad an audio input device e.g. a microphone a voice response system etc. an optical scanner a video or still image capture device e.g. a camera and any combinations thereof. Input device s may be used to accept or deny a communication prompting to a proximal networked device or to allow the initiation of a software application triggered by a proximity of another networked device. Input device s may be interfaced to bus via any of a variety of input interfaces e.g. input interface including but not limited to serial parallel game port USB FIREWIRE THUNDERBOLT or any combination of the above.

In particular embodiments when computer system is connected to network computer system may communicate with other devices specifically networked devices server systems and access points connected to network . Exemplary devices that may communicate via the network include but are not limited to server system the access point WAPs and the communication devices via access points . Communications to and from computer system may be sent through network interface e.g. network interfaces . For example network interface may receive incoming communications such as requests or responses from other devices in the form of one or more packets such as Internet Protocol IP packets from network and computer system may store the incoming communications in memory for processing. Computer system may similarly store outgoing communications such as requests or responses to other networked devices in the form of one or more packets in memory and communicated to network from network interface . Processor s may access these communication packets stored in memory for processing. For instance the proximity component of the server system may access the data store in order to look for overlaps in access point identifiers received from the first and second communication devices .

Examples of the network interface include but are not limited to a network interface card a modem and any combination thereof. Examples of a network or network segment include but are not limited to a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet an enterprise network a local area network LAN e.g. a network associated with an office a building a campus or other relatively small geographic space a telephone network a direct connection between two computing devices and any combinations thereof. A network such as network may employ a wired and or a wireless mode of communication. In general any network topology may be used.

Information and data can be displayed through a display . Examples of a display include but are not limited to a liquid crystal display LCD an organic liquid crystal display OLED a cathode ray tube CRT a plasma display and any combinations thereof. The display can interface to the processor s memory and storage as well as other devices such as input device s via the bus . The display is linked to the bus via a video interface and transport of data between the display and the bus can be controlled via the graphics control . The display may be the display of one of the communication devices . The display may render text or graphics indicating that proximal networked devices are detectable access points or display portions of applications that require or request proximity.

In addition to a display computer system may include one or more output devices including but not limited to an audio speaker a printer and any combinations thereof. Such peripheral output devices may be connected to the bus via an output interface . Examples of an output interface include but are not limited to a serial port a parallel connection a USB port a FIREWIRE port a THUNDERBOLT port and any combinations thereof.

In addition or as an alternative computer system may provide functionality as a result of logic hardwired or otherwise embodied in a circuit which may operate in place of or together with software to execute one or more processes or one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. Reference to software in this disclosure may encompass logic and reference to logic may encompass software. Moreover reference to a computer readable medium may encompass a circuit such as an IC storing software for execution a circuit embodying logic for execution or both where appropriate. The present disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of hardware software firmware or a combination of two or more of hardware software and firmware.

In one embodiment the computer system can be a part of a server system e.g. server system . The processor can carry out identification of communication devices and other computing devices detecting or detectable by the same access points. Identifiers of computing devices detecting or detectable by the same access points can be stored in memory . The identifiers can be passed to the identified networked devices and computing devices via the network interface and via the network such as the Internet or a cellular based network. A processor within those networked devices and computing devices can then carry out an action based on knowledge of proximity as supplied by the server system.

Those of skill in the art will understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill in the art will further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware software or firmware depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor in firmware or in a combination of two or more of these. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

