---

title: Method and apparatus for sharing a communication among wireless devices
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided for enabling a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device. A method may include determining at least one communication directed to at least one device and one or more other devices within a proximity of the at least one device. The method also comprises causing a conveying of the at least one communication to at least one of the one or more other devices based, at least in part, on a determination of a request to receive the at least one communication by the at least one of the one or more other devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143912&OS=09143912&RS=09143912
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09143912
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20121120
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. In particular these include services for sharing information content and communications among select users e.g. group sharing . By way of example a recipient of a phone call or other communication at their mobile device may wish to have the call and all future calls shared with a group of peer mobile device users. Unfortunately there is currently no solution for enabling a communication intended for one recipient to be automatically shared with a group of other mobile devices via a cellular network.

Therefore there is a need for an approach to enabling a communication intended for one recipient to be automatically conveyed to a group of other mobile devices within proximity of the recipient.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining at least one communication directed to at least one device. The method also comprises determining one or more other devices within a proximity of the at least one device. The method also comprises causing at least in part a transmission of at least one notification of the at least one communication to the one or more devices. The method further comprises causing at least in part a relaying a forwarding or a combination thereof of the at least one communication from the at least one device to at least one of the one or more other devices based at least in part on a determination of a request to receive the at least one communication by the at least one of the one or more other devices.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine at least one communication directed to at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more other devices within a proximity of the at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to transmit at least one notification of the at least one communication to the one or more devices. The apparatus is further caused to relay forward or a combination thereof the at least one communication from the at least one device to at least one of the one or more other devices based at least in part on a determination of a request to receive the at least one communication by the at least one of the one or more other devices.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine at least one communication directed to at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more other devices within a proximity of the at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to transmit at least one notification of the at least one communication to the one or more devices. The apparatus is further caused to relay forward or a combination thereof the at least one communication from the at least one device to at least one of the one or more other devices based at least in part on a determination of a request to receive the at least one communication by the at least one of the one or more other devices.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining at least one communication directed to at least one device. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more other devices within a proximity of the at least one device. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a transmission of at least one notification of the at least one communication to the one or more devices. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a relaying a forwarding or a combination thereof of the at least one communication from the at least one device to at least one of the one or more other devices based at least in part on a determination of a request to receive the at least one communication by the at least one of the one or more other devices.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims and .

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for enabling a communication intended for one device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other mobile devices within proximity of the recipient are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to ad hoc mesh networking it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other peer to peer communication techniques. Furthermore various communication protocols may be employed in connection with the differing communication techniques including for example voice over internet protocol broadband telephony and the like.

Typically communications are directed to a single recipient by way of a unique identifier. The identifier may be a phone number email address or messaging handle for referencing a specific device and or user. By way of example a communication source in the form of a mobile device can submit a text message to wireless device or initiate a phone call by entering a phone number into a messaging or calling application. The recipient can respond to a call by accepting it picking up the call when their wireless device rings. In the case of the text message the user can review the message once it is received via an inbox of their messaging application. In both cases the user must have direct access to the receiving wireless device in order to accept or respond to the communication.

Unfortunately the user may not always have access to their wireless device for responding to communications or accepting communication requests. For example a user of a mobile phone may inadvertently leave the device in a pocket or purse rather than carry it on their person as they interact with family friends or other associates. Under this scenario the user is unable to respond to any communications they receive as they are away from or not paying attention to their phone. The person attempting to communicate with the user via one or more communication sources would have to wait for a response at a later time. Or alternatively the person could attempt to contact the phone of one of the associates of the user e.g. a family member in an attempt to reach the user by way of proxy third party. The former results in delayed receipt and response to the communication while the latter is tedious for the caller as they may not know which mobile device to contact to reach the user. Furthermore the recipient of the communication may miss communications requiring immediate attention. Current cellular networks do not support the automated conveyance of communications intended for a specific recipient e.g. wireless device to a select group of other wireless devices e.g. wireless devices and within proximity of the recipient.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to configure multiple wireless devices associated with a common group to share a single communication. By way of example the system enables communications received by any one of the devices of the group to be conveyed i.e. shared forwarded relayed presented to with the remaining devices of the group. Under this scenario the device performing the conveyance acts as a recipient while the other devices to which the communication is conveyed serve as remote communication nodes on behalf of the recipient. Hence any remote communication node within proximity of the recipient may be employed to carry out fulfill interact with or respond to the received communication a communication source for initiating the communication or a combination thereof.

The devices are any type of mobile terminal portable terminal or fixed terminal including mobile handsets personal computers stations units devices multimedia tablets Internet nodes communicators Personal Digital Assistants PDAs radio readable tags e.g. near field communication NFC tags radio frequency identification RFID tags or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the devices can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. . In certain embodiments only those devices within proximity of the recipient device to which the communication was originally directed e.g. device are enabled for conveyance of the communication. Conveyance of a communication may include for example the sharing forwarding presenting and or relaying of a message content information or a combination thereof a communication initiated transmitted by a communication source . The user of device is able to select a specific group of wireless devices to receive the communication from among a community of devices configured for range based peer to peer networking.

By way of example the community of devices conveys communications via a range based communication network . Range based communication network is established according to one or more networking techniques including for example ad hoc mesh networking wireless node radio communication or the like. Resultantly the network supports establishment of secure peer to peer communication channels between respective devices comprising the community. As such data is packaged for transmission via the one or more channels according to various known and still developing protocols including Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Secure Voice over IP SVoIP and other means of transporting data via internet protocol telephony.

The community of devices comprises the collective sum of all devices configured to interact within and or establish among themselves a range based communication network . Hence it is noted that one or more of the collective devices of the community may be further defined by respective users of said devices as belonging to one or more defined groups. For example a user of device may associate devices and with a group entitled My Family for denoting those devices belonging to family members. Still further the user may associate device with a group entitled Judo Club for denoting those devices belonging to members of a martial arts school the user attends. Under this approach a communication received by device from a known family member may be selected by the user via the related group designation for conveyance to devices and . Likewise a call from a martial arts instructor may be selected by the user via the related group designation for conveyance to only device . In this example the specific identify of the caller may be determined e.g. via caller identification message tracking or the like for enabling targeted and or conditional conveyance of the communication.

It is noted that any of the devices within the community and furthermore within proximity of one another may serve as remote communication nodes for another device. Hence conveyance is based on the appropriate group affiliation and or proximity conditions being met. As such the remote communication node carries out one or more functions pertinent to facilitating the communication as would the recipient wireless device. This may include for example causing activation a ringer or a vibration in response to a conveyed communication. As another example the remote communication node may be caused to render various images videos and other data to a screen of the remote communication node in response to a conveyed communication. The actions performed by the remote communication node relative to the communication depend on the capabilities of the devices i.e. device features a graphical user interface while device does not.

It is further noted that one or more conditions for conveyance of a communication may be established by the user of the recipient device. For example the user may specify that incoming communications be conveyed to select devices based on certain call characteristics timing requirements location information priority settings etc. Conditions are determined to be met based on the processing of metadata related to the incoming communication. Thus a text message conveyed by a messaging data source may include timestamp data device identifier data network address information carrier signal data user identifier information and other data for providing contextual operational and or environmental details regarding the message. In keeping with the above referenced example when the user is at the martial arts school practicing they may opt for all communications to be automatically conveyed to devices belonging to the Judo Club group. If users belonging to this group are present when a call arrives the incoming call signal is automatically conveyed to all members in proximity of those groups. Hence while the specific identity of the caller is not necessarily determined the group relating to the present environment and or activity of the user is chosen. Under this scenario if the user of wireless device per the Judo Club group is within proximity of wireless device the communication is directed to both devices and . This increases the likelihood of a pertinent communication being received by the intended recipient related peers within proximity of the intended recipient or a combination thereof.

It is noted that the call conveyance options conditional settings etc. may be configured prior to receipt of a call. In certain instances however the user may not have access to their device in advance. Hence in certain embodiments the user can also initiate various call conveyance options and settings upon call receipt e.g. on the fly . For example a user that receives a call from a particular caller may decide to share all future calls from the same caller with the Friends group from thereon.

In certain embodiments the proximity of a device to the recipient device at determines the ability of the device to serve as a remote communication node within the range based communication network . For example when device is determined not to be within proximity of recipient device only device and comprise the community. Likewise when device receives a communication it can only be directed to device even though it shares a common group affiliation with device . As a result subsequent communications intended for the recipient device are limited to being conveyed to device until device is determined to be within proximity again e.g. the device reconnects with the range based communication network . It is noted that the proximity of a device is determined based at least in part on a number of hops in an ad hoc mesh network a range of wireless communication radio a predetermined bounded area or a combination thereof.

Each of the devices is configured with a respective notification module and awareness services module . The modules operate in connection with one another as well as with various other executions of the mobile devices to facilitate the above described communication among commonly grouped devices. By way of example the notification module performs various tasks including 1 enabling the selection of groups and or other wireless devices to convey a communication to based on the proximity of the other wireless devices to a recipient wireless device 2 establishing one or more conditions for conveyance of a communication based on metadata context information user information etc. 3 conveying a communication based on the various conditions and or based on a selected group and 4 performing authentication of the one or more wireless devices selected to convey and or receive a communication. In certain embodiments user and semantic information is maintained by respective devices relative to incoming communications from a communication source .

In addition the notification module is configured to generate as well as receive alerts for informing other devices of incoming communication requests at the recipient device active communication sessions of the recipient device or a combination thereof. For example when recipient device receives a call from a voice data source e.g. a mobile phone the notification module generates an alert of the incoming call. It then transmits the alert to the corresponding notification modules and of devices and respectively. Transmission of the alert occurs after it is determined i.e. by the awareness services module that the proximity and or group condition is met. Alerts are sent in the form of a notification message or the like and may feature various controls and or interactive buttons for receiving response data. In certain embodiments responses may include acceptance of a communication rejecting of a communication etc. The alert generation and response process is described more fully with respect to .

In certain embodiments the awareness services modules of respective devices are configured to generate awareness information regarding the devices within the range based communication network . The awareness information is used to determine the presence of one or more wireless devices within proximity of a recipient device in response to receipt of a communication. In addition the awareness services modules are configured to enable generation and maintenance of a range based network for facilitating peer to peer communication.

In the case of ad hoc mesh networking connectivity is facilitated by way of connectionless seamless device sharing. By way of example the awareness services module metaphorically equips a communication device with radio eyes and ears to continuously collect and exchange relevant information and content with other devices within the boundaries of the network . The awareness services module facilitates enhanced conveyance of awareness information and or content supports peer to peer versus client server computing techniques maintains the privacy and anonymity of users sharing awareness information and prevents the proliferation of undesired messages e.g. spam over the network .

In exemplary embodiments the range based communication network may be formulated by the awareness services modules as an ad hoc mesh network. The ad hoc mesh network enables the sharing of awareness information and is for instance a connectionless and serverless device to device network e.g. a mobile ad hoc network MANET created using short range radio technology e.g. wireless local area network WLAN or Bluetooth . Within the ad hoc mesh network each device may be mobile and is within communication range of any number of other devices . Accordingly the set of devices that is within communication range i.e. within the bounds of the mesh network is transient and can change as the devices move from location to location.

Connectionless operation may include for example the ability of a node e.g. device to send and of all surrounding nodes to receive awareness information without the need to send any prior control signaling. For example sending awareness information using the transmission control protocol IP TCP IP over a WLAN ad hoc is not connectionless because of the two way TCP control signaling between the sending and receiving nodes used to establish the TCP connection. The awareness information is provided in small anonymous messages that are exchanged by the devices automatically without user intervention. By anonymous it is meant it is not possible to infer the true identity of the sender from the message unless the true identity is intentionally included in the message e.g. by the user of the recipient device or another entity authorized by the user . The exchange of awareness information occurs as a broadcast message i.e. a flooding message from a device to neighboring devices that are within range of the radio of the broadcasting device . As neighboring devices receive the broadcasted message each receiving device in turn rebroadcasts the message to other neighboring devices . In this way the originally broadcasted message propagates throughout the ad hoc mesh network e.g. range based communication network . In exemplary embodiments the extent of the propagation may be limited by criteria such as distance location time etc.

The awareness services module enables devices to access and share content including communications with one another readily via the mesh network. In addition the modules eliminates the problems associated with traditional methods for route establishment and maintenance e.g. connection based communication protocols such as maintaining and handing off connections as mobile devices move and requiring high levels of network resources for maintaining connections in an environment with a high number or density of mobile devices. For example the event of a device appearing disappearing to from the network does not generate any control signaling in the ad hoc mesh network.

Similarly the system creates routing information only when needed to route replies to queries back to the querying node i.e. a recipient device inquiring about the presence of one or more remote communication nodes and . The routing information is generated by using the query messages alone i.e. no control signaling is used for creating routing information . In other words the query reply process of system provisions routes for a reply to provide awareness information on demand rather than pushing awareness information from one node to another. In exemplary embodiments both push e.g. information is published over the ad hoc mesh network and pull e.g. information is queried from other nodes of the ad hoc mesh network modes of disseminating awareness information are possible. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that the pull mode of operation can be used instead of the push mode to help suppress potential spam messages.

The awareness services module also operates in connection with the various integrated sensory devices of wireless devices . This includes for example audio recorders video recorders spatiotemporal detection devices movement detection mechanisms etc. The sensor devices are able to provide additional contextual spatial and other practical data regarding each user within the ad hoc mesh network as engaged in the bounded environment for enabling conveyance of one or more communications. This data is collected by the awareness services module as user and or semantic information and can be processed by the notification module for determining the presence of devices performing device authentication etc. Furthermore the compilation of such data creates for the user a local semantic web whereby local awareness information and content are created and searched for automatically by devices within the ad hoc mesh network.

The awareness services module includes three layers an awareness layer a community layer and a network layer . The awareness layer is the highest control layer for sharing awareness information. As shown in the awareness layer includes a control logic and item storage . The control logic for instance provides the logic for creating publishing querying and receiving awareness information over the ad hoc mesh network. The control logic can store the information that it either creates or receives in the item storage . It is contemplated that the item storage may be of sufficient size to store all or a portion of the information that flows through the device over a configurable period of time e.g. days months or years .

In exemplary embodiments the control logic enables querying and dissemination of awareness information by initiating the flooding of the query or information to neighboring devices within the ad hoc mesh network. For example upon receiving a query the devices within proximity having queried for information reply to the querying node automatically. In exemplary embodiments the reply information is also automatically stored in the item storage of each device through which the propagating reply passes. Moreover the reply to a query may result in return of a pointer to specific content relevant to the query rather than the content itself under certain circumstances e.g. when the specific content is large in size . It is contemplated that the reply may contain direct content if the content is relatively small e.g. a few tens of bytes of information . In other instances however a pointer to the content minimizes the data traffic that flows through the ad hoc mesh network. The user may then access the content via the pointer e.g. a universal resource locator URL address IP address via a more appropriate communication protocol e.g. IP and or means of communication e.g. infrastructure networks . The receipt of the pointer e.g. IP address may automatically trigger the transfer of the content using for instance the communication protocol associated with the pointer i.e. session initiation protocol session description protocol. In the case of broadcasting or publishing information any device through which the published information propagates may store the information in item storage of the device . The publishing of information may include the conveyance of a communication which is published for access by the one or more remote communication nodes acting in connection with the recipient device.

In other exemplary embodiments awareness information can also be published or conveyed directly by flooding an awareness message. Such a push mode for the dissemination of awareness information can be used to support some applications e.g. advertising or group chatting over the ad hoc mesh network.

It is recognized that privacy and anonymity may be of concern to users of the system . Accordingly the control logic provides mechanisms for ensuring privacy and anonymity. For example the control logic can prevent the transmission of intimate information when the number of neighboring devices is small to prevent the possibility of inferring identity. As used herein the term intimate information refers to information directly related to the user e.g. the user s habits tastes or preferences musical preferences favorite restaurants etc. . Still further the control logic may process a key seed value unique identifier value or other data for performing user and or device authentication. As such the recipient device and wireless devices to receive a communication are able to validate the source of the communication within the ad hoc mesh network.

The control logic may also periodically broadcast decoy queries and replies to make tracking an individual device more difficult. Since an outside observer does not know the authentication key associated with a community the observer cannot distinguish a valid message from a fictitious one. Accordingly by observing decoy messages the observer is likely to detect presence of a private community when there is not one. Additionally the control logic enables to user to define filters for incoming information e.g. filter advertisements and how these filters would work e.g. ignore the information completely relay the information but do not store etc. . It is also contemplated that the user can direct the control logic to control the user s visibility on the ad hoc mesh network e.g. no visibility visible only to a certain community or other user to maintain privacy. As another mechanism for protecting privacy the control logic can interact with the community layer to anonymize a specific message and corresponding identifiers as described below with respect to the community layer .

Because one of the goals of the system is to provide a mechanism for anonymous spreading of awareness information it is recognized that undesired or unsolicited messages e.g. spam messages may become a problem. To address this problem the control logic may obtain for instance information from the lower system layers of the awareness services module about the traffic load and current average power consumption. If the traffic load is medium or high meaning that also power consumption related to system is medium or high restrictions may be set for the frequency at which flooding messages are sent by the control logic . It is also contemplated that the neighboring peer nodes can be configured to not forward any flooding messages originating from a node neglecting such message restrictions.

The awareness layer together with the community layer provide an application programming interface API to enable an application to access the functions of the control logic and the item storage . In exemplary embodiments the API enables application developers to have uniform and easy access to functions related to sharing awareness information over the ad hoc mesh network. It is contemplated that the API is extensible to accommodate any application designed to access or use awareness information. The applications in the various nodes do not have to be the same or mutually compatible. It is sufficient that the applications use the API correctly to be able to publish and search awareness information in the surrounding nodes .

The awareness layer also has connectivity to the community layer . The community layer controls the formation and cataloging of communities of devices within the ad hoc mesh network. By way of example a user may create any number of communities for sharing awareness information. It is contemplated that a community may be either a peer community e.g. any device may join a personal community e.g. a device may join only if invited or the open local community that consists of all nodes in the local neighborhood. In exemplary embodiments the messages that traverse between the devices within the ad hoc mesh network belong to one of these three community types. Communities can either be private messages are encrypted or public no encryption used .

Furthermore a community may be created for any purpose or duration e.g. a permanent work community a permanent community of friends a temporary community of concert goers lasting only the duration of the concert etc. . As shown in the community layer includes a community control module a community directory and an encryption decryption module . The community control module provides the logic for creating joining managing e.g. updating membership configuring settings and preferences setting privacy policies and deleting communities. The module also provides part of the API .

In exemplary embodiments the community control module assigns a unique community identification number CID to each community for use within the ad hoc mesh network. The control module can also generate authentication keys K associated with the CID to for instance authenticate users who wish to join the community or authenticate messages directed to the community. For example a device may invite another device to join a community by transferring the CID and authentication keys associated with the community to the other device . It is contemplated that the transfer of the CID and corresponding authentication key may occur using short range radio or using another secure mechanism e.g. short message service SMS or electronic mail . It is noted that both peer and personal communities use a CID and corresponding K whereas the open local community either can use a predetermined value for CID e.g. zero or does not use the CID at all.

To ensure privacy as discussed above the community control module interacts an encryption decryption module to anonymize the CID when including the CID in messages over the ad hoc mesh network. For example a device may direct a query to a specific community using an anonymized CID e.g. a pseudonym associated with the community in lieu of the actual CID. In exemplary embodiments multiple anonymized CIDs may be used to represent a single community. In this way it is more difficult to identify queries corresponding to a particular community by monitoring traffic within the ad hoc mesh network. From the perspective of an outside observer the anonymized CIDs look random. In addition the encryption decryption module may encrypt or decrypt message data using for instance a temporary key that is periodically derived from the authentication key K associated with the CID. These measures hinder the discovery of the CID by outsiders that do not have the authentication key. By way of example the community layer inserts a special header into the messages that it receives from the awareness layer . The special header for instance contains a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to which the message is relevant.

When the device is in the joined state the device may also be in either an inactive state or an active state . To transition between the inactive state and the active state the application may issue a command to either activate or deactivate the joined state via the application programming interface . When the device is in the inactive state the community layer abandons the message even though it is a member of the community. In certain embodiments the device may also be invisible to other members of the community while in the inactive state . For example the device may enter the inactive state when it temporarily does not want to receive or share information with the community. When the device is in the active state the community layer encrypts and decrypts community messages as usual for private communities and enables all outgoing and incoming community specific messages for public communities e.g. communities with no restrictions on membership .

Within the active state the device may also be in either an invisible state or a visible state . To transition between the invisible state and the visible state the application issues a command to set either the visible or invisible state. When in the invisible state the community specific identity e.g. a user alias associated with the device cannot be queried by other members of the community. For example in the invisible state the community layer continues to receive and send community messages without its identity known to other community members. When in the visible state the identity of the device can be queried by other members of the community.

In various embodiments the community directory of the community layer maintains for instance information on the communities that the user has joined. Such information contains at least the community identification CID . Additionally it may contain public and or private authentication keys K of the joined communities and a list of anonymized community identifiers for each community. The community control module may periodically recalculate the list of anonymized CIDs. By way of example the community layer inserts a header into the message it receives from the awareness layer . The header contains for instance a list of anonymized community identifiers identifying the communities to which the message is relevant.

It is contemplated that a special personal community can be reserved for tracking new bonds or relationships created between users. Consider for example that user A meets user B for the first time and wants to create a radio bond between the mobile devices corresponding to each user. In one embodiment user A can initiate the creation this bond with user B by transferring to user B e.g. by using a secure transfer mechanism the CID and the public K of user A s personal new bonds community. Similarly user B may give user A similar credentials corresponding to user B s new bonds community. Once the credentials are exchanged and the bond has been created user A may find user B over the ad hoc mesh network by searching for members of user A s new bonds community. In other words with a simple search of a single community user A can search for all the people in user A s local neighborhood with whom she has created a bond. This requires that a high number of community CIDs and Ks can be stored in the community directory . Also an effective lookup of the community directory must be provided. There are many existing and good solutions for such efficient lookup.

As the user creates new bonds the number community CIDs and Ks stored in the user s community directory can grow quite large. Accordingly to enable effective search of a large number of communities the community layer may generate a special community search message to initiate the search. For example the special community search message contains at least in part a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to be searched. To protect the privacy the community layer can generate a new set of anonymized community identifiers for each community search message. If the community layer finds a match to any of the anonymized community identifiers in any of the neighboring nodes that receives the search message the community layer generates a reply message that may contain the alias of the user in that community or other community specific information. The reply message may be encrypted with the encryption key of the community.

As shown in the community layer has connectivity to the awareness layer above and the network layer below. The network layer manages the rebroadcasting of received flooding messages and the routing of the unicast typically reply messages received by the device . depicts a diagram of the components of the network layer according to an exemplary embodiment. The network layer includes a network control module routing table neighbor table message identification MID table and message table . The network control module directs the broadcasts of messages and information by managing and updating the routing table neighbor table MID table and message table . In certain embodiments the network control module may also assist in protecting the privacy and anonymity of users by periodically changing the network layer identification associated with the device . It is noted that making such a change in the network layer identification between queries does not cause routing problems for replies because the routing information is recreated by each query in the ad hoc mesh network.

In exemplary embodiments the network layer may insert a header into messages it receives from the community layer to for instance direct flooding and routing of the received messages. The structure of this network layer message header is discussed with respect to . is a diagram of the data structure of a network layer message header according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown the message header contains the following fields 1 a TX field to identify the transmitter node ID NID of the last transmitting node 2 a SRC field to identify the source node ID of the node that originated the message 3 a DST field to identify the destination source ID of the intended recipient of a unicast reply message e.g. this field is give a value of zero when the message is a flooding messages 4 a MSN field to identify the message sequence number assigned by the source node and 5 a hop count field that is incremented by one by each node that transmits the message. In certain embodiments the message header may also contain the following optional fields 6 a geographical limit field to designate the extent of the physical over which the message is intended to propagate e.g. the geographical limit field may contain a geographical position of the source node and a maximum flooding radius from that position 7 a temporal limit field e.g. the temporal limit field may contain the time when the message becomes obsolete and should be dropped and 8 a context limit field that defines the context beyond which the message is not intended to propagate e.g. a message related to a particular concert is not intended to extend beyond the concert venue .

Returning to the network layer also contains a routing table . In exemplary embodiments the routing table contains a listing of the node identification number NID of the originating device e.g. source NID and the NIDs of the last known transmitters of the message. The purpose of the routing table is to enable the routing of the reply messages e.g. unicast messages back to the querying node that originated the query through a flooding message. As the message propagates through the ad hoc mesh network each subsequent device that receives the message adds the NID of the last transmitter to the routing table to record the next hop neighbor towards the source node. The source node is marked as the destination node DST in the routing table. Also the message sequence number of the message is recorded. The update of the routing table is coordinated by the network control module . As shown in Table 1 the routing table lists the destination NID the transmitter NIDs associated with devices that have rebroadcasted a message and the MSN of the message.

The neighbor table contains a list of the neighboring devices and an estimate of their relative radio distance see Table 3 . It is contemplated that the observed signal strength together with the known transmitting power of a neighboring device is an indicator of the proximity of the device and can be used to calculate the relative radio distance. The relative radio distance of the node from which the message was last received is then used as a criterion for whether or not the device retransmits a received message. For instance higher signal strength indicates closer proximity to the device . The network control module monitors the signal strengths of neighboring nodes as the module receives messages from nearby devices and uses it to estimate the relative radio distance e.g. proximity of the transmitting node . It is also contemplated that the network control module may use any other mechanism for estimating the relative radio distance of neighboring nodes e.g. estimating location using global positioning satellite receivers or other positioning techniques .

In certain embodiments the network control module uses the proximity information to direct the routing and transmission of messages over the ad hoc mesh network. For example the system can reduce the potential for overloading the ad hoc mesh network by implementing a smart flooding scheme whereby only a few nodes retransmit a flooding message. Whether a node retransmits a flooding message can be dependent on the relative distance group e.g. very near near or far to which the node that is the transmitter of the message belongs. More specifically if the transmitting node is in the far or near group the receiving node can retransmit the flooding message. If the transmitting node is in the very near group the receiving node does not retransmit the flooding message. For each broadcast message received from a node in either the far or near group the network control module assigns a random delay time for relaying or rebroadcasting. The delay period for instance exhibits a distribution function based on the estimated relative radio distance as a way to randomize the delay period before transmission. The distribution should be chosen in such a way that the random delay is larger for those nodes that are near than for those that are far. This favors for instance nodes that are further away to relay the flooding message forward which results in better flooding efficiency smaller total number of transmissions . The use of a random delay time also prevents the unintended synchronization of message broadcasts as the message propagates over the ad hoc mesh network. For example unintended synchronization of the message broadcasts may result in too many nodes sending broadcasting i.e. flooding messages over the ad hoc mesh network at exactly the same time. Additionally the delay time provides an opportunity for the network control module to monitor and count rebroadcasts of the message by other neighboring devices .

The MID table contains a list of received messages. As the device receives messages e.g. communications from neighboring nodes over the ad hoc mesh network the network control module uses the MID table to check whether the message has been received previously by for example comparing the MIDs in the MID table to that of the received message. The MID table also contains a flag indicating whether a message has been transmitted by the node and the time when the entry was last updated. In exemplary embodiments the MID is the tuple SRC MSN where SRC is the NID of the source node and MSN is a message sequence number assigned by the source node. In this way the MID is a unique identifier of each message that propagates in the network. The network control module makes an entry in the MID table for all new messages that it receives. If the message has been scheduled for transmission the module increments the message counter in the message table see Table 4 .

The message table contains messages that the network control module has scheduled to transmit. For example as the node receives a flooding message that the network control module schedules for transmission the module updates the message table to include the message in the message table . Each entry in the message table contains the message itself the time when the message is scheduled to be sent and the number of receptions of the same message by the node see Table 4 . In exemplary embodiments a message is not relayed over the ad hoc mesh network if the number of times the message has been received exceeds a predefined limit. For example a message has the initial count of 0. In this example as a device in the neighborhood is observed to transmit the message the message count associated with the message is increased. When the maximum message count is reached the network control module removes the message from the message table . The transmitter of each message is also associated with an estimated relative radio distance D indicating whether the transmitting node is within close proximity of the device e.g. transmitting node is in the very near relative radio distance group or far from the device e.g. transmitting node is in the far relative radio distance group . If the relative radio distance associated with the transmitting node indicates that the transmission of the message occurred very near the device would not have to relay the message because it is assumed for instance that most of the other neighboring devices have already received the same message. By taking into account the relative radio distances of neighboring nodes the described smart flooding functionality leads to on average each flooding message being received for a few times by each node independent of the node density. The number of times a message is received by any one node affects the scalability of the network.

If the received message however is a unicast reply message that was addressed to the receiving node the network control module checks whether the destination node can be found in the routing table e.g. can be found from the destination field in the reply message or obtained from the source field of the query by the replying node . If found the routing table entry will give the NID of the neighboring node to which the reply message will be sent in the next opportunity. If the unicast transmission is not successful the next entry for the same DST will be used as the next try. If the received message is a unicast reply message that was not addressed to the receiving node and no acknowledgment from the intended receiver node was heard the node will store the message in the message table for scheduled retransmission. It is noted that unicast messages or acknowledgement messages that are not addressed to the node are normally received D2D radio layer see discussion of the D2D radio layer below but not by the awareness services module . However under certain circumstances the D2D radio layer can provide such messages to the awareness services module to schedule for retransmission. For example if no successful unicast of the same message is observed by the time when the message is scheduled to be transmitted the node will transmit the unicast or acknowledgement message to the intended recipient found from the routing table associated with the message. In this way the nodes that are not the intended recipients of the reply messages can assist in routing the message forward towards the correct destination.

As shown in the awareness services module has connectivity to a device to device D2D radio layer . The D2D radio layer enables the formation of the ad hoc mesh network and sharing of awareness information using for instance short range radio technologies such WLAN and Bluetooth . It is contemplated that the D2D radio layer may use any wireless technology for communication between devices over short ranges. The radio technology for instance enables each device within the ad hoc mesh network to broadcast messages in a connectionless way to the neighboring nodes that are within radio range. As used herein the term connectionless means the devices need not use two way signaling to establish a communication channel before broadcasting a message. In exemplary embodiments the D2D radio layer may include multiple radios using one or more different technologies or protocols e.g. WLAN and Bluetooth simultaneously . A device configured with multiple radios may act as a gateway node to span two or more sub networks serviced by the different wireless technologies. In this way messages broadcast on one sub network may be propagated to another sub network.

Per step at least one notification of the at least one communication is caused to be transmitted to the one or more devices. As noted the one or more devices correspond to those determined to be selected by the user of the at least one device as belonging to a common group. In step a relaying a forwarding and or a combination thereof of the at least one communication from the at least one device to at least one of the one or more other devices is caused. The relaying forwarding etc. is executed based on a determination of a request to receive the at least one communication by the at least one of the one or more other devices.

In step of process the notification module causes a generation of the at least one notification to include an identifier of the at least one device a user associated with the at least one device and or a communication account associated with the at least one device. In another step the module causes a generation of the at least one notification to include a request for authentication information. As noted previously the authentication information is provided by the at least one of the one or more devices to the relaying the forwarding a presentation of additional information or a combination thereof. The additional information includes at least in part an originator of the at least one communication metadata associated with the at least one communication or a combination thereof.

It is noted that the metadata may be used for supporting the conditional conveying of communications to the one or more devices. Also of note the authentication step of may be executed optionally. In certain embodiments the authentication step may also be performed on a group or device specific basis. For example a device may be configured to receive a call from a device of a spouse without authentication while a call from any device in a Judo Club group would require authentication before conveyance is permitted.

In step of process the notification module and or awareness services module cause the relaying and or the forwarding of the at least one communication and or the transmission of the at least one notification via peer to peer networking and or ad hoc mesh networking. In another step at least another communication directed to the least one of the one or more devices while the at least one of the one or more other devices is engaged in at least one communication. Per step the notification module and or awareness services module cause transmission of at least another notification of the at least another communication to other ones of the one or more other devices. It is noted that when the subsequent communication arrives at a wireless device already being used as a remote communication node by the recipient device the call rings in all the other devices unused at the time e.g. those within proximity of the recipient device .

In of process the awareness services module determines one or more devices from among a predetermined community of devices step . As noted previously the community of devices includes those configured to interact within and or establish among themselves a range based communication network. Hence it is noted that one or more of the collective devices of the community may be further defined by respective users of said devices as belonging to one or more defined groups. In step the notification module and or awareness services module causes the relaying and or forwarding of the at least one communication via a Voice over Internet Protocol session.

Per step the awareness services module determines the proximity of one or more devices of the community based on a number of hops in an ad hoc mesh network a range of wireless communication radio a predetermined bounded area or a combination thereof. For example as noted previously the ad hoc mesh network enables connectionless stateless interaction between the devices. Hence when a communication is completed e.g. a phone call is dropped the VoIP connection facilitated between respective wireless devices over the ad hoc mesh network is dismantled and only the low power communication channels are maintained between the devices of the community subject to the shared conveyed communication. This low power state enables quick seamless connectivity between the recipient device and the remote communication nodes for conveyance of subsequent communications.

The recipient device receives a call from a device user caller named Mr. Brown. When the call arrives the display is caused to display an avatar user identifier information and a corresponding phone number related to Mr. Brown. In this scenario Mr. Brown is a known contact of the user of the recipient device . The user may select an ANSWER action button or IGNORE action button to accept the phone call or ignore it e.g. direct the caller to voicemail accordingly.

In response to the communication the user activates a SHARE action button to initiate a conveying sharing of the call with one or more other devices within a community of devices configured to communicate via a range based network e.g. ad hoc mesh networking capable . A selection menu is rendered to the interface for enabling the user to select from one or more groups of devices within the community to share forward and or relay the call to. When the user selects a group designated as GROUP 1 a pop up window is presented to the display for indicating which users and or devices are associated with the group. The user then selects an OK action button which in turn initiates generation of a notification of the call to all the other devices within proximity of the recipient device . This setting can be maintained for all calls received in the future until the configuration is changed again. Hence once a selection is made the user need not adapt settings even when they are in different places and environments.

It is noted that the notification message is transmitted as a single broadcast message. The broadcast message is received by any devices currently configured and active for communication within the range based communication network and corresponding to GROUP 1 . Hence awareness information is attempted to be generated for the wireless devices of the users within the group to determine their presence and proximity to the recipient device . During this time the user interface presents a message for indicating that the proximity detection and security verification process is underway as shown in . It is noted that the user may also opt to answer the phone call at any time by selecting the ANSWER action button without disrupting the authentication and or proximity detection process. In certain embodiments the authentication process as presented herein happens only if the user is using a different device to receive the call e.g. an alternate device to which the user s calls may be forwarded . Thus separate proximity detection is not required per the seamless connectivity and detection characteristics of the ad hoc network.

Once the proximity of the devices of GROUP 1 is verified detected and the authentication process is completed the user interface of device presents one or more icons and for representing the remote communication nodes to which the call can be conveyed. This display could be maintained continually during the call for indicating any devices belonging to the allowed groups that happen to be in proximity. Icons are presented or removed in conjunction with the entry or exit of devices belonging to the group accordingly.

Under this scenario the remote communication nodes correspond to the devices of the users labeled as Susan Ms. Sutton and Craig. It is noted that the only member of GROUP 1 in which the call is not conveyed is Sam. This may be due to various factors including the device of the user designated as Sam was not within physical proximity of the recipient device for establishing a range based communication network connection. Alternatively the device of the user Sam may have been within the appropriate proximity but the request for enabling conveyance of the incoming call was ignored. Within the context of an ad hoc mesh network the process of determining if devices are within proximity of each other is seamless i.e. no control signaling or connectivity alerts need be generated via an ad hoc network. Rather the determining is synonymous with an automated detecting sensing of a number of hops within the network a range of wireless communication radio a predetermined bounded area or a combination thereof.

In the device of one of the users designated as Craig that is within range of the recipient device receives notification of the incoming call. For the purpose of illustration device is able to receive calls directed to the recipient even in the absence of their device . The notification is presented to the display as a sharing request and includes an icon for representing an avatar of the user of the recipient device. Under this scenario the avatar is accompanied by user identifier information and a corresponding phone number related to the recipient Frank Sutton. Included with the user identifier information and phone number is also current authentication status information which in this case indicates Verifying . . . for representing the authentication process is underway. Authentication is purposed to verify that Frank Sutton is authorized to answer the call. Authentication is optional but in this case is required as a result of the settings made by the recipient Frank Sutton earlier with respect to the recipient device .

A prompt for indicating details about the user that initiated and directed the communication to the recipient device is also presented. It is noted however that the information is masked during the authentication process i.e. the avatar for representing the caller Mr. Brown is shown as a generic avatar . Only after the authentication process is completed are the actual details of the originating caller Mr. Brown presented via the prompt . For example once the user of the recipient device labeled Frank Sutton is authenticated the authentication status is changed to Authorized. Resultantly the avatar as well as the name Mr. Brown and phone number of the incoming caller are presented via the prompt . It is noted that this process is only performed when authentication is required by the device conveying the call to any one of the other devices within the community.

The user labeled Craig is also presented with an ACCEPT action button and REJECT action button . Activation of the ACCEPT action button corresponds to acceptance of the incoming sharing request and hence permission for the device to serve as a remote wireless node on behalf of the recipient. Activation of the REJECT action button serves as a rejection of the incoming sharing request. When the recipient accepts the call a VoIP connection between the recipient device and the wireless device of the user Craig for conveying the communication from Mr. Brown is activated assuming the authentication is complete . Of note the actual VoIP call can be established via a wireless local area network WLAN or WiFi direct connection between the recipient device and remote wireless node . Under this scenario the peer to peer call is routed through a WLAN access point and the necessary information for establishing call set up is transferred over the range based communication network e.g. ad hoc mesh network . As a result when the user of the recipient device accepts the call from Mr. Brown the VoIP connection as well as the cellular call is activated.

As shown in once the call is accepted the device presents the call from Mr. Brown as being actively shared. Of note the display is equivalent to that presented at the recipient device . Hence the avatar and name and phone number information of the originating caller that initiated the communication with the recipient device is presented to the now acting remote wireless node e.g. device . As shown in having established a connection any other content presented at the recipient device is also presented to the display of device . For example in the case of a web conference or video chat session with Mr. Brown content for conveying a sales report is presented to the display .

An END SHARING action button is also presented for selection by the user of device . Activation of the END SHARING action button causes deactivation of the connection with the recipient device for conveyance of the communication from the user designated as Mr. Brown. Resultantly any voice audio video or image content related to the communication is discontinued. Also the VoIP connection between the recipient device and the remote wireless node is dismantled. Only the low power connectionless channel as established via the range based communication network e.g. Ad hoc mesh network connectivity continues between the recipient device and the other devices within the community e.g. that of the users labeled Ms. Sutton Susan and the user of the recipient device . As a result of this low power connection subsequent communications conveyed by the recipient device to the shared device are seamlessly and automatically shared. Furthermore an incoming communication at the recipient devices causes a ringing alerting or generation of a notification prompt of the communication at device as well as any of the other devices of GROUP 1 that are still active within the community.

For the purpose of illustration the scenario of a user sharing a call directed to them via a device that is not their own is considered with respect to . By way of example the recipient Frank Sutton may accept an incoming call from Mr. Brown from device belonging to a user entitled Craig. The recipient can subsequently share the call as received and presently engaged with another user entitled Susan. Under this scenario the user identifier information and a corresponding phone number would indicate From Frank Sutton as opposed to To Frank Sutton being that the call is being directed to Susan from the alternate device . Also the prompt would indicate Call from Mr. Brown immediately as opposed to presenting the generic avatar or masking the identity of the originating caller. In this case authentication is not necessary as the call is conveyed to Susan s own device.

The exemplary techniques and system presented herein enables a communication to be conveyed to one or more other wireless devices within proximity of a receiving device. Other wireless devices associated with the receiving device by way of a common group designation can seamlessly receive and respond to communication direct to the recipient as if the communication was solely directed to the other devices. As such a notification message alarm ringer or other action triggered for execution at the wireless device due to receipt or acceptance of a communication is reciprocated by the other devices within range of the user.

The processes described herein for enabling a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to enable a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for enabling a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for enabling a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for enabling a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of enabling a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to enable a communication intended for a device to be automatically conveyed to a group of other devices within proximity of the device. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

