---

title: Converged telephone number mapping for call completion among hybrid communication services
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided for enabling routing and call completion among hybrid communication services. A client component receives a request to establish a call session, the request includes a service identifier tag that uniquely discloses a requested communication service. Client component validates the tag, and generates a query that is conveyed to a server, which supplies a set of Naming Authority Pointer (NAPTR) resource records (RRs) in response to query. The client component receives the set of NAPTR RRs; validates received Telephone Number Mapping (ENUM) embedded service and protocol identifiers associated with the NAPTR RRs; and associates the received tag with a matching NAPTR RR to route the call session and complete the call. Configurable logic that dictates association of the service identifier tag with a NAPTR RR also can enable routing and call completion when the tag is unavailable. A device that exploits service identifier tag is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08861511&OS=08861511&RS=08861511
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08861511
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120723
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 481 128 filed on Jun. 9 2009 and entitled CONVERGED TELEPHONE NUMBER MAPPING FOR CALL COMPLETION AMONG HYBRID COMMUNICATION SERVICES which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 159 703 filed on Mar. 12 2009 and entitled CONVERGED TELEPHONE NUMBER MAPPING FOR CALL COMPLETION AMONG CIRCUIT SWITCHED VOICE AND PACKET SWITCHED SERVICES. The entireties of each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject innovation relates to wireless communications and more particularly to correction of propagation delay of wireless signals. This invention relates generally to communication networks and more specifically to enabling call completion among hybrid communication services such as circuit switched voice services and packet based services in an internet protocol IP based network such as for example an IP Multimedia Subsystem network or any packet based network.

To retain current customers and add new service accounts mobile network operators exploit new technologies and put forward associated new services. Yet investment cycle from network deployment product rollout and revenue collection is substantially long e.g. 3 5 years . In addition deployment of mobile networks based on new technologies and associated services significantly erode legacy network deployments e.g. land line telephony digital cellular networks etc. and associated investment much of which is substantive not only in connection with deployment but also with maintenance and operation. Therefore migration towards advanced network technologies and rich complex communication services proceeds at slower pace than often planned.

To preserve investments on legacy networks and exploit packet based e.g. internet protocol IP based communication services telephone number mapping ENUM provides a technological framework that unifies telephone numbers within E.164 standard with IP based domain names. Such unification allows a telephone number assigned to a telephone that operates in any network technology including legacy networks to be resolved to an internet address and thus be exposed to IP based services e.g. voice over IP VoIP IP multimedia services etc. . Yet ENUM platforms typically are dedicated to conversion of telephone numbers into an internet address related with a dedicated service even though network operators generally develop suites of services directed to multiple customer segments in order to preserve and gain market share. Converged ENUM platforms have been exploited marginally thus far.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the invention nor delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation provides system s and method s for enabling routing and call completion amongst a circuit switched voice call and a packet based service in a packet based network such as an IP based network of which IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network is an example a VoIP network also is an example of the IP based network. In an aspect a system for routing and call completion includes an ENUM client component e.g. a serving call session control function S CSCF component an interrogating call session control function I CSCF component or a transit function component that receives an INVITE request to establish a call session wherein the INVITE request includes an IMS Communication Service Identifier ICSI tag or substantially any other tag that identifies a communications service that is requested. The ENUM client component extracts the ICSI tag and generates an ENUM query that is conveyed to an ENUM server that resolves the ENUM query and delivers a set of Naming Authority Pointer NAPTR resource records. The set of NAPTR resource records are resolved from a records storage that includes one or more records associated with disparate services for a set of subscribers. The ENUM client component receives the set of NAPTR records conducts an integrity check to validate received ENUM service resolution service and protocol identifiers and associates the received ICSI tag with the one or more of the received NAPTR resource records in order to route the requested call session and complete the call. ICSI tag or substantially any or any service identifier tag includes at least one service field attribute SFA or service attribute that uniquely determines a type of service that is associated with ENUM service identifier. For example ICSI tag service field attributes include Null Voice VideoShare and so forth. In an aspect one or more ENUM identifiers for ENUM services are generated in the subject innovation such as E2U videomsg sip the ENUM identifiers can be mapped one to one to ICSI tag service field attributes.

In an aspect of the subject innovation the ENUM client component receives logic embodied in a set of code instructions for example to associate an ICSI tag with one or more NAPTR records or to validate an ICSI tag. The logic is configurable and upgradable or extensible and can be implemented by a system that can reside within one or more network components e.g. control layer components within an IMS platform or any IP based or packet based network or a network or platform external and functionally coupled thereto. In addition the ENUM client component can receive configurable logic that establishes a procedure for routing and completing a call when the ICSI tag is absent e.g. the ICSI tag is not extracted by a query component that resides in the ENUM client component or an extracted ICSI tag has an erroneous value.

It is noted that aspects and features of the subject innovation allow for completion of hybrid calls based on services that operate with disparate communication technology e.g. circuit switched CS voice call and packet switched PS data call such as calls associated with a video exchange IP based service. Accordingly a subscriber of VoIP services e.g. a consumer subscriber or a business subscriber can successfully effect a call to subscribers that utilize CS voice network. A converged ENUM solution in which a single ENUM client component and a single ENUM server functionally coupled to a record storage that includes a plurality of NAPTR records for each provisioned E.164 telephone number within a service provider network can enable call completion of the hybrid calls as described herein.

In another aspect the subject innovation provides a device that can exploit a service identifier tag that includes a set of one or more service field attributes which uniquely identify respective communication services. Based at least in part on the set of service field attributes and a service policy the device can select initiate or launch one or more applications that supply at least part of the communication services identified by the set of one or more service field attributes. In addition the device can select on or more communication protocols to enable delivery of data and signaling associated with the one or more identified communication services.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation can be exploited in substantially any or any wireless telecommunication or radio technology or network combined with a platform for packet based services. Non limiting examples of such technologies or networks include Femtocell technology Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution EDGE RAN or GERAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or LTE Advanced. Additionally aspects of the subject innovation can be advantageously exploited particularly in legacy telecommunication technologies.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the invention then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the invention. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the subject innovation may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer node selector interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB home access point HAP and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer prosumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth. The term prosumer indicates the following contractions professional consumer and producer consumer.

With reference to the drawings is a schematic example network environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. IMS core network CN also termed herein IMS core Home Subscriber Server HSS and converged ENUM platform can be part of an integrated interface that allows utilization of various communication services based at least in part upon various disparate technologies e.g. CS based or PS based technologies. It is noted that while converged ENUM platform is illustrated as external to IMS core at least a portion of ENUM platform can reside within IMS core for instance control layer can comprise one or more components of ENUM platform and effect functionality thereof. Control layer enables session establishment control and routing functionality for call sessions. It is noted IMS core and HSS are employed as illustrative examples of the various IP based or packet based networks in which aspects or features of the subject innovation can be implemented and advantageously exploited.

Disparate devices mobile or otherwise can exploit access nodes that provide entry points to the integrated environment. It should be appreciated that such integrated environment includes other functional components and platforms not shown that provide the various services. In an aspect of the subject innovation converged ENUM platform enables routing of call sessions among devices that utilize disparate services for communication. For example device A has an E.164 telephone number associated therewith and can be a device that exploits VoIP e.g. service A for voice calls and accesses the VoIP via access node A to service A which is functionally linked to IMS core for call session establishment e.g. through Session Initiation Protocol SIP or setup signaling H.323 protocol s routing billing and service consumption such as exchange of data and signaling associated with execution of one or more applications that provide at least in part service A. Device A which can be mobile or otherwise is functionally connected to access node to service A through a suitable link wireless or otherwise. When mobile device A is mobile in addition to suitable links device exploits radio access network RAN component s e.g. base station s to communication with access node . In addition device B also has an E.164 telephone number associated therewith and can exploit service B accessed via access node B and service C accessed through access node C . Device B is functionally connected to associated access nodes through at least one of respective suitable links wireless or otherwise or RAN component s . Service B can be a video exchange service and service C can be CS voice communication. Accordingly access node B can be an access Session Border Control SBC node while access node C can be a CS gateway GW . When mobile device A places a VoIP call for a voice session with device B IMS core provides call session control functions e.g. transport of an INVITE request that enable communication with converged ENUM platform for conversion of a dialed phone number into an IP based domain name associated with device B . In environment converged ENUM platform resolves two embedded ENUM services e.g. service A and B which are conveyed in two NAPTR resource records RRs for device B and routes the call to the CS voice communication service accessed via service access node C and provisioned for example through a GSM cellular network not shown . It should be appreciated that conventional distributed ENUM platforms would not complete such a call since such conventional platforms would deliver two NAPTR resource records without the logic that enables proper routing. It should be appreciated that additional devices can be connected to IMS core via respective access nodes and related links and can exploit features of converged ENUM platform as described herein. Aspects or features of call routing and call completion via converged ENUM platform are discussed next.

In an aspect of the subject innovation substantially all or all components that generate an INVITE request to establish an IMS based session can include or configure a service identifier tag which can be the 3GPP defined IMS Communications Service Identifier ICSI tag within the INVITE request in order to indicate the unique IP based service that is requested for the call session. In addition to including an ICSI tag components that generate an INVITE request or any other request indication to establish a call session e.g. voice or data session can insert a list of network supported communication services e.g. services provided or supported by IMS core network or a packet based network that can effect at least in part the call session intended to be established. Inclusion or configuration of the service identifier tag can consist of selecting the service identifier tag and writing it within the INVITE request. In addition components that generate an INVITE request can comprise user equipment UE e.g. device A or device B or application server s that can be part of an application layer functionally coupled to IMS core network or resident therein. In an aspect the ICSI tag includes a specific label field that specifies a service indication such as Null Voice VideoShare or the like for a communication service associated with the request. Default ICSI tag can be Null and special label Null can specify a default service in accordance with network operator service policy ies . Such label field s can uniquely identify a communication service and can be defined to be part of a standard protocol of IMS operation or substantially any custom service platform that provides packet based multimedia services. Packet based e.g. IP based services can include video exchange digital music exchange digital photograph exchange IP Television IPTV clips or substantially any or any packetized digital content. It should be appreciated that other service identifier tag types can be employed as long as the tag identifier affords a one to one e.g. unique association with a provided packet based communication service e.g. IP base multimedia services delivered through an IMS platform or core network.

When a subscriber initiates a call session e.g. voice or data session ENUM client component can receive an INVITE request which can include an ICSI tag that can be inserted by an end user device or user equipment UE mobile or otherwise that initiates the call session or an application server that effects at least in part the call session. Insertion of the ICSI tag or substantially any service tag with the functionality of ICSI tag described herein is seamless to an end user of requester UE and requires no end user intervention or interaction. It should be appreciated that session request mechanisms other than INVITE can be employed particularly in IP based or packet based networks other than an IMS network. A service tag can be incorporated within such session request mechanisms and utilized for service selection and routing and call completion as described in the subject specification. As an example a requester e.g. user equipment an application server or a session control component such as S CSCF can include the service tag in call session established in accordance with H.323 protocol s . It should further be appreciated that insertion of ICSI tag or a service tag employed in non IMS packet based networks can enhance rather than restrict substantially any or any call session establishment protocols such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP or H.323.

Query component receives the INVITE request to establish an IMS call session and extracts the associated ICSI tag which can be retained within tag storage . From dialed E.164 telephone number record in INVITE query component casts an ENUM query in conventional manner namely query component inverts the telephone number without consideration of intervening digits such as introduces . separators among each numeric digit in the phone number and appends a Top Level Domain TLD which can be customized to a service provider platform e.g. e164enum.provider.tld . Query component conveys the formed ENUM query e.g. ORIGIN 3.8.0.0.6.9.2.5.5.5.1.e164enum.provider.tld which corresponds to illustrative telephone number 1 555 296 0083 to ENUM server . It should be appreciated that TLD e164enum.my.tld can adopt other values based at least in part on the platform e.g. server that processes the ENUM query for instance the TLD can be e164enum.att.net e164enum.arpa etc.

In an aspect prior to delivery of ENUM query integrity component can validate ICSI tag or substantially any service tag employed to uniquely identify a communication service. It should be appreciated however that validation also can be conducted subsequent to delivery of ENUM query . Validation can include at least one of verification of presence of ICSI tag or evaluation of syntactical correctness of a service label within ICSI tag such verification can be effected at least in part through logic retained in logic store . Such logic employed for validation can be part of operator policy ies . In an aspect when an ICSI tag is absent integrity component can automatically insert an ICSI tag based at least in part on historical usage data associated with a requester e.g. mobile or tethered UE or an application server that submits INVITE . Such automatic insertion of an ICSI tag or substantially any or any service identifier tag allows universal or nearly universal interoperability amongst disparate packet based networks e.g. IMS core or interoperability between a packet based network and an external network e.g. a CS network or an IP based network. In addition integrity component can automatically revise or correct an erroneous syntactical construction identified as part of the validation process revision s can be implemented based at least in part on configured logic retained in logic store . ENUM client component can deliver an indication of successful validation of a received ICSI tag to a requester e.g. a mobile or tethered UE or an application server through signaling . The indication can include a lightweight file e.g. a cookie file that comprises a log of revisions or corrections effected by integrity component prior to validating the received ICSI tag .

When ICSI tag has been validated ENUM server receives the ENUM query and executes it to return a set of one or more NAPTR resource record s associated with the dialed telephone number as conveyed in the received INVITE request . NAPTR resource record s RR s can be retained in record storage and can include various embedded ENUM resolution service and protocol objects associated with a single dialed telephone number for instance E2U sip E2U tel E2U mailto E2U pres E2U page E2U http E2U smtp etc. Each protocol indicated in an embedded ENUM resolution service has an associated service address that enables routing the requested call session. As an example a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP web page can embody the service address of E2U http whereas an email address can embody the service address of Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP resolution service object E2U smtp . Record storage can be embodied in a Domain Name System DNS database and is extensible with respect to addition of protocol objects associated with valid services. In an aspect of the subject innovation routing to a video exchange subscriber can be allowed or enhanced through introduction of the embedded ENUM service named E2U videomsg sip . Likewise other ENUM embedded services can be introduced such as ecommerce services e.g. E2U ecommerce app . It is noted that in the subject application each ENUM embedded service and related protocol objects reside in a single repository e.g. record storage which provides at least part of the converged features of example system described herein.

Resolution or execution of query can result in the following set of three records displayed in conventional format with exception of the unique novel ENUM service E2U videomsg sip 

In the subject innovation when ENUM client component receives an ENUM response with multiple NAPTR resource records associated with disparate packet based services as illustrated above the ENUM client component can exploit the ICSI tag in the received INVITE to select a specific NAPTR resource record and process such selected record to route the session. Received record s can be retained in record store . ENUM client component can deliver routing information as part of signaling . Routing information can include at least one of a service address associated with the ENUM embedded service protocol linked to the selected NAPTR resource record or a logical address e.g. an IP address of an access node e.g. node that enables communication of traffic associated with the service identified in the ICSI tag . Association component exploits logic retained in logic store to associate received ICSI tag and collected NAPTR resource records RRs the logic employed for association is configurable and includes logic to be utilized when an ICSI tag is absent in INVITE or extraction of an ICSI tag is otherwise corrupted e.g. syntactically incorrect service label in ICSI tag and results in unavailable ICSI tag. In an aspect association logic can direct component to utilize a default service identifier or service field attribute in accordance with aspects described herein and discussed below. In another aspect service logic to be employed when ICSI tag is absent or irreversibly corrupted can include a directive to utilize a communication service compatible with functional capability ies of a user equipment provisioned to the called E.164 number as disclose in the INVITE request. Device identifiers such as Electronic Serial Number ESN or ICCID for the registered and active UE can allow determination of a default communication service supplied by IMS core or a disparate packet based network and functional compatible with the provisioned UE. For user equipment that can operate in various modes or technologies a ranking of two or more communication services ordered in decreasing degree of complexity e.g. top ranked service is the least complex such as second generation 2G voice service can be employed to determine a default communication service when ICSI tag is unavailable.

Through utilization of the specific unique label field or attribute that specifies a service indication via ICSI tag association logic e.g. retained in logic store can map isomorphically the specific label field to an ENUM embedded service labeled as enumservice for instance 

To ensure routing processing is accurate integrity component probes whether the ENUM services conveyed in the NAPTR RR s received in response to query are valid ENUM services. It should be appreciated that validity of a service can be subscriber specific in accordance at least in part with at least one of a called customer subscribed service s or UE that is provisioned or registered to a service account linked to the called customer. When service is determined at least in part by provisioned user equipment device identifiers such as Electronic Serial Number ESN or Integrated Circuit Card Identification ICCID serial number can allow determination of valid communication service s compatible with UE functional capabilities. Validation of ENUM service is additional to integrity tests of ICSI tag .

It should be appreciated that ICSI tag or substantially any service identifier tag that includes a specific label or service attribute field that uniquely identifies a communication service allows identification of a service and selection of a single adequate NAPTR RR that enables call session routing and completion among devices that can utilize a communication service through disparate technology e.g. radio technology or technology that provides specific functionality ies to the devices. ENUM platform provided through example system allows a converged approach to cross servicing since disparate services can be properly and robustly routed and associated call sessions properly completed. Services that can be hybridized via the converged ENUM platform embodied in example system include forwarding calls to email addresses or websites access to VoIP numbers mobile telephone numbers voice mail instant messaging IM applications and so forth. In particular the converged ENUM platform described herein can provide at least in part a consolidated highly reliable scalable and robust ENUM architecture for routing and call completion for Consumer VoIP over IMS Mobility services over IMS and Business VoIP services.

Example system can include one or more processor s configured to confer and that confer at least in part the described functionality of ENUM client component and components therein or components associated thereto. Processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or other memory ies to provide the described functionality of example system . Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject application and associated at least in part with functionality of example system . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processors can be a centralized element or a distributed element.

Policy or retained policy in policy store can determine monitoring criteria for service usage as conveyed or revealed by service identifier flags in INVITE requests or other requests to initiate call session s such as setup signaling in H.323 protocol. Monitoring criteria can determine at least one of a monitoring periods which can be utilized for collection of business intelligence related to consumption of a specific service b monitored subscribers or segment of subscribers for example requested service s of a suspended subscriber can be monitored to ensure a session initiation request that includes a service under suspension is denied or allowed services are authorized and effected monitoring criteria can thus be utilized to authorize a subscriber to effect a request to establish or initiate a call session or receive a session establishment request or c monitored services as identified by an ICSI tag for instance to determine volume of usage or consumption of extant or prospective service s or to measure effectiveness of a promotional campaign and product penetration related to a specific service.

Configuration component can convey logic to ENUM client component or most any other network component. It should be appreciated that at least a portion of logic can be subscriber specific. Likewise service identifier tags such ICSI tags retained in storage also are at least in part subscriber dependent Disparate subscribers can acquire disparate services from a network operator and thus a service account associated with a subscriber can be assigned specific service identifier tags for each acquired service that is available the service identifier tags can be retained in memory element . Service provider can assign the service identifier tags e.g. ICSI tags.

Retained logic or at least a portion thereof also can determine routing procedures in scenarios in which an ICSI tag is absent in an INVITE request or any other type or call session request that utilizes the ICSI tag or any service identifier tag. Logic in logic store also can dictate at least in part syntactical rules for revising incorrectly configured ICSI tags or substantially any other tag that uniquely identifies a service. In an aspect in the absence of an ICSI tag the specified logic can be dictated to autonomously generate an ICSI tag by inferring a service that is intended to be requested through the INVITE based at least in part on historical service usage of the called party inference s can be accomplished trough one or more of the machine learning techniques discussed below. An intelligent component not shown within association component can implement such artificial intelligence based logic. Historical service usage can be retained for example in a HSS or in a component that is part of a charging architecture of an IMS platform that provides one or more services. Policy ies retained in policy store can regulate at least in part the scope e.g. time span set of services . . . and granularity of historical usage data. It should be appreciated that other logic is possible such as utilizing a default ICSI tag instance e.g. Voice. 

It is noted that logic store and tag field storage are re configurable and extensible which provides for maintaining mappings among ICSI tags and NAPTR RRs as services are added to a service platform that exploits the converged ENUM system described herein. Likewise policy ies retained in policy store is also re configurable and upgradeable.

Example system can include one or more processor s configured to confer and that confer at least in part the described functionality of configuration component and interface component as well as components therein or components associated thereto. Processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or other memory ies to provide the described functionality of example system . Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject application and associated at least in part with functionality of example system . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s can be a centralized element or a distributed element.

It is noted that example system can be part of at least one of an example converged ENUM system or a control layer that resides within a packet based network.

Example system can include one or more processor s configured to confer and that confer at least in part the described functionality of the configuration component and components therein e.g. an interface component or components associated thereto. Processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or other memory ies to provide the described functionality. Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject application and associated at least in part with functionality of example system . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s or memory can be a centralized element or a distributed element.

In an aspect example system can reside within one or more components that can generate a request to establish a call session in a multi service network that includes an IMS core network e.g. or substantially any packet based network. As an example system can reside within a mobile device or customer premises equipment CPE served through a landline or backhaul pipe. The mobile device can be a multi mode multi technology device with CS and PS communication capabilities and SIP or other session establishment protocol s functionality. As another example system can reside within an application server AS within an application layer of the IMS core network or an application layer linked thereto.

Various aspects of the subject innovation can be automated through artificial intelligence AI methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios for example logic for ENUM client processing and routing when ICSI tag is absent or corrupted. Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set e.g. the collected subscriber intelligence in the case of subscriber segmentation. In particular one of numerous methodologies can be employed for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation also can be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies also can be employed.

For validated service tags packet based core network can monitor usage of a service conveyed by a service tag . Such monitoring can be based at least in part on policy ies retained in policy store in memory . In an aspect monitoring can include generation of historical usage data for at least one of a specific service a particular customer or a selected segment of customer. Historical usage data can be employed at least in part as business intelligence for service development or promotional campaigns. In addition historical usage data can be utilized at least in part to generate remediation rules or procedures for instance an intelligent component not shown within integrity component can infer a ranking of one or more most likely services requested for communication with a specific subscriber and select one of the ranked communication services to be inserted in a request that lacks a service tag . Additionally or alternatively the intelligent component not shown can infer revisions of syntactically incorrect service tags through by classifying syntactical errors and learning via a training set of erroneous service tags adequate revisions. Such learning set can be extracted from integrity logs not shown that can reside within memory .

In one or more alternative or additional embodiments integrity component can reside within one or more of application server s which can effect validation of service tags e.g. ICSI tags. In such scenario session control component can supply a received service tag and signal a validation request to an application server. Integrity component can implement integrity check s that can proceed as discussed supra.

Example system can include one or more processor s configured to confer and that confer at least in part the described functionality of the subject example system and components therein e.g. session control component or integrity component . Processor s can connect to the components within packet based core network through bus for data signaling or any other information exchange bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . Processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or other memory ies to provide the described functionality. Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject application and associated at least in part with functionality of example system . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s or memory can be a centralized element or a distributed element.

Association component receives the set or one or more NAPTR RRs and based upon association logic retained in logic store determines if more than one of service attributes are to be employed for association with received NAPTR records and service routing. It is noted that association logic can be part of network operator service policy ies which can be configurable by a network administrator see e.g. . As described supra association logic can be configurable and extensible and can depend at least in part on at least one of a called subscriber and UE provisioned therto a requester subscriber identified service s network operating condition such as congestion level for specific access nodes or a time at which request is effected e.g. an identified service can be utilized during predetermined hours of network operation. At least a portion of association logic also can be configured by a subscriber. When association logic establishes that a single service attribute is to be employed a ranking configured by a service provider or subscriber can dictate the service attribute e.g. that is to be acted upon. Ranking can be configured statically or dynamically based at least in part on at least one of service usage or subscriber associated with request . Configuration of ranking can be performed autonomously e.g. via an intelligent component not shown that can be part of association component and that utilizes patterns of service usage which can be based at least in part on historical usage data gathered as described supra and accessed through signaling . A default version of ranking can be supply by network operator when a subscriber is registered with the network and activation of UE is provisioned. In an aspect of the subject innovation each service attribute with k 1 2 . . . K K a natural number can include a priority indication that can override ranking The service with higher priority is employed by association component to select a single NAPTR RR and route a call session.

In an aspect association component can utilize the top ranked service attribute and identified service to associate the service attribute with one or more of the received NAPTR records such association proceeds as described above via a mapping of service attributes and ENUM embedded services identified in NAPTR records. When association is complete routing signaling is delivered through signaling which encompasses substantially the same information as signaling .

Alternatively when association logic allows utilization of more than one service attribute association component proceeds to associate each of the received service attributes with received NAPTR RRs. In an aspect association component effects each association in accordance with aspects described supra. When association is complete association component delivers routing information for each of the requested services. In the previous example when two service attributes are received in service tag and service attribute is Voice and service attribute is VideoShare a called party can receive two streams of data associated respectively with a discussion of a transmitted video and data for the transmitted video. For instance a requester customer can deliver a set of slides for a technical presentation related to SIP features to a called party through a first data stream routed via an access node e.g. a terminating S CSCF and can orally explain each of the slides through a voice stream served via a CS gateway and related over the air interface.

In an aspect of the subject innovation an application server that is part of application server s also can generate a request that includes service tag . In such scenario the application server can convey service tag to session control component for validation which occurs as described supra. It is noted that in one or more alternative or additional embodiments application server s can include integrity component to conduct the various integrity checks described herein. When validation is complete session control component can deliver service tag to the application server which conveys the service tag to billing system to implement at least in part charging for offline or online services.

Communication platform includes receiver s transmitter s that can convert signal from analog to digital upon reception and from digital to analog upon transmission. In addition receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. Functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component that facilitates manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. Electronic mux demux component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like. In an aspect of embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component . Processor s allows at least in part device to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats or inter packet times and other conventional operations that enable wireless communication

Additionally communication platform can include a wireline network interface that enables communication of data and signaling through a wired network such as a broadband network a cable network a conventional Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or CS networks. It should be appreciated that device can receive wireless data or signaling through receiver s transmitter s and relay such data or signaling via wireline network interface . Alternatively or additionally device can implement communication solely via wireline network interface as it can be the case when device effects a communication e.g. a VoIP call session. In an aspect wireline network interface can afford functional connection and communication with one or more access nodes functionally coupled to a packet based core network e.g. IMS core .

In an aspect of the subject innovation communication platform can receive a session initiation request e.g. an INVITE request and relay the request to session control component . Session control component through processor s can select initiate launch or terminate execution of the set of one or more applications based on a received service tag e.g. ICSI tag and one or more service field attributes e.g. included therein which uniquely identify a requested service. The one or more applications can be retained in application s storage within memory . To enable at least in part invocation of a specific application session control component can exploit content s of tag field storage to assist with identification of a requested service and related application within application storage . In addition session control component can utilize service logic retained in logic store to initiate and launch a plurality of applications that support a plurality of communication services when a received service identifier includes a plurality of service field attributes that identify respective communication services. Logic retained in logic store can be provisioned by the network e.g. IMS core and can include at least a portion of logic retained in network logic store . Likewise tag field storage can be received from the network during registration or activation provisioning of device .

Session control component also can initiate a call session and convey through communication platform a request to establish a session e.g. an INVITE request. To request a session session control component can exploit communication protocol s retained in memory element which can comprise SIP or H.323 protocol s . When a request to initiate a call session is generated session control component inserts a service identifier tag e.g. ICSI tag that includes a set of one or more service field attributes retained in tag field storage that uniquely identify a requested communication service. Such insertion does not require end user intervention besides execution of an application that acts as a driver application that indicates session control component to generate a request to establish a call session.

In embodiment multimode operation chipset s also termed herein multimode chipset s can allow device to operate in multiple communication modes through i various radio network technologies e.g. Second Generation 2G technology such as GSM Third Generation 3G technology of which 3GPP UMTS is an example Fourth Generation 4G illustrated by LTE Advanced . . . in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies and ii one or more wired PS or wired CS communication mechanisms. In particular multimode chipset s can utilize communication platform in accordance with standard protocols specific to a mode of communication operation such standard protocols can be retained in communication protocol s within memory . In another aspect multimode operation chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when Q 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm for instance antennas can receive voice wirelessly and a data stream for a specification application through wireline network interface . Such hybrid mode of operation can be configured at least in part through session control component via processor s .

In device technology selector can operate or drive operation of multimode chipset s through selection of one or more radio network technologies for communication in a specific telecommunication mode. In an aspect of the subject innovation as described above selection of a technology resource can be dictated at least in part by one or more service identifier tags e.g. an ICSI tags that uniquely indicate a communication service. Based at least in part on the one or more service identifier tags session control component can signal technology selector to configure multimode chipset s to operate in a specific communication mode.

Device also includes a functional platform that comprises a set of components not shown that provide at least in part one or more specific functionalities that complement or supplement wireless communication. As an example in the case mobile device is a telephone functional component includes functional elements such as a data entry interface e.g. a keyboard a biometric pad for biometric based access a microphone a loud speaker . . . a camera peripheral connectors e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port for transferring data to a disparate device a voice coder decoder vocoder and so on. It should be appreciated that functional platform can exploit applications stored in application s storage within memory to provide one or more functionalities. In an aspect of the subject innovation technology selector can exploit one or more driver applications in application s storage to interface with functional platform via processor s to properly realize and execute radio technology and application s combinations in device .

Device can convey through communication platform a set of one or more communication service capabilities to a network administered by a service provider. Communication service capabilities are supported through one or more applications retained in memory element and provide at least part of operational features of functional platform . In an aspect device can identify and select a set of communication services that are available based at least in part on service identifier tag and associated service field attributes retained in tag field storage . Selection of communication services can determine which communication service capabilities are conveyed to the network administered by the service provider. Delivery of an indication of service capabilities of device can occur at the time of provisioning and registration of device or at substantially any time thereafter. Moreover an indication of service capabilities can be supplied to the network upon request by one or more network components e.g. ENUM client component .

In an aspect functional platform can include a display interface that allows gestures for subscriber device interaction via at least one of a screen e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display . . . a sound interface and so forth. Additionally display interface can render content s that i control functionality of device as available in functional platform ii reveal operation conditions of device or iii allow selection of a communication service and initiation of a call session.

Device further includes power supply which can power up components or functional elements within device . When device is wireless power supply can be generally a rechargeable power supply e.g. a Li based rechargeable battery and it can include one or more transformers to achieve power level s adequate to operate device and components functional elements and related circuitry therein. In an aspect power supply can attach to a conventional power grid to recharge and ensure device is operational. Moreover power supply can include an energy conversion component not shown such as a solar panel to provide additional or alternative power resources or enhanced autonomy to device . In case device is a pseudo stationary tethered apparatus power supply can include an input output I O interface not shown to connect operationally to the conventional power grid and furnish power to device .

In an aspect memory is at least in part a subscriber specific removable computer readable storage medium such as for example a subscriber identity module SIM card which can be relocated between mobile devices in order to port display and network selection preferences. Memory also retains fail safe algorithm s that facilitate operation of device when radio technologies deemed preferred are not available or technology selector is faulty or unavailable in a mobile device. In another aspect fail safe algorithm s also facilitates operation and wireless communication of device via legacy radio technology layer s .

Additionally memory can store data structures e.g. metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions or substantially any type of software or firmware that processor can execute to provide functionality associated with substantially any component platform interface selector and so forth within mobile in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. Moreover memory can also retain not shown network or device information like specifications address book s code sequences for scrambling spreading blind decoding hypothesis semi persistent scheduling parameters pilot signal s e.g. reference signal s frequency offsets cell identifiers IDs and so on. Furthermore memory also can retain content s e.g. multimedia files subscriber generated data security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators such as voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints hardware identifying tokens such as IMSI a serial product number such as MEID and the Telecommunications Industry Association TIA electronic serial number ESN and so forth.

Device also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any component platform interface selector and so forth within Device in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. In embodiment processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. components interfaces platforms selectors . . . of device however processor can be distributed across such various functional elements. In addition processor s is functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as code instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to communication platform technology selector multimode chipset s and other operational components not shown of multi mode mobile .

In view of the example system s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to call flow in and flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more example methods disclosed herein can alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described example method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein. It should be further appreciated that the example methods disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such example methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory.

In an alternative or additional aspect of example method act also can comprise supplying a list of one or more communication services supported by the network that receives the INVITE request or substantially any other request to establish a call as part of the request to initiate a call session. In an aspect the list of one or more communication services is delivered to UE e.g. device .

At act policy to monitor usage of ICSI tags conveyed in respective INVITE requests is composed. The policy can employ various monitoring criteria to generate historical usage data for one or more communication services as described above see and related description . The policy can be at least part of network operator policy that regulates an IMS core network e.g. or a packet based core network e.g. and services provided there from. At act the established logic L configured logic L the specified logic L and the composed policy are retained. In an aspect the logic can be stored in a memory functionally linked to a component that enacts at least in part the subject example method . At act at least one of the established logic L the configured logic L or the specified logic L are conveyed. Logic can be delivered to an ENUM client component e.g. component that is part of a converged ENUM platform as described herein.

At act it is determined whether integrity check s are passed. In the affirmative case flow is directed to act . Conversely when integrity check s failed exception handling is effected at act . Exception handling can be can include notifying through delivery of signaling e.g. in the integrity checks of one or more NAPTR RRs or ICSI tag resulted in invalid or corrupted records or tags. Additionally or alternatively for invalid ICSI tag exception handling can include remediation procedures and implementation thereof such as revising syntactical error s in ICSI tags or automatically inserting in an ICSI tag a field label that uniquely identifies a communication service. Remediation can proceed in accordance with configurable logic see . In an aspect when remediation is successful and an ICSI tag is automatically recovered or inserted flow can be directed to act as illustrated with a dashed arrow head line. At act based at least in part on the ICSI tag and configured logic for ENUM client operation one or more NAPTR RRs that match the session INVITE request parameters are selected. Selection proceeds in accordance with a configured mapping or association between a service uniquely identified in the ICSI tag conveyed through the INVITE request and an ENUM service protocol and related service address. In an aspect as described supra the mapping can be part of association logic that enables selection of an adequate NAPTR RR. It should be noted that the one or more NAPTR RRs are validated records in accordance with configured validation logic. At act it is probed whether there are more than one matching NAPTR resource records. In the negative case at act client processing e.g. implemented through ENUM client component routes to service address in single selected matching NAPTR record. Conversely when the outcome of act is affirmative at act it is continued with record processing in accordance at least in part with a combined pair of order and preference field values or attributes as described above in order to select a single matching NAPTR RR.

At act it is determined if the logic establishes that a single SFA is to be utilized to associate SFAs with received NAPTR RRs. In the affirmative case at act a ranking e.g. ranking of validated SFAs is employed to select a single SFA validation can verify syntactical correctness of the received SFAs and where applicable remediation of corrupted SFAs in accordance with aspects described supra. At act the selected SFA is associated with the received SFAs with one or more NAPTR RRs in the set of received NAPTR RRs. At act a single matching NAPTR RR is selected for the selected SFA. Selection of a single matching NAPRT RR can include utilization of rule s to prioritize resource records according at least in part with a composite index order preference of various NAPTR RR that match the selected SFA.

When outcome of act reveals that one or more SFAs can be associated with one or more NAPTR RRs in the set of received NAPTR RR at act each validated SFA within the plurality of SFAs is associated with one or more NAPTR RRs in the set of received NAPTR RRs. At act a single matching NAPTR RR is selected for each validated SFA selection of the single matching NAPRT RR can include utilization of rule s to prioritize resource records according at least in part with a composite index order preference of various NAPTR RRs that match each validated SFA.

In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown or an external HDD can be present in addition to internal HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 17 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. For instance 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject innovation as disclosed in the subject specification can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

