---

title: 40 mm gun sleeve cartridge case for M320 grenade launcher ammunition
abstract: A non-spinning 40 mm ammunition round for firing in an M320 grenade launcher. The round includes a cylindrical shaped gun sleeve cartridge case, which covers the standard rifling inside the M320, and thus presents a smooth bore surface to the fired ammunition. Because the ammunition is not launched in a spinning mode, it may now comprise those guidance and camera components as may be desired which components would not have been possible to employ on a round that is spinning.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09010248&OS=09010248&RS=09010248
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09010248
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 577 235 filed on Dec. 19 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

There exists a need to extend the range of existing 40 mm low velocity projectiles and also to eliminate projectile spinning when fired from a M203 or M320 Gun. Further there is a need extend projectile range from the current 400 450 meters up to as much as 1000 plus meters. In addition a need exists to provide projectile guidance navigation and control subsystem components within the body of the low velocity 40 mm projectile to permit increased accuracy and precision hits on targets as far range as beyond 1000 meters. To accomplish these aims it is required to fire the guided projectiles in the M320 without projectile spinning. This is because the guidance navigation and control subsystems would not function properly if the cartridge were spinning at any appreciable revolution rate.

The M203 is not a stand alone gun. It must be attached to an M16 or M4 rifle for instance and fires a family of 40 mm low velocity projectile rounds. In order to load a 40 mm round into an M203 the forward sleeve of the gun tube is slid forward and a 40 mm round is pushed into the sleeve. The sleeve is then slid backwards and locked into position ready to fire. The barrel of the M203 is rifled which spins up the projectile as it travels down the barrel tube and the projectile leaves the gun tube with a high spin rate. Therefore to be able to add the proposed guidance navigation and control subsystems in a projectile for the M203 M320 a way is needed to avoid projectile spin. Projectiles currently used for the M203 M320 include the M433 High Explosive Dual Purpose Round M406 High Explosive Round M583A1 Star Parachute Round M585 White Star Cluster Round M713 Ground Marker Round M781 Practice Round M651 CS Round and M576 Buckshot Round.

The 40 mm cartridge case is typically not reused or recycled after firing. If the cartridge case gets stuck in the gun tube there is a tool to help the war fighter push it from the tube. The M320 fires the same 40 mm low velocity ammunition as the M203. There are several improvements that the M320 has compared to the M203. The M320 has stand alone single shot capability and may be fired by the war fighter without attaching to a gun. It also has the capability to be attached to and fired from the M16 M4 rifle similarly to the M203. A major improvement of the M320 is the ability of the firing tube to open sideways. By opening sideways longer ammunition can be loaded into the M320 gun tube as compared to loading in an M203. While the approximate maximum length of the projectile is approximately five inches in the M203 projectiles several inches longer can be loaded into an M320. Both M203 and M320 have rifled barrels which induce spinning in the projectile as it travels through the gun tube. The spin increases accuracy of the round while in flight and the spin rate is substantial at approximately 1800 revolutions per second. While this spin is good for standard 40 mm ammunition it is however not applicable for the latest in 40 mm guided munitions as was mentioned. Guided ammunition would need to have no spin or very little spin so that the seeker or camera therein can see the target clearly while in flight. If the projectile were to spin the seeker or camera would therefore not be able to find the target. There are several devices that can be added to solve this problem but they are expensive and take up payload space inside the projectile which is better needed to carry explosives e.g. needed in the projectile. There are also decoupling bands that may be placed on the projectile to reduce or eliminate spin. Such bands are not always effective and a good percentage of the projectiles coming from the gun tube still have spin of varying revolutions per second. What is needed is a way to fire the guided projectiles in an M320 e.g. without the projectile spinning.

Proposed herein is a gun sleeve cartridge case and for e.g. a 40 mm M320 system projectile in order to solve the spin problem as was mentioned in the M320. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case loads and fits into an M320 and can also be easily removed after firing. The sleeve portion which will enclose the 40 mm Projectile is made to slide snugly right into the M320 tube and effectively shields against the rifling found in the barrel of the Gun launcher tube whereas the interior of the sleeve can now be seen to be a perfectly smooth bore. Therefore when this projectile is fired it will not now be spun up by the rifling in the gun tube but only see the smooth bore. The projectile flight will now not have any appreciable spin which is the desired result to have been achieved. This 40 mm gun sleeve cartridge case ammunition can easily be inserted into an M320 gun and sleeve will take up the entire length of the gun tube.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide means for an ammunition projectile to be launched without spin on the launched projectile in flight from a conventional M320 grenade launcher gun.

Another object of the present invention to provide means for launching a guided munition in an M320 grenade launcher gun.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide extended range for an ammunition projectile fired from an M320 grenade launcher gun through effectively providing a longer gun tube path during firing.

It is a yet another object of the present invention to provide extended range for an ammunition projectile fired from an M320 grenade launcher gun through effectively providing a thicker walled reinforced strength gun tube which can withstand more propellant pressure applied during launching to yield greater velocities hence increased range.

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide ammunition projectile fired from an M320 grenade launcher which due to de spinning can eliminate costly and difficult to manufacture flutes from the explosive shape charge jet liner in the ammunition.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention for example could be used on grenade launchers other than an M320 including stand alone devices to receive a grenade launcher other types of shoulder launched weapons or weapons other than grenade launchers and for ammunition other than necessarily the caliber or types shown here where the principles of the invention might be beneficially employed.

Presented herein is a way to fire guided projectiles in an M320 without the projectile spinning. A 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case has been designed to solve the spin problem in the M320. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case loads and fits snugly into an M320 and can be easily removed after firing. The sleeve slides into the M320 tube and goes against and covers over the tube s interior rifling. What will be experienced now by the projectile would only be the interior of sleeve which is smooth bore. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case is easily inserted into an M320 gun and will take up the entire length of the gun tube. The sleeve material is aluminum or steel or a composite. The sleeve length might be 7 to 14 inches.

Upon firing of the propellant the copper cup will immediately melt away and the pressure of expanding gases caused by the burned propellant approximately 4000 psi e.g. will be of sufficient pressure approximately 300 psi e.g. needed to blow through vent holes to propel the round out of the sleeve . Therefore it will be seen that the M320 gun sleeve effectively converts an M320 into use as a smooth bore tube. This result allows for newly designed non spin type 40 mm guided projectiles to be fired from an M320. In addition the M320 gun sleeve effectively fortifies the gun tube with an inside sleeve added so the M320 tube ends up much stronger and able to fire at higher pressures and this can provide even higher velocities achievable for 40 mm fired projectiles. Higher velocities can therefore lead to longer ranges a desirable result. Of further added benefit the M320 gun sleeve can be used again and again and is also easily removed from the M320 gun after firing. In government testing twenty M320 sleeves were reloaded and re fired five or more times. All sleeves were easily removed from the M320 after firing. M320 sleeves can be made longer than the M320 gun tube s length to provide even higher velocities due to a longer effective barrel during firing stage for the same gun pressures. The M320 gun sleeve has been seen to allow for extended range of 40 mm ammunition by more than 50 . Velocity has doubled out to 150 meters per second. Without this invention projectiles that are designed for high rates of spin would have required expensive flutes on shape charge liners inside the projectile in order to function properly. Since the M320 gun sleeve allows a projectile to exit without any spin at all there is no need for flutes to be placed on any shape charge liners. Moreover flutes on shape charge liners are difficult to manufacture as well as being expensive.

The many benefits of this invention include the following. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case provides no spin to the projectile in a rifled gun tube. This allows for guided munitions to be fired from a rifled tube. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case is easily removed from the M320 after firing and can be reused. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case allows for higher pressures and therefore higher velocities for the 40 mm projectiles in the M320. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case allows for a new generation of 40 mm ammunition to be designed with extended range guidance with more accurate lethality. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case can be longer than the M320 tube and therefore provide more efficient use of propellant load to provide higher velocity and extended range without increased pressures in the gun tube. The gun sleeve cartridge case can be lengthened hence to provide more velocity hence to provide enhanced range yet without appreciably increased recoil to the shooter when firing the launcher as might have been feared with a longer tube because the impulse caused by the amount of burning propellant is not changed even though the length of the gun sleeve cartridge case may have been increased. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case is applicable to other rifled medium caliber and shoulder launched weapons and can be used to provide no spin for guided projectiles higher velocity and extended range without increased pressures in the gun tube. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case allows for 40 mm rounds to be launched without spin and therefore the explosive shape charge jet liner does not require the use of costly and difficult to manufacture flutes on the shape charge liner as compared to rifled spinning projectiles with shape charge liners. The 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case allows for extended range of 40 mm ammunition by 50 or greater. The closure cup and case base plug have a new design which locks the propellant in closure cup and case base plug so that it cannot get into the 40 mm M320 gun sleeve cartridge case projectile area before firing.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

