---

title: System and method of storing and accessing musical performance on remote server
abstract: A musical system uses a musical instrument with a first communication link and music related accessory with a second communication link for transmitting and receiving the audio signal and control data. A controller within the musical instrument or music related accessory is coupled to the first communication link for receiving control data to control operation of the musical instrument and transmitting an audio signal originating from the musical instrument through the first communication link as a cloud storage recording on a server connected to the first communication link. The cloud storage recording is initiated by detecting motion of the musical instrument or presence of the audio signal. The cloud storage recording is terminated a predetermined period of time after detecting no motion of the musical instrument or absence of the audio signal. A user control interface configures the musical instrument and the music related accessory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373313&OS=09373313&RS=09373313
owner: Fender Musical Instruments Corporation
number: 09373313
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
The present invention relates to musical instruments and more particularly to a system and method of storing and accessing a musical performance on a remote storage server over a network.

Musical instruments have always been very popular in society providing entertainment social interaction self expression and a business and source of livelihood for many people. Musical instruments and related accessories are used by professional and amateur musicians to generate alter transmit and reproduce audio signals. Common musical instruments include an electric guitar bass guitar violin horn brass drums wind instrument string instrument piano organ electric keyboard and percussions. The audio signal from the musical instrument is typically an analog signal containing a progression of values within a continuous range. The audio signal can also be digital in nature as a series of binary one or zero values. The musical instrument is often used in conjunction with related musical accessories such as microphones audio amplifiers speakers mixers synthesizers samplers effects pedals public address systems digital recorders and similar devices to capture alter combine store play back and reproduce sound from digital or analog audio signals originating from the musical instrument.

Musicians often make impromptu use of musical instruments. Accordingly a musician will often pick up and play an instrument without advanced planning or intent. The impromptu session can happen anytime the musician has an instrument such as after a performance at a club relaxing at home in the evening at work during a lunch break or while drinking coffee at a cafe. An impromptu session can include multiple musicians and multiple instruments. The impromptu session often results in the creation of novel compositions that have purpose or value or are otherwise useful to the musician. The compositions will be lost if the musician was not prepared or not able to record the composition at the time of the impromptu session either for lack of a medium to record the composition on or lack of time to make the recording. Also the actions required to record the composition can interfere with the creative process. In any case the circumstances may not afford the opportunity to record a performance at a planned or unplanned session even when recording capability is available.

A need exists to record a musical composition originating from use of a musical instrument. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention is a communication network for recording a musical performance comprising a musical instrument including a first communication link disposed on the musical instrument. An audio amplifier includes a second communication link disposed on the audio amplifier. An access point routes an audio signal and control data between the musical instrument and audio amplifier through the first communication link and second communication link. A musical performance originating from the musical instrument is detected and transmitted through the access point as a cloud storage recording.

In another embodiment the present invention is a musical system comprising a musical instrument and first communication link disposed on the musical instrument. A controller is coupled to the first communication link for receiving control data to control operation of the musical instrument and transmitting an audio signal originating from the musical instrument through the first communication link as a cloud storage recording.

In another embodiment the present invention is a musical system comprising a musical related instrument including a communication link disposed on the musical related instrument. A controller is coupled for receiving control data from the communication link to control operation of the musical related instrument and transmitting an audio signal from the musical related instrument through the communication link as a cloud storage recording.

In another embodiment the present invention is a method of recording a musical performance comprising the steps of providing a musical related instrument including a communication link disposed on the musical related instrument and transmitting data from the musical related instrument through the communication link as a cloud storage recording.

The present invention is described in one or more embodiments in the following description with reference to the figures in which like numerals represent the same or similar elements. While the invention is described in terms of the best mode for achieving the invention s objectives it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents as supported by the following disclosure and drawings.

Electronic data is commonly stored on a computer system. The data can be stored on a local hard drive or on a server within a local area network or remotely on one or more external servers outside the local area network. The remote storage is sometimes referred to as cloud storage as the user may not know where the data physically resides but knows how to access the data by virtual address through a network connection e.g. the Internet. The cloud storage is managed by a company or public service agency and can physically exist in any state or country. Thus the user in one location with access to a wired or wireless network connection can create modify retrieve and manage data stored on a server at a different location without incurring the cost associated with acquiring and maintaining large local data storage resources. The cloud storage service maintains the availability integrity security and backup of the data typically for a nominal fee to the user.

Cloud storage is implemented using a plurality of servers connected over a public or private network each server containing a plurality of mass storage devices. The user of cloud storage accesses data through a virtual location such as a universal resource locator URL which the cloud storage system translates into one or more physical locations within storage devices. The user of cloud storage typically share all or part of the underlying implementation of the cloud storage with other users. Because the underlying implementation of the storage is shared by many users the cost per unit of storage i.e. the cost per gigabyte can be substantially lower than for dedicated local mass storage. Redundant data storage automatic backup versioning and journaled filesystems can be provided to users who would otherwise find such features prohibitively expensive or complicated to administer. A user of cloud storage can keep the data private or share selected data with one or more other users.

Electronic system further includes cellular base station connected to communication network through bi directional communication link in a hard wired or wireless configuration. Communication link includes a coaxial cable Ethernet cable twisted pair cable telephone line waveguide microwave link fiber optic cable power line communication link line of sight optical link satellite link or other wired or wireless communication link. Cellular base station uses radio waves to communicate voice and data with cellular devices and provides wireless access to communication network for authorized devices. The radio frequencies used by cellular base station can include the 850 MHz 900 MHz 1700 MHz 1800 MHz 1900 MHz 2000 MHz and 2100 MHz bands. Cellular base station employs one or more of the universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS high speed downlink packet access HSDPA high speed uplink packet access HSUPA evolved high speed packet access HSPA code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA global system for mobile communications GSM GSM EDGE integrated digital enhanced network iDEN time division synchronous code division multiple access TD SCDMA LTE orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM flash OFDM IEEE 802.16e WiMAX or other wireless communication protocols over 3G and 4G networks. Cellular base station can include a cell tower. Alternatively cellular base station can be a microcell picocell or femtocell i.e. a smaller low powered cellular base station designed to provide cellular service in limited areas such as a single building or residence.

Cellular device includes cellular phones smartphones tablet computers laptop computers Wi Fi hotspots and other similar devices. The radio frequencies used by cellular device can include the 850 MHz 900 MHz 1700 MHz 1800 MHz 1900 MHz 2000 MHz and 2100 MHz bands. Cellular device employs one or more of the UMTS HSDPA HSUPA HSPA CDMA WCDMA GSM GSM EDGE iDEN TD SCDMA LTE WiMAX OFDM flash OFDM or other wireless communication protocols over 3G and 4G networks. Cellular device communicates with cellular base station over one or more of the frequency bands and wireless communication protocols supported by both the cellular device and the cellular base station. Cellular device uses the connectivity provided by cellular base station to perform tasks such as audio and or video communications electronic mail download and upload short message service SMS messaging browsing the world wide web downloading software applications apps and downloading firmware and software updates among other tasks. Cellular device includes unique identifier information typically an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI in a replaceable subscriber identity module SIM card which determines which cellular base stations and services the cellular device can use.

Wireless access point WAP is connected to communication network through bi directional communication link in a hard wired or wireless configuration. Communication link includes a coaxial cable Ethernet cable twisted pair cable telephone line waveguide microwave link fiber optic cable power line communication link line of sight optical link satellite link or other wired or wireless communication link. Alternatively communication link can be a cellular radio link to cellular base station . WAP uses radio waves to communicate data with wireless devices and provides wireless access to communication network for authorized devices. Radio frequencies used by WAP include the 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands. WAP employs one or more of the IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g IEEE 802.11n collectively Wi Fi protocols or other wireless communication protocols. WAP can also employ security protocols such as IEEE 802.11i including Wi Fi protected access WPA and Wi Fi protected access II WPA2 to enhance security and privacy. WAP and devices that connect to the WAP using the wireless communication protocols form an infrastructure mode WLAN. WAP includes a unique media access control MAC address that distinguishes WAP from other devices. In one embodiment WAP is a laptop or desktop computer using a wireless network interface controller WNIC and software enabled access point SoftAP software.

WAP also includes a router firewall DHCP host print server and storage server. A router uses hardware and software to direct the transmission of communications between networks or parts of the network. A firewall includes hardware and software that determines whether selected types of network communication are allowed or blocked and whether communication with selected locations on a local or remote network are allowed or blocked. A DHCP host includes hardware and or software that assigns IP addresses or similar locally unique identifiers to devices connected to a network. A print server includes hardware and software that makes printing services available for use by devices on the network. A storage server includes hardware and software that makes persistent data storage such as a hard disk drive HDD solid state disk drive SSD optical drive magneto optical drive tape drive or USB flash drive available for use by devices on the network.

Wi Fi device includes laptop computers desktop computers tablet computers server computers smartphones cameras game consoles televisions and audio systems in mobile and fixed environments. Wi Fi device uses frequencies including the 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands and employs one or more of the Wi Fi or other wireless communication protocols. Wi Fi device employs security protocols such as WPA and or WPA2 to enhance security and privacy. Wi Fi device uses the connectivity provided by WAP to perform audio and video applications download and upload data browse the web download apps play music and download firmware and software updates. Wi Fi device includes a unique MAC address that distinguishes Wi Fi device from other devices connected to WAP .

Personal area network PAN master device includes desktop computers laptop computers audio systems and smartphones. PAN master device is connected to communication network through bi directional communication link in a hard wired or wireless configuration. Communication link includes a coaxial cable Ethernet cable twisted pair cable telephone line waveguide microwave link fiber optic cable power line communication link line of sight optical link satellite link or other wired or wireless communication link. Alternatively communication link can be a cellular radio link to cellular base station or a Wi Fi link to WAP . PAN master device uses radio waves to communicate with wireless devices. The radio frequencies used by PAN master device can include the 868 MHZ 915 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands or ultra wide band UWB frequencies e.g. 9 GHz. PAN master device employs one or more of the Bluetooth zigbee IEEE 802.15.3 ECMA 368 or similar PAN protocols including the pairing link management service discovery and security protocols.

PAN slave device includes headsets headphones computer mice computer keyboards printers remote controls game controllers and other such devices. PAN slave device uses radio frequencies including the 868 MHZ 915 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands or UWB frequencies and employs one or more of the bluetooth zigbee IEEE 802.15.3 ECMA 368 or similar PAN protocols including the pairing link management service discovery and security protocols. PAN slave device uses the connectivity provided by PAN master device to exchange commands and data with the PAN master device.

Computer servers connect to communication network through bi directional communication links in a hard wired or wireless configuration. Computer servers include a plurality of mass storage devices or arrays such as HDD SSD optical drives magneto optical drives tape drives or USB flash drives. Communication link includes a coaxial cable Ethernet cable twisted pair cable telephone line waveguide microwave link fiber optic cable power line communication link line of sight optical link satellite link or other wired or wireless communication link. Servers provide file access database web access mail backup print proxy and application services. File servers provide data read write and management capabilities to devices connected to communication network using protocols such as the hypertext transmission protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP secure FTP SFTP network file system NFS common internet file system CIFS apple filing protocol AFP andrew file system AFS iSCSI and fibre channel over IP FCIP . Database servers provide the ability to query and modify one or more databases hosted by the server to devices connected to communication network using a language such as structured query language SQL . Web servers allow devices on communication network to interact using HTTP with web content hosted by the server and implemented in languages such as hypertext markup language HTML javascript cascading style sheets CSS and PHP hypertext preprocessor PHP . Mail servers provide electronic mail send receive and routing services to devices connected to communication network using protocols such as simple network mail protocol SNMP post office protocol 3 POP3 internet message access protocol IMAP and messaging application programming interface MAPI . Catalog servers provide devices connected to communication network with the ability to search for information in other servers on communication network . Backup servers provide data backup and restore capabilities to devices connected to communication network . Print servers provide remote printing capabilities to devices connected to communication network . Proxy servers serve as intermediaries between other servers and devices connected to communication network in order to provide security anonymity usage restrictions bypassing of censorship or other functions. Application servers provide devices connected to communication network with the ability to execute on the server one or more applications provided on the server.

In the present embodiment WAP communicates with musical instruments MI and depicted as an electric guitar trumpet and electric keyboard respectively. Other musical instruments that can be connected to WAP include a bass guitar violin brass drums wind instrument string instrument piano organ percussions keyboard synthesizer and microphone. For MI that emit sound waves directly a microphone or other sound transducer attached to or disposed in the vicinity of the MI converts the sound waves to electrical signals such as cone mounted to trumpet . WAP further communicates with laptop computer mobile communication device audio amplifier speaker effects pedal display monitor and camera . MI and accessories each include an internal or external wireless transceiver and controller to send and receive analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data through WAP between and among the devices as well as communication network cellular device Wi Fi device PAN master device PAN slave device and servers . In particular MI and accessories are capable of transmitting and receiving audio signals video signals control signals and other data through WAP and communication network to cloud storage implemented on servers .

Consider an example where one or more users play a musical composition on MI . The user may be on stage in a recording studio in a home in a coffee shop in the park in a motor vehicle or any other location with wired or wireless access to electronic system and communication network . The user wants to manually or automatically configure MI and musical related accessories and then record the play of the musical composition. The configuration data of MI corresponding to the musical composition is stored on laptop computer mobile communication device or internal memory of the MI. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer or mobile communication device through WAP to MI . For MI the configuration data selects one or more pickups on the guitar as the source of the audio signal as well as the volume and tonal qualities of the audio signal transmitted to an output jack. For MI the configuration data selects sensitivity frequency conversion settings volume and tone of cone . For MI the configuration data sets the volume balance sequencing tempo mixer tone effects MIDI interface and synthesizer. The configuration data of audio amplifier speaker effects pedal and camera is also stored on laptop computer mobile communication device or internal memory of the accessory. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer or mobile communication device through WAP to audio amplifier speaker effects pedal and camera as well as other electronic accessories within wireless communication network . For audio amplifier the configuration data sets the amplification volume gain filtering tone equalization sound effects bass treble midrange reverb dwell reverb mix vibrato speed and vibrato intensity. For speaker the configuration data sets the volume and special effects. For effects pedal the configuration data sets the one or more sound effects.

Once MI and accessories are configured the user begins to play the musical composition. The audio signals generated from MI are transmitted through WAP to audio amplifier which performs the signal processing of the audio signal according to the configuration data. The audio signal can also be speech or voice data from a microphone. The configuration of MI and audio amplifier can be updated at any time during the play of the musical composition. The configuration data is transmitted to devices to change the signal processing of the audio signal in realtime. The user can modify the signal processing function during play by pressing on effects pedal to introduce a sound effect. The user operation on effects pedal is transmitted through WAP to audio amplifier which implements on the user operated sound effects. Other electronic accessories e.g. a synthesizer can also be introduced into the signal processing audio amplifier through WAP . The output signal of audio amplifier is transmitted through WAP to speaker . In some cases speaker handles the power necessary to reproduce the sound. In other cases audio amplifier can be connected to speaker by audio cable to deliver the necessary power to reproduce the sound.

In addition the analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and musical related accessories are transmitted through WAP and stored on laptop computer cell phone or mobile communication device PAN master device or servers as a recording of the play of the musical composition. The recording can be made at any time and any place with wired or wireless access to electronic system or communication network without prior preparation e.g. for an impromptu playing session. The destination of the audio signals is selected with PAN master device laptop computer or mobile communication device . For example the user selects the destination of the recording as cloud servers . As the user plays the musical composition the audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and accessories are transmitted through WAP in realtime and stored on servers . The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as musical instrument digital interface MIDI data and stored on servers . The recording stored on cloud servers is available for later access by the user or other person authorized to access the recording.

The user may enable the recording of the musical composition by a physical act such as pressing a start recording button on MI or accessories playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction start recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be enabled upon detection of motion handling or other user initiated activity associated with MI or detection of audio signals being generated by MI . The user initiated activity can be handling an electric guitar strumming the strings of a bass pressing keys on the keyboard moving the slide of a trumpet and striking a drum. The presence of user initiated activity or detection of the audio signal indicates that music is being played and initiates the recording. Alternatively the recording of the musical composition can be enabled during a certain time of day 8 am to 8 pm or by location detection e.g. start recording when the user enters the recording studio as detected by a global position system GPS within MI . The recording can be enabled continuously 24 7 whether or not audio signals are being generated. The user can retrieve the recording from servers and listen to the musical composition through speakers PAN slave device laptop computer or mobile communication device . The recording as stored on servers memorializes the musical composition for future access and use.

MI or accessories can include a mark button or indicator located on the MI or accessory. The user presses the mark button to flag a specific portion or segment of the recorded data at any point in time of playing the musical composition for later review. The mark flags are searchable on servers for ready access.

The audio signal is stored on servers as a cloud storage recording. The cloud storage recording can also include video data and control data. The file name for the cloud storage recording can be automatically assigned or set by the user. Servers provide a convenient medium to search edit share produce or publish the cloud recording. The user can search for a particular cloud storage recording by user name time and date instrument accessory settings tempo mark flags and other metadata. For example the user can search for a guitar recording made in the last week with Latin tempo. The user can edit the cloud storage recording e.g. by mixing in additional sound effects. The user can make the cloud storage recording available to fellow musicians friends fans and business associates as needed. The cloud storage recording can track performance metrics such as number of hours logged. The GPS capability allows the user to determine the physical location of MI if necessary and provide new owner registration.

Controller controls routing of audio signals video signals control signals and other data through MI . Controller includes one or more processors volatile memories non volatile memories control logic and processing interconnect busses firmware and software to implement the requisite control function. Volatile memory includes latches registers cache memories static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM . Non volatile memory includes read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM serial EPROM magneto resistive random access memory MRAM ferro electric RAM F RAM phase change RAM PRAM and flash memory. Control logic and processing includes programmable digital input and output ports universal synchronous asynchronous receiver transmitter USARTs digital to analog converters DAC analog to digital converters ADC display controllers keyboard controllers universal serial bus USB controllers I2C controllers network interface controllers NICs and other network communication circuits. Controller can also include signal processors accelerators or other specialized circuits for functions such as signal compression filtering noise reduction and encryption. In one embodiment controller is implemented as a web server.

The control signals and other data received from WAP are stored in configuration memory . The audio signals are generated by the user playing MI and output from pickup . MI may have multiple pickups each with a different response to the string motion. The configuration data selects and enables one or more pickups to convert string motion to the audio signals. Signal processing and volume modify digital and analog audio signals. The control signals and other data stored in configuration memory set the operational state of pickup signal processing and volume . The audio output signal of volume is routed to controller which transmits the audio signals through wireless transceiver and antenna to WAP . The audio signals continue to the designated destination e.g. audio amplifier laptop computer mobile communication device PAN master device or servers .

Detection block detects when MI is in use by motion presence of audio signals or other user initiated activity. In one embodiment detection block monitors for non zero audio signals from pickup or volume . The audio signal can be detected with signal amplifier compensator frequency filter noise filter or impedance matching circuit. Alternatively detection block includes an accelerometer inclinometer touch sensor strain gauge switch motion detector optical sensor or microphone to detect user initiated activity associated with MI . For example an accelerometer can sense movement of MI a capacitive resistive electromagnetic or acoustic touch sensor can sense a user contact with a portion of the MI a strain gauge switch or opto interrupter can detect the movement of the strings on MI or when the MI is being supported by a strap or stand a microphone can detect acoustic vibrations in the air or in a surface of MI . In one embodiment a motion detector or opto interrupter is placed under the strings of MI to detect the string motion indicating playing action. Upon detection of playing of the musical composition detection block sends a start recording signal through controller wireless transceiver antenna WAP and communication network to servers using the WPS Wi Fi Direct or another wired or wireless setup protocol. Servers begin storing the audio signals video signals control signals and other data on mass storage arrays. The audio signal is transmitted over a secure connection through controller wireless transceiver antenna WAP and communication network and recorded on cloud servers with associated timestamps tags and identifiers. The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as MIDI data and stored on servers .

Servers continue recording until a stop recording signal is received recording time out or the recording is otherwise disabled. The recording can be disabled by a physical act such as pressing a stop recording button on MI or accessories playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction stop recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be disabled after a predetermined period of time or upon detection of the absence of motion of MI or detection of no audio signals being generated by MI for a predetermined period of time. For example if MI is idle for say 15 minutes either in terms of physical motion or no audio signal then the recording is discontinued. The absence of motion of MI or no audio signal indicates that music is no longer being played and the recording is suspended. Alternatively the recording of the musical composition can be disabled during a certain time of day 8 pm to 8 am or by location detection e.g. stop recording when the user leaves the recording studio as detected by GPS within MI .

The control signals and other data stored in configuration memory set the operational state of filter effects user defined modules and amplification block . In one embodiment the configuration data sets the operational state of various electronic amplifiers DAC ADC multiplexers memory and registers to control the signal processing within audio amplifier . Controller may set the operational value or state of a control servomotor controlled potentiometer servomotor controlled variable capacitor amplifier with electronically controlled gain or an electronically controlled variable resistor capacitor or inductor. Controller may set the operational value or state of a stepper motor or ultrasonic motor mechanically coupled to and capable of rotating a volume tone or effect control knob electronically programmable power supply adapted to provide a bias voltage to tubes or mechanical or solid state relay controlling the flow of power to audio amplifier . Alternatively the operational state of filter effects user defined modules and amplification block can be set manually through front panel .

Detection block detects when audio amplifier is operational by the presence of audio signals. In one embodiment detection block monitors for non zero audio signals from MI . The audio signal can be detected with a signal amplifier compensator frequency filter noise filter or impedance matching circuit. Upon detection of the audio signal detection block sends a start recording signal through controller wireless transceiver antenna WAP and communication network to servers . Servers begin storing the audio signals video signals control signals and other data on mass storage arrays. Each note or chord played on MI is processed through audio amplifier as configured by controller and stored in configuration memory to generate an audio output signal of signal processing section . The post signal processing audio output signal of signal processing section is routed to controller and transmitted through wireless transceiver and antenna to WAP using the WPS Wi Fi Direct or another wired or wireless setup protocol. The post signal processing audio signals continue to the next musical related accessory e.g. speaker or other accessory . The post signal processing audio signals is also transmitted over a secure connection through communication network and recorded on cloud servers with associated timestamps tags and identifiers. The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as MIDI data and stored on servers .

Display shows the present state of controller and configuration memory with the operational state of signal processing section as well as the recording status. Controller can also read the present state of configuration memory with the operational state of signal processing section and recording status for transmission through wireless transceiver antenna and WAP for storage or display on PAN master device laptop computer and mobile communication device .

Servers continue recording until a stop recording signal is received recording time out or the recording is otherwise disabled. The recording of the musical composition can be disabled after a predetermined period of time or upon detection of no audio signals being generated by audio amplifier for a predetermined period of time. For example if audio amplifier is idle for say 15 minutes then the recording is discontinued. The absence of the audio signal indicates that music is no longer being played and the recording is suspended.

Detection block detects when MI is in use by motion of keys presence of audio signals or other user initiated activity. In one embodiment detection block monitors for non zero audio signals from tone generator or tone . The audio signal can be detected with signal amplifier compensator frequency filter noise filter or impedance matching circuit. Alternatively detection block includes an accelerometer inclinometer touch sensor strain gauge switch motion detector optical sensor or microphone to detect user initiated activity associated with MI . For example an accelerometer can sense movement of MI a capacitive resistive electromagnetic or acoustic touch sensor can sense a user contact with a portion of the MI a strain gauge switch or opto interrupter can detect the movement of keys on MI a microphone can detect acoustic vibrations in the air or in a surface of MI . In one embodiment a motion detector or opto interrupter is placed under keys to detect the motion indicating playing action. Upon detection of playing of the musical composition detection block sends a start recording signal through controller wireless transceiver antenna WAP and communication network to servers using the WPS Wi Fi Direct or another wired or wireless setup protocol. Servers begin storing the audio signals video signals control signals and other data on mass storage arrays. The audio signal is transmitted over a secure connection through controller wireless transceiver antenna WAP and communication network and recorded on cloud servers with associated timestamps tags and identifiers. The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as MIDI data and stored on servers .

Servers continue recording until a stop recording signal is received recording time out or the recording is otherwise disabled. The recording can be disabled by a physical act such as pressing a stop recording button on MI or accessories playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction stop recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be disabled after a predetermined period of time or upon detection of the absence of motion of keys or detection of no audio signals being generated by MI for a predetermined period of time. For example if MI is idle for say 15 minutes either in terms of physical motion or no audio signal then the recording is discontinued. The absence of user initiated activity associated with MI or no audio signal indicates that music is no longer being played and the recording is suspended.

Web servers are configured by user control interface see and communicate with each other through WAP over wireless communication network or electronic system . User control interface can be implemented using a web browser with PAN master device laptop computer or mobile communication device to provide a human interface to web servers e.g. using a keypad keyboard mouse trackball joystick touchpad touchscreen and voice recognition system connected to a serial port USB MIDI bluetooth zigBee Wi Fi or infrared connection of the user control interface.

Web servers are configured through user control interface so that each device can share data between MI related accessories PAN master device and servers through communication network . The shared data includes presets files media notation playlists device firmware upgrades and device configuration data. Musical performances conducted with MI and related accessories can be stored on PAN master device laptop computer mobile communication device and servers . Streaming audio and streaming video can be downloaded from PAN master device laptop computer mobile communication device and servers through communication network and executed on MI and related accessories . The streaming audio and streaming video is useful for live and pre recorded performances lessons virtual performance and social jam sessions which can be presented on display monitor . Camera can record the playing sessions as video signals.

In the present embodiment cellular base station communicates with MI as well as other musical instruments such as a violin brass drums wind instrument string instrument piano organ percussions keyboard synthesizer and microphone. Some musical instruments require a microphone or other sound transducer such as cone mounted to trumpet to convert sound waves to electrical signals. Cellular base station further communicates with laptop computer mobile communication device audio amplifier speaker effects pedal display monitor and camera . MI and accessories each include an internal or external wireless transceiver and controller to send and receive analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data through cellular base station between and among the devices as well as communication network cellular device Wi Fi device PAN master device PAN slave device and servers . In particular MI and accessories are capable of transmitting and receiving audio signals video signals control signals and other data through cellular base station and communication network to cloud storage implemented on servers .

Consider an example where one or more users play a musical composition on MI . The user may be on stage in a recording studio in a home in a coffee shop in the park in a motor vehicle or any other location with wired or wireless access to cellular base station . The user wants to manually or automatically configure MI and musical related accessories and then record the play of the musical composition. The configuration data of MI corresponding to the musical composition is stored on laptop computer mobile communication device or internal memory of the MI. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer or mobile communication device through cellular base station to MI . For MI the configuration data selects one or more pickups on the guitar as the source of the audio signal as well as the volume and tonal qualities of the audio signal transmitted to an output jack. For MI the configuration data selects sensitivity frequency conversion settings volume and tone of cone . For MI the configuration data sets the volume balance sequencing tempo mixer tone effects MIDI interface and synthesizer. The configuration data of audio amplifier speaker effects pedal and camera is also stored on laptop computer mobile communication device or internal memory of the accessory. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer or mobile communication device through cellular base station to audio amplifier speaker effects pedal and camera as well as other electronic accessories within communication network . For audio amplifier the configuration data sets the amplification volume gain filtering tone equalization sound effects bass treble midrange reverb dwell reverb mix vibrato speed and vibrato intensity. For speaker the configuration data sets the volume and special effects. For effects pedal the configuration data sets the one or more sound effects.

Once MI and accessories are configured the user begins to play the musical composition. The audio signals generated from MI are transmitted through cellular base station to audio amplifier which performs the signal processing of the audio signal according to the configuration data. The audio signal can also be speech or voice data from a microphone. The configuration of MI and audio amplifier can be updated at any time during the play of the musical composition. The configuration data is transmitted to devices to change the signal processing of the audio signal in realtime. The user can modify the signal processing function during play by pressing on effects pedal to introduce a sound effect. The user operation on effects pedal is transmitted through cellular base station to audio amplifier which implements on the user operated sound effects. Other electronic accessories e.g. a synthesizer can also be introduced into the signal processing audio amplifier through cellular base station . The output signal of audio amplifier is transmitted through cellular base station to speaker . In some cases speaker handles the power necessary to reproduce the sound. In other cases audio amplifier can be connected to speaker by audio cable to deliver the necessary power to reproduce the sound.

In addition the analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and musical related accessories are transmitted through cellular base station and stored on laptop computer mobile communication device PAN master device or servers as a recording of the play of the musical composition. The recording can be made at any time and any place with wired or wireless access to electronic system or communication network without prior preparation e.g. for an impromptu playing session. The destination of the audio signals is selected with PAN master device laptop computer or mobile communication device . For example the user selects the destination of the recording as cloud servers . As the user plays the musical composition the audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and accessories are transmitted through cellular base station in realtime and stored on servers . The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as MIDI data and stored on servers . The recording stored on cloud servers is available for later access by the user or other person authorized to access the recording.

The user may enable the recording of the musical composition by a physical act such as pressing a start recording button on MI or accessories playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction start recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be enabled upon detection of motion handling or other user initiated activity associated with MI or detection of audio signals being generated by MI . The user initiated activity can be handling an electric guitar strumming the strings of a bass pressing keys on the keyboard moving the slide of a trumpet and striking a drum. The presence of user initiated activity or detection of the audio signal indicates that music is being played and initiates the recording. Alternatively the recording of the musical composition can be enabled during a certain time of day 8 am to 8 pm or by location detection i.e. start recording when the user enters the recording studio as detected by GPS within MI . The recording can be enabled continuously 24 7 whether or not audio signals are being generated. The user can retrieve the recording from servers and listen to the musical composition through speakers PAN slave device laptop computer or mobile communication device . The recording as stored on servers memorializes the musical composition for future access and use.

In the present embodiment MI depicted as an electric guitar communicates with audio amplifier through cabling and and switch . Audio amplifier communicates with speaker and laptop computer through cabling and and switch . MI audio amplifier and speaker can be configured through switch with data from laptop computer . The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer through switch to MI . The configuration data selects one or more pickups on the guitar as the source of the audio signal as well as the volume and tonal qualities of the audio signal transmitted to an output jack. The configuration data of audio amplifier and speaker is also stored on laptop computer or internal memory of the accessory. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer through switch to audio amplifier and speaker as well as other electronic accessories within communication network . For audio amplifier the configuration data sets the amplification volume gain filtering tone equalization sound effects bass treble midrange reverb dwell reverb mix vibrato speed and vibrato intensity. For speaker the configuration data sets the volume and special effects.

Once MI and accessories and are configured the user begins to play the musical composition. The audio signals generated from MI are transmitted through switch to audio amplifier which performs the signal processing of the audio signal according to the configuration data. The audio signal can also be voice data from a microphone. The configuration of MI and audio amplifier can be updated at any time during the play of the musical composition. The configuration data is transmitted to devices and to change the signal processing of the audio signal in realtime. The output signal of audio amplifier is transmitted through switch to speaker . In some cases speaker handles the power necessary to reproduce the sound. In other cases audio amplifier can be connected to speaker by audio cable to deliver the necessary power to reproduce the sound.

In addition the analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and musical related accessories and are transmitted through switch and stored on laptop or servers as a recording of the play of the musical composition. The recording can be made at any time and any place with wired or wireless access to electronic system or communication network without prior preparation e.g. for an impromptu playing session. The destination of the audio signals is selected with laptop computer . For example the user selects the destination of the recording as cloud servers . As the user plays the musical composition the audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and accessories and are transmitted through switch in realtime and stored on servers . The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as MIDI data and stored on servers . The recording stored on cloud server is available for later access by the user or other person authorized to access the recording.

The user may enable the recording of the musical composition by a physical act such as pressing a start recording button on MI or accessories and playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction start recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be enabled upon detection of motion handling or other user initiated activity associated with MI or detection of audio signals being generated by MI . The presence of user initiated activity or detection of the audio signal indicates that music is being played and initiates the recording. The recording can be enabled continuously 24 7 whether or not audio signals are being generated. The user can retrieve the recording from servers and listen to the musical composition through speakers . The recording as stored on servers memorializes the musical composition for future access and use.

Consider an example where one or more users play a musical composition on MI . The configuration data of MI is stored on laptop computer mobile communication device or internal memory of the MI. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer or mobile communication device through communication links to MI . For MI the configuration data selects one or more pickups on the guitar as the source of the audio signal as well as the volume and tonal qualities of the audio signal transmitted to an output jack. For MI the configuration data selects sensitivity frequency conversion settings volume and tone of cone . For MI the configuration data sets the volume balance sequencing tempo mixer tone effects MIDI interface and synthesizer. The configuration data of audio amplifier speaker effects pedal and camera is also stored on laptop computer mobile communication device or internal memory of the accessory. The configuration data for the musical composition is transmitted from laptop computer or mobile communication device through communication links to audio amplifier speaker effects pedal and camera as well as other electronic accessories within communication network . For audio amplifier the configuration data sets the amplification volume gain filtering tone equalization sound effects bass treble midrange reverb dwell reverb mix vibrato speed and vibrato intensity. For speaker the configuration data sets the volume and special effects. For effects pedal the configuration data sets the one or more sound effects.

Once MI and accessories are configured the user begins to play the musical composition. The audio signals generated from MI are transmitted through communication links to audio amplifier which performs the signal processing according to the configuration data. The audio signal can also be voice data from a microphone. The configuration of MI and audio amplifier can be updated at any time during the play of the musical composition according the configuration data set by user control interface . The configuration data is transmitted to devices to change the signal processing of the audio signal in realtime. The user can modify the signal processing function during play by pressing on effects pedal to introduce a sound effect. The user operation on effects pedal is transmitted through communication links to audio amplifier which implements on the user operated sound effects. Other electronic accessories e.g. a synthesizer can also be introduced into the signal processing audio amplifier through communication links . The output signal of audio amplifier is transmitted through communication links to speaker .

In addition the analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and musical related accessories are transmitted through communication links and stored on laptop computer mobile communication device PAN master device or servers as a recording of the play of the musical composition. The recording can be made at any time and any place with wired or wireless access to electronic system or communication network without prior preparation e.g. for an impromptu playing session. The destination of the audio signals is selected with PAN master device laptop computer or mobile communication device . For example the user selects the destination of the recording as cloud servers . As the user plays the musical composition the audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and accessories are transmitted through communication links in realtime and stored on servers . The audio signals video signals control signals and other data can be formatted as MIDI data and stored on servers . The recording stored on cloud servers is available for later access by the user or other person authorized to access the recording.

The user may enable the recording of the musical composition by a physical act such as pressing a start recording button on MI or accessories playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction start recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be enabled upon detection of motion handling or other user initiated activity associated with MI or detection of audio signals being generated by MI . The user initiated activity can be handling an electric guitar strumming the strings of a bass pressing keys on the keyboard moving the slide of a trumpet and striking a drum. The presence of user initiated activity or detection of the audio signal indicates that music is being played and initiates the recording. Alternatively the recording of the musical composition can be enabled during a certain time of day 8 am to 8 pm or by location detection i.e. start recording when the user enters the recording studio as detected by GPS within MI . The recording can be enabled continuously 24 7 whether or not audio signals are being generated. The user can retrieve the recording from servers and listen to the musical composition through speakers PAN slave device laptop computer or mobile communication device . The recording as stored on servers memorializes the musical composition for future access and use.

Consider an example of setting up and performing one or more musical compositions in a wireless configuration on stage in . Continuing with the wireless network configuration of MI are made available on stage to users and . Audio amplifiers and speakers are positioned on stage . Effects pedals are placed near the feet of users . WAP and laptop computer are placed in the vicinity of stage . Note that there is no physical cabling to connect MI audio amplifiers speakers effects pedals and camera . Devices are detected through WAP and wirelessly connected and synced through web servers using zeroconf universal plug and play UPnP protocols Wi Fi direct or NFC communications. Users select for a given musical composition configuration data for each of devices using webpages and on laptop computer . The configuration data is transmitted wirelessly from laptop computer through WAP to the web server interface of devices . The control features of MI e.g. select pickup volume tone balance sequencing tempo mixer effects and MIDI interface are set in accordance with the musical composition. The control features of audio amplifiers speakers effects pedals and camera are set in accordance with the musical composition.

Users begin to play MI . The audio signals generated by MI are transmitted through WAP to audio amplifiers speakers effects pedals and camera to wirelessly interconnect control modify and reproduce the audible sounds. The musical composition is played without the use of physical cabling between devices . The configuration data can be continuously updated in devices during the performance according to the emphasis or nature of the musical composition. For example at the appropriate time the active pickup on MI can be changed volume can be adjusted different effects can be activated and the synthesizer can be engaged. The configuration of devices can be changed for the next musical composition. User can stop the performance e.g. during a practice session and modify the configuration data via webpages and on laptop computer to optimize or enhance the presentation of the performance. Musical instruments or related accessories not needed for a particular composition can be disabled or taken off line through WAP . Musical instruments or related accessories no longer needed can be readily removed from stage to reduce clutter and make space. WAP detects the absence of one or more devices and user control interface removes the devices from the network configuration. Other musical instrument or related accessory can be added to stage for the next composition. The additional devices are detected and configured automatically through WAP . The performance can be recorded and stored on servers or any other mass storage device in the network through communication network . At the end of the performance users simply remove devices from stage again without disconnecting and storing any physical cabling.

In addition the analog or digital audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and musical related accessories are transmitted through WAP and stored on laptop computer mobile communication device PAN master device or servers as a recording of the play of the musical composition. The recording can be made at any time and any place with wired or wireless access to electronic system or communication network without prior preparation e.g. for an impromptu playing session. The destination of the audio signals is selected with PAN master device laptop computer or mobile communication device . For example the user selects the destination of the recording as cloud servers . As the user plays the musical composition the audio signals video signals control signals and other data from MI and accessories are transmitted through WAP in realtime and stored on servers . The recording stored on cloud servers is available for later access by the user or other person authorized to access the recording.

The user may enable the recording of the musical composition by a physical act such as pressing a start recording button on MI or accessories playing a predetermined note or series of notes on MI voice activation with a verbal instruction start recording through a microphone or dedicated remote controller. The recording of the musical composition can be enabled upon detection of motion handling or other user initiated activity associated with MI or detection of audio signals being generated by MI . The user initiated activity can be handling an electric guitar strumming the strings of a bass pressing keys on the keyboard moving the slide of a trumpet and striking a drum. The presence of user initiated activity or detection of the audio signal indicates that music is being played and initiates the recording. Alternatively the recording of the musical composition can be enabled during a certain time of day 8 am to 8 pm or by location detection i.e. start recording when the user enters the recording studio as detected by GPS within MI . The recording can be enabled continuously 24 7 whether or not audio signals are being generated. The user can retrieve the recording from servers and listen to the musical composition through speakers PAN slave device laptop computer or mobile communication device . The recording as stored on servers memorializes the musical composition for future access and use.

In summary the communication network connects configures monitors and controls musical instruments and related accessories. The configuration data is transmitted over a wired or wireless connection from laptop computer or mobile communication device through WAP or cellular base station to devices . The audio signals between MI and musical related accessories is also transmitted through WAP or cellular base station . The user can connect MI and accessories and record a performance to cloud servers without conscious effort and without needing recording equipment or storage media at the location of the performance. The recording can be created without additional hardware without interfering with the creative process without requiring the musician to decide whether to record the performance and without complex configuration steps. The performance is timestamped to locate the recording of the performance. When the recorded performance includes timestamps for each note group of notes or small temporal interval the timestamps may be used to automatically combine one performance with one or more other simultaneous performances even if the other simultaneous performances or performances were created at a different location. Alternatively the musician can locate the recording based on the physical location of the performance or the musical instrument or musical instrument accessory used to create the performance. The recorded performance can be cryptographically signed by a trusted digital notarization service to create an authenticable record of the time place and creator of the performance. Subsequently the musician can download share delete or alter the recorded performance through the file management interface of cloud servers using a smartphone tablet computer laptop computer or desktop computer. The cloud servers offer virtually unlimited storage for recording performances and the recorded performances are protected against loss.

Accessing a recording on cloud servers may require a password or other credentials or be possible only from authorized devices. Cloud servers provide services for managing the recordings stored on the server such as renaming deleting versioning journaling mirroring backup and restore. Servers also provide search capabilities that permit a user to find a recording based on the time geographic location or device used to make the recording and may also provide management services such as cryptographic notarization of the instruments users location and time of a recording.

While one or more embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated in detail the skilled artisan will appreciate that modifications and adaptations to those embodiments may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

