---

title: Continuum-based selection of product choice
abstract: Systems, methods and computer program products for facilitating searching, obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs, including continuum-based inputs, and variable-sized visual representations are disclosed. In an embodiment, a user is presented with at least one continuum-based selector and at least one product choice visual representation. At least one input indicating user interest value in a product attribute is received and compared with stored result values of product choices. A unique weighing value indicating the relevancy of the product choice is generated for each product based on the comparison performed. The user is then presented with at least one product choice visual representation which may be modified based on the unique weighing value of the product choice.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495698&OS=09495698&RS=09495698
owner: 
number: 09495698
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120601
---
This application claims priority to pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 491 998 titled Process for Searching Obtaining and Displaying Personalized Recommendations Using Multi Positional Inputs and Variable Sized Images filed on Jun. 1 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference as to its entire contents.

The present disclosure relates to identifying and selecting products and more particularly to obtaining and displaying product choices using continuum based inputs.

Despite a glut of accessible information consumers do not have a quick easy and manageable way to obtain and evaluate information about products or services. Satisfactory selection of a product or service frequently requires many hours of research. Users must absorb and sort thousands of available website links lists reviews and often redundant or repetitive textual descriptions.

For example many consumers use the Internet to obtain and evaluate product or service information and to purchase products and services. Consumers seek to readily identify products and or services that will satisfy the consumer s desires. Ideally identification of a suitable product or service would be accomplished without repetitive searching however the binary nature of Boolean search terms is often ill equipped to capture the nuance of a consumer s desire during an initial search leading to repetitive searching. Additionally web search engines require users to generate relevant textual search terms ensure that they are spelled correctly especially if it is a proper name or more obscure term type or select those terms from a list submit a search query and then scan read and evaluate the best text based results from a list often containing thousands of options. This process can require significant time investment without guaranteeing that a satisfactory result will be found because the consumer must themselves initially direct the search with an imperfect idea of how to properly precisely classify desirable products or services.

In some industries consumers often utilize guides who present choices to the consumer. These initial choices may be based on the consumer s tastes location and other relevant factors. An example of a guide is a travel agent who considers a client s vacation destination tastes budget and visceral responses to initial questions and criteria presented. The travel agent then applies their knowledge and experience to the consumer s interests and presents the consumer with one or more choices based on the travel agent s analysis of the consumer s interests. This guided selection of a vacation destination may go through several iterations of choices being presented to the consumer before a vacation destination is ultimately selected.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the subject matter to be claimed nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the subject matter to be claimed.

This disclosure addresses the above described situation by providing methods computer program products and systems for facilitating searching obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations. Disclosed methods computer program products and systems are suitable for displaying product choices from many different industries. More specifically the present disclosure presents visual representations of product choices to a user. Product choices may be selected from categories including the following exemplary categories vacation destinations vacation activities vacation accommodations vacation packages restaurants music art audiovisual entertainment live entertainment consumer goods political candidates political beliefs medical treatments and medical conditions. A product choice is an individual product service combination of products and services user selectable unit or consumer selectable unit within a category or categories. Product choices may be presented or selected in a variety of circumstances including browsing the Internet for a product choice from a computing device selecting or being presented with a product choice via a smartphone application selecting or being presented with product choices based on user input received by an advertisement e.g. where the user indicates an interest level via a slider within a displayed advertisement and the user is directed to a page with relevant product choices .

In some embodiments the visual representation is modified according to user interest levels. In some embodiments the visual representation is modified according to other data including user location consumer ratings expert reviews and saved user tastes and selections. User input values are input via a continuum based selector which comprises pre selected product choice criteria. The continuum based selector facilitates receipt and precise identification of user desires in a product e.g. royal blue instead of blue or red partly sunny instead of rain or sun compared to binary radio button check box or drop down menu based selections of product choice criteria.

In some embodiments as a result of the present disclosure s systems computer program products and methods the user is presented with a graphical user interface GUI comprising at least one continuum based selector and at least one product choice visual representation. The GUI allows the user to select a product choice or input user interest values utilizing at least one continuum based selector.

In some embodiments user interest values are receivable from sources other than the user. User inputs are received from user interaction with at least one continuum based selector. Each continuum based selector comprises at least one pre selected criterion a cursor capable of being manipulated by the user and a cursor area wherein the user moves the cursor to indicate his relative interest in the at least one criterion in the continuum based selector.

Methods computer program products and systems of the present disclosure compare one or more user interest values with at least one product choice. The comparison comprises identifying the similarity of user interest value with stored result values located on computer readable media for a given product choice. A unique weighing value is generated for each product choice compared the unique weighing value is at least partially based on the comparison of user interest value and stored result values previously performed. The unique weighing value corresponds to the relevance of a specific product choice to the user based at least in part on received user interest values. The user is then presented with at least one product choice visual representation. The visual representation presented is modified based on the unique weighing value of the product choice depicted. In some embodiments this visual representation is scaled in proportion to the unique weighing value of the product choice depicted.

Further features and advantages of the methods computer program products and systems disclosed herein as well as the structure and operation of various aspects of the present disclosure are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying figures.

The present disclosure is directed to obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using continuum based inputs. As used herein a product choice refers to an individual product service combination of products and services user selectable unit or consumer selected unit within a category or categories or a decision on any query facilitated by simultaneous consideration of multiple inputs. Product choices may be selected from categories including the following exemplary categories vacation destinations vacation activities vacation accommodations vacation packages music music playlists art audiovisual entertainment live entertainment consumer goods political candidates political beliefs medical treatments and medical conditions.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein the methods computer program products and systems for facilitating searching obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations of the present disclosure may be utilized by a service provider. As used herein a service provider refers to an individual person business or automated system who may be providing goods and or services. The service provider may allow users to access an ecommerce website on a free registration paid subscriber and or pay per use basis via one or more World Wide Web WWW sites on the Internet.

As will also be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s in an aspect various login admin account information resource logout payment registration communications etc. screens would be generated by the service provider s WWW site s in response to input from users over the Internet. That is in such an embodiment the service provider would have a typical Web server running a server application at a Web site which sends out Web pages in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secured HTTPS requests from remote browsers on various devices being used by various users. Thus the server would provide a graphical user interface GUI to users in the form of Web pages. These Web pages are sent to one or more desktop PC laptop tablet notebook mobile device PDA smart phone or like computing functionality devices utilized by users and would result in the GUI being displayed.

As will also be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s after reading the description herein alternate aspects of the present disclosure may include providing the tool for facilitating searching obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations within a stand alone system e.g. installed on one server PC or as an enterprise system wherein all the components are connected and communicate via an inter corporate wide area network WAN or local area network LAN rather than as an ecommerce Web service i.e. application service provider ASP model utilized by various unrelated unaffiliated users.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating an exemplary computer system useful for implementing the present disclosure is shown. sets forth illustrative computing functionality that may be used to implement any aspect of the functions described herein. For example computing functionality may be used to implement any aspect of the present disclosure. In all cases computing functionality represents one or more physical and tangible processing mechanisms.

Computing functionality may include volatile and non volatile memory such as RAM and ROM as well as one or more processing devices e.g. one or more central processing units CPUs one or more graphical processing units GPUs and the like . Computing functionality also optionally includes various media devices such as a hard disk module an optical disk module and so forth. Computing functionality can perform various operations identified above when the processing device s executes instructions that are maintained by memory e.g. RAM ROM .

More generally instructions and other information may be stored on any computer readable medium including but not limited to static memory storage devices magnetic storage devices and optical storage devices. The term computer readable medium also encompasses plural storage devices. In all cases computer readable medium represents some form of physical and tangible entity. By way of example and not limitation computer readable medium may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable medium.

Computing functionality also includes an input output module for receiving various inputs via input modules and for providing various outputs via one or more output modules . One particular output mechanism may include a presentation module and an associated GUI . Computing functionality may also include one or more network interfaces for exchanging data with other devices via one or more communication conduits . One or more communication buses communicatively couple the above described components together.

Communication conduit s may be implemented in any manner e.g. by a local area network a wide area network e.g. the Internet etc. or any combination thereof . Communication conduit s can include any combination of hardwired links wireless links routers gateway functionality name servers etc. governed by any protocol or combination of protocols.

Alternatively or in addition any of the functions described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Application specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

The terms module and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or combinations thereof. In the case of a software implementation the module or component represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor. The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices as described with reference to The features of the present disclosure described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques can be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors e.g. desktop laptop notebook tablet computer personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart telephone gaming console and the like .

Referring now to an illustration of an exemplary GUI for the searching obtaining and displaying of product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown.

GUI comprises one or more product choice visual representations and one or more continuum based selectors shown as selectors in . In an embodiment GUI is presented to a user by presentation module of computing system e.g. a desktop laptop notebook tablet computer personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart telephone gaming console etc. . In some embodiments presentation module also comprises input module e.g. a mouse keyboard touch screen camera systems configured to detect and accept user input . In other embodiments input modules are partially distinct from presentation module . In such embodiments input modules may be a keyboard and mouse wherein the user may interact with methods computer program products and systems according to the present disclosure by moving a pointer within GUI .

In an embodiment presentation module presents at least one product choice visual representation . In an embodiment more than one product choice visual representation depict the same product choice but using different visual representations in order to provide the user with more information about the product choice. In other embodiments each product choice visual representation depicts a different product choice thus maximizing the number of choices presented to the user within GUI . In an embodiment product choice visual representations are scaled according to component calculations of unique weighing value of the product choice depicted. In one embodiment large scale depiction indicates a high unique weighing value for the product choice depicted. Small scale depiction indicates a lower unique weighing value for the product choice depicted. In some embodiments a high unique weighing value indicates that the product choice is very relevant to the user based on received user interest values.

In some embodiments product choice visual representations are presented to the user via presentation module before the user has interacted with methods computer program products and systems according to the present disclosure. In an embodiment product choice visual representations presented before a user has interacted with computing functionality represent a random selection of product choices. In another embodiment product choice visual representations presented before a user has interacted with computing functionality represent product choices appealing to the user based on stored user preferences accessed by computing functionality . In yet another embodiment product choice visual representations presented before a user has interacted with computing functionality represent product choices which are relevant to similar users. In yet another embodiment product choice visual representations presented before a user has interacted with computing functionality represent popular product choices. In yet another embodiment product choice visual representations presented before a user has interacted with computing functionality represent promotional product choices seasonally relevant product choices or specially chosen product choice based on known information about the user such as the user s location budget travel destination desire and past shopping habits.

One or more product choice visual representations are presented providing the user with product choices and representations of product attributes before the user independently formulates a complete list of product attributes they seek in selecting a product choice. A product attribute is a trait of a product choice. For example a product choice of a beach vacation to Miami Beach Fla. has the product attributes of sun beach Miami Beach and so forth. Initially presenting the user with one or more product choice visual representations exposes the user to additional product choices and attributes which the user may not have considered when initially seeking or searching for a product choice.

In some embodiments after the user has interacted with computing functionality a portion of GUI displays one or more product choice visual representations which are unrelated or loosely related to received user interest values. These product choice visual representations expose the user to additional product choices and attributes which the user may not have considered when initially seeking or searching for a product choice and may assist the user in finding the most desirable product choice because being presented with unrelated or loosely related product choices may prompt the user to reevaluate their criteria selections.

Each continuum based selector comprises one or more criteria shown as criteria in a cursor shown as cursor in and a cursor area shown as cursor area . Although a plurality of criteria cursors and cursor areas are present in labels for criteria cursors and cursor areas associated with continuum based selectors have been omitted for the sake of clarity of . Each criteria is an indication of one or more product attributes. In an embodiment criteria is a word e.g. rain sun beach mountain In another embodiment criteria is a visual signal e.g. a picture of a mountain a graphic of a tree . In another embodiment criteria is an audiovisual clip such as a video of individuals dancing in a nightclub. In another embodiment criteria is an audio clip such as the sound of splashing waves. In yet another embodiment criteria are only visual representations such as an icon or a graphic. Icon or graphic based criteria are capable of being understood by the user regardless of the user s native language.

In yet another embodiment at least one criteria is a limiting criteria . The limiting criteria excludes product choices and other criteria which conflict with the limiting criteria . For example in an embodiment where the user is selecting a television size is a limiting criteria . The user may indicate their desire to select a television which has a viewing diagonal of at least fifty inches. In an embodiment where user is selecting a vacation package limiting criteria may be the location of the vacation package. For example user may indicate their desire to select a vacation package within the state of Florida or within Europe. Cursor is an icon presented in GUI movable by the user via one or more input modules in order to express user interest in one or more criteria . Cursor area is an n dimensional space wherein cursor is moveable. Cursor is moveable relative to one or more criteria positioned relative to cursor area . In one embodiment continuum based selector is a slider comprising two criteria a cursor and a cursor area . One criterion is positioned on one end portion of a two dimensional cursor area and one criterion is positioned on the other opposite end portion of two dimensional cursor area . Cursor is positioned along cursor area and is movable along the axis of cursor area in motion relative to the positions of criteria . In an embodiment continuum based selector is a tuning knob and cursor area is a circle. Cursor position relative to criteria is determined based on the radial position of cursor .

In an embodiment the user inputs their interest in one or more criteria by moving cursor within cursor area relative to the positions of one or more criteria . In one embodiment a first criteria is positioned on one end portion of a two dimensional cursor area and a second criteria is positioned on the other opposite end portion of two dimensional cursor area . First and second criteria are qualitatively distinct e.g. rain and sun swimming and hiking beach and mountain active and relaxing quiet and lively adults only and kid friendly . In another embodiment first and second criteria are quantitatively distinct e.g. and 100 day and 10 000 day . In some embodiments nuance of language allows usage of criteria contained in continuum based selector to be less qualitatively or quantitatively distinct e.g. sunny and partly cloudy 200 day and 300 day . In another embodiment a single criteria is present in multiple continuum based selectors . Cursor in each continuum based selector is movable relative to single criteria and other criteria . In such embodiments the position of cursor relative to single criteria and other criteria is modifiable by the user via input module .

In another embodiment continuum based selector is an area wherein cursor is movable in two dimensions and configured as a slider bar. In some embodiments cursor area is a box. In another embodiment cursor area is a circle or triangle. In some embodiments criteria are statically placed relative to cursor area . The user moves cursor relative to statically placed criteria in continuum based selector . The relative position of cursor to criteria indicates the user s relative interest level in criteria contained in continuum based selector . In one embodiment continuum based selector comprises a triangular cursor area wherein the triangle is an equilateral triangle three criteria positioned at the corners of triangular cursor area and a cursor located within triangular cursor area and moveable by the user.

In another embodiment continuum based selector is a three dimensional area wherein cursor is movable in three dimensions within continuum based selector s three dimensional cursor area . In an embodiment cursor area is a cube. Criteria area statically placed on each side of the cube cursor area . Cursor is moveable by the user within the volume of cube cursor area . In another embodiment utilizing cube cursor area cursor is moveable by the user along the surface of cube cursor area . In other embodiments utilizing three dimensional cursor area cursor area may be a hexagonal tube a triangular tube a sphere or another polyhedron.

In some embodiments criteria are not statically placed relative to cursor area . In an embodiment where the user indicates a high user interest value in a given criteria the user is presented with additional more particularized related criteria enabling the user to drill down to criteria which more accurately capture their interests.

In an embodiment cursor area contains a default state wherein cursor registers no preference between one or more criteria contained within continuum based selector . In the embodiment depicted in the default state is located at a point on the cursor area equidistant between two criteria contained in continuum based selector e.g. criteria within selector shown in . In some embodiments cursor located at the default state registers no user preference between two criteria contained in continuum based selector . In other embodiments cursor located at the default state indicates an apathy or neutrality toward criteria contained in continuum based selector . In one embodiment continuum based selector comprises a triangular cursor area wherein the triangle is an equilateral triangle three criteria positioned at the corners of triangular cursor area and a cursor located within triangular cursor area and moveable by the user. In such an embodiment the default state is located at a point equidistant from the vertices of the triangular cursor area .

In an embodiment GUI is initially presented to the user comprising cursors in positions within their respective cursor areas indicating interest in one or more criteria . In an embodiment the initial positions of cursors indicate the relative interest placed in these positions in response to inputs including stored user preferences photos the location of the user user purchasing habits and in the case of travel product choice selection destination information from a third party source hotel flight travel package or other travel product inventory. This information is accessible via communication conduits and stored on one or more computer readable medium .

In some embodiments GUI comprises additional elements including links to or text of user reviews and ratings links to or text of expert reviews and rating inventory levels and a user login prompt.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for searching obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. In such an embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented in GUI and are configured such that the user can interact with one or more continuum based selectors or one or more product choice visual representations .

In step a module of a program in accordance with this disclosure utilizes presentation module to present one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations to a user. In an embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented in GUI . In an alternate embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented via a two dimensional display. In yet another alternate embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented via a three dimensional display.

In step at least one user interest value is received. The user interest value is an indication of the user s desire to select a product choice with a given attribute. In an embodiment user interest values are receivable for a single person inputting user interest values via input module . In another embodiment user interest values are received from multiple users as a group of friends are planning a trip and input user interest values via input modules associated with multiple computing devices. In yet another embodiment user interest values are received from computer readable media . The user interest value is continuum based. That is where a user is very interested in a given attribute e.g. user must go to the beach on their vacation a high user interest value is provided. Where a user is less interested in a given attribute e.g. going to the beach while on vacation would be nice but not essential a moderate user interest value is provided. Where a user does not want a given attribute e.g. user does not want to be near a beach a low or zero user interest value is provided.

In an embodiment the user inputs one or more user interest values via input module and GUI by moving cursor of continuum based selector . In other embodiments user interest values are received from on site or off site computer readable medium wherein the user interest values provided are pre defined to reflect the user interest values of a specific type of consumer like a remote beach seeker an avid soccer player a single mother or a retiree living in Florida. These pre defined user interest values may be generated by users programmers product experts and travel experts.

In some embodiments received interest values from on site or off site computer readable medium are based on the user s location such as the user s home city or the location they are inputting user interest values at. For example where the user is utilizing methods computer program products or systems in accordance with the present disclosure to select a vacation destination away from the user s home town user interest values received from on site or off site computer readable medium indicate that the user is located in San Francisco Calif. and desires to go to another location for their vacation. In some embodiments a user interest value also indicates San Francisco Calif. is the flight departure and flight return location. In another embodiment the user is located in Atlanta Ga. and desires to have dinner at a local Italian restaurant. Received user interest values indicate the user s desire for Italian cuisine and for a restaurant location in Atlanta Ga. In another embodiment the user utilizes methods computer program products or systems in accordance with the present disclosure to locate nearby shopping opportunities while the user is walking around New York City s Times Square. Received user interest values include the user s desire for nearby shopping opportunities and the user s location in New York City s Times Square.

In some embodiments user interest values are received in step from user input via continuum based selector . The user positions cursor on cursor area at a location corresponding with their interest level in criteria included in continuum based selector . Cursor position indicates the user interest level. In step the position of cursor is received by a program module configured to receive user interest values. In some embodiments the user moves several cursors and more than one user interest value from the user s actions are received.

In some embodiments user interest values indicating limitations are received. In an embodiment where the user desires a television with a viewable diagonal larger than fifty inches a corresponding user interest value is received which will exclude televisions possession viewing diagonals smaller than fifty inches. Limiting user interest values may also be geographic in nature. In an embodiment where user is selecting a vacation package the user may indicate their desire to select a vacation package within the state of Florida or within Europe. In such embodiments corresponding user interest values will be received which exclude vacation packages outside the state of Florida or Europe. As will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s limiting user interest values may be any attribute relevant to identify the user s desired product choice

In some embodiments user input values received in step are used to form a profile of the user s tastes or preferences. In some embodiments criteria contained in continuum based selectors presented to the user are presented based on information contained in a user s profile. For example a continuum based selector which contains the criteria bikini and parka for users without a profile contains the criteria 5 inch heels and flip flops for a user with a profile indicating that criteria 5 inch heels and flip flops will be more relevant selection criteria for that user. Optionally the user profile is viewable by other users and aids other users in identifying individuals with similar tastes. This knowledge lends credibility to a user s reviews or comments when viewed by others.

In step process compares the user interest levels received in step with product choices. In one embodiment this comparison is performed by accessing one or more computer readable medium containing stored result values. Stored result values indicate the quantity or quality of an attribute a specific product choice has. For example a vacation to Miami Beach Fla. would have high stored result values for attributes such as sunny weather urban night life and beach. The vacation to Miami Beach however would have low stored result values for such attributes as rainy weather and mountain climbing. In some embodiments a lookup table for stored result values is accessed and product choices with stored result values that correspond with user interest values for the user interest values supplied are located. In some embodiments where multiple user interest values have been supplied multiple stored result values for a product choice are compared to user interest values.

In some embodiments limiting criteria specify the source of the stored result values used in steps . In one such embodiment continuum based selectors contain limiting criteria indicating sources of stored result values. Via continuum based selectors the user is capable of indicating a range of sources they desire their product choice recommendations to be based on. Sources of stored result values include but are not limited to editorial sources e.g. travel commentators product reviewers crowd sourced sources and personal sources e.g. friends family co workers . Other sources include expert sources and novice sources.

In step process generates unique weigh values for at least one product choice that was compared in step . In one embodiment the unique weighing value of a product choice is generated by dividing the unique interest value supplied by the user for a given product choice attribute by the stored result value for the product choice attribute. When the user interest value is equal to the stored result value the division operation results in a unique weighing value of 1. Thus when a 1 is returned this indicates the product choice would be highly relevant to the user. In other embodiments multiple user interest values are received and compared in step and step . Unique weighing values for a product choice are generated based on the similarity of more than one unique weighing value to its corresponding stored result value and higher unique weighing values are assigned where a product choice possesses multiple stored result values which correlate strongly with user interest values. Other methods for weighing and calculating the relevance of a product choice to received user interest values will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant arts.

In step process presents to the user at least one product choice visual representation . The product choice visual representations are modified based on the unique weighing value of the product choice that was generated in step . In one embodiment product choice visual representations are scaled in proportion to their unique weighing values and presented to the user via presentation module . The relevance of the product choice is proportional to the unique weighing value of the product choice with higher unique weighing values indicating that a product choice is more relevant to the user. In an embodiment large scale depiction indicates a high unique weighing value for the product choice depicted and a small scale depiction indicates a lower unique weighing value for the product choice depicted.

In some embodiments at least one additional user interest value is received upon completion of step . Steps may be repeated. Where unique weighing values are generated based on the at least one additional user interest value which differ from previous unique weighing values the user is presented with product choice visual representations which differ from the initial product choice visual representations presented to the user. New product choice visual representations are scaled differently and represent different product choices depending on the embodiment.

In some embodiments received user interest values for a single user are saved in a user preference report. Information saved in the user preference report includes but is not limited to the user input values received from an individual users input the user input values compared with product choices changes the user makes to user input values and consistency of user interest values over multiple input sessions. In some embodiments user preference report is transmitted to computer readable media where it is accessible by the user or a third party. Third parties include but are not limited to product choice suppliers product choice providers and product choice developers.

In some embodiments information regarding user interest values is saved in an aggregate preference report. Information saved in the aggregate preference report includes but is not limited to the user input values received from all user inputs user input values compared with product choices changes users makes to user input values upon being presented with additional product choice visual representations consistency of user interest values and any other information a person having ordinary skill in the art would find relevant when analyzing user choices preferences and desires. In some embodiments aggregate preference report is transmitted to computer readable media where it is accessible by the user or a third party. Third parties include but are not limited to product choice suppliers product choice providers and product choice developers.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for searching obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations wherein additional information about a product choice is presented to the user according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown.

In step process utilizes presentation module to present one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations to a user. In an embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented in GUI . That is one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented via presentation module and are configured such that the user can interact with one or more continuum based selectors or one or more product choice visual representations via input module .

In an alternate embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented via a two dimensional display. In yet another embodiment one or more continuum based selectors and one or more product choice visual representations are presented via a three dimensional display.

In step the user requests basic product choice information. In an embodiment basic product choice information is requested when the user places a pointer over a specific product choice visual representation . Basic product information includes but is not limited to an enlarged product choice visual representation pricing information additional product choice description ordering information ratings reviews and inventory levels.

In step presentation module presents the user with at least one enlarged product choice visual representation . Then in step presentation module presents additional information related to the enlarged product choices. Additional information includes but is not limited to pricing information additional product choice description ordering information ratings reviews and inventory levels.

In some embodiments the user moves a pointer to a product choice visual representation wherein the product choice visual representation is an image. The image of the product choice is scaled for example to 150 of its previous size and text is displayed below the image providing the user with a textual description of the product choice.

In step process receives a request for detailed product choice information. In some embodiments a request for detailed product choice information is received when the user utilizes input module and selects a product choice by clicking on a specific product choice visual representation . Other means of receiving a request for detailed product choice information will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art s .

In alternate embodiments the user may request detailed product choice information such that step occurs after step as shown in . In yet another embodiment however step may occur after step . Detailed product information includes but is not limited to purchasing information pricing information additional product choice description ordering information ratings reviews and inventory levels.

After receiving detailed product choice information request in step presentation module presents the user with detailed product information on a separate page window or section in step .

In step presentation module provides the user with one or more options including but not limited to purchasing the product choice saving information about the product choice to the user s account or computer sending sharing information about the product choice creating a review of the product choice creating a rating of the product choice or comparing the product choice with at least one other product choice. Sending information about the product choice includes sending an email message containing information about a specified product choice to a designated email address sending a message via some third party software sending a text SMS message or sending a message via a social networking site such as FACEBOOK available from Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. PINTEREST available from Cold Brew Labs Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. or LINKEDIN available from LinkedIn Corporation of Mountain View Calif. .

Referring now to a screenshot illustrating an exemplary graphical user interface for searching obtaining and displaying product choice recommendations using inputs including continuum based inputs and variable sized visual representations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is shown.

As explained above process is capable of presenting a unique weighing value of a product choice to the user. Thus in an embodiment a visual representation of value is a text display of percentage match. In another embodiment visual representation of value is a rating between zero and five stars. In another embodiment visual representation of value is a graphic icon indicating the product choice s relevance to the user. In another embodiment visual representation of value is a bounding box enclosing product choice visual representations with similar unique weighing values. In yet another embodiment visual representation of value is a graphical overlay indicating the product choice s relevance to the user. For example a graph indicates stored values associated with a product choice and another graph indicates received user interest values. Where visual representation of value is a graphical overlay indicating the product choice s relevance to the user the graph indicating stored values associated with a product choice and the graph indicating received user interest values are overlaid. Where the graphs completely overlap the associated product choice is highly relevant. Where the graphs partially overlap or do not overlap the associated product choice is less relevant or not relevant to the user.

In some embodiments one or more visual representations of value indicating the unique weighing value of various product choice visual representations may be presented. In one such embodiment presentation module presents one or more visual representations of value to the user contemporaneously with or after step of process . In alternate embodiments where user input values have previously been stored presentation module may present one or more visual representations of value to the user contemporaneously with or after step of process .

In some embodiments product choice visual representations are presented to the user wherein the product choice visual representation additionally comprises previous choice information. Previous choice information is a visual representation of the unique weighing value associated with the product choice depicted which was generated based on previous received user interest values. In an embodiment where a user has utilized methods computer program products and systems in accordance with this disclosure in the past e.g. visiting the same travel website to choose a vacation destination once in the past unique weighing values associated with product choices are stored. Product choice visual representations associated with stored unique weighing values are presented to the user additionally comprising previous product information. For example a user has previously visited a travel website searching for a beach vacation. In the previous visit a high unique weighing value for a trip to Waikiki was calculated and stored. The user returns to the travel website to search for a vacation. Upon arrival or after additional inputs are received the user is presented with a picture of a Waikiki beach vacation and a graphic stating You previously gave Waikiki five stars 

In an embodiment product choice visual representations are presented to the user in sequence. In some embodiments the sequence is in descending order of relevance. In another embodiment product choice visual representations are presented to the user via presentation module presented to the user sequentially. One product choice visual representation may appear at a time. In some embodiments the most relevant product choices with the highest unique weighing values are presented to the user first. In an embodiment comprising sequential presentation of product choice visual representations a first presentation of a product choice is initiated and at least one additional product choice is presented after the first presentation has begun. In some embodiments product choice visual representations are presented in a manner that fills a single display area upon conclusion of presenting all product choice visual representations to be presented to the user. In other embodiments product choices are presented in a slide show fashion and may be ordered according to unique weighing value.

In some embodiments product choice visual representations overlap. In other embodiments such as one in accordance with GUI product choice visual representations are presented in a grid arrangement. In some embodiments a single set of product choice visual representations are presented via GUI unless an input is received. In other embodiments multiple sets of product choice visual representations are presented via GUI in the absence of an input. Presentation of multiple sets of product choice visual representations presents a user with more product choices and or more perspectives on the same product choice than a static presentation of product choices would present. In some embodiments product choice visual representations are displayed in column or row format in order of descending unique weighing value. In some embodiments product choice visual representations are presented to the user according to their distance from the user.

In some embodiments the display format of GUI is adjustable by the user. In an embodiment the user may input the maximum number of product choice visual representations to be displayed. In another embodiment the user may select the type of product choice visual representation to be used to show product choices including but not limited to image textual list and map based views.

While various aspects of the present disclosure have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary aspects but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures in the attachments which highlight the structure methodology functionality and advantages of the present disclosure are presented for example purposes only. The present disclosure is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be implemented in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the foregoing Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the relevant art s who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of this technical disclosure. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way.

