---

title: Colorimetric detector
abstract: The present invention is directed toward a colorimetric detection kit comprising a unit containing chemical reagents and a sample collector for collecting a sample analyte from a surface and a separate unit for visualizing a possible reaction of the chemical reagent and sample, the unit holding the chemical reagents and sample collector being placeable on the visualization unit, whereby when the chemical reagents are released, they are directed onto the sample collector for reaction and the reacted reagents absorbed on a visualization media, such that the presence of a specified analyte in the sample results in a color change in the visualization media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09023291&OS=09023291&RS=09023291
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of The Army
number: 09023291
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121023
---
The present invention relates to a portable detector that collects and detects liquid or solid phase analytes in samples collected from the environment.

Most portable sample detectors only identify one analyte for a given singular device. These analyte detections often rely upon the users ability to select the correct device for a specific analyte. During sampling users may not be fully knowledgeable of all of the analytes that can possibly be present in the environment. This situation can lead to longer detection times and prolonged durations in a hazardous environment which may cause severe injuries or death. Additionally low volatility and or solid phase analytes i.e. ammonium nitrate perchlorate salts urea and urea nitrate do not produce enough vaporous mass due to their inherently low volatilities and thus cannot be detected via traditional selective vapor phase sampling means i.e. M256A2 JCAD . Therefore there is a need for a multiplex method and a detection device that is relatively inexpensive to manufacture which requires minimal training to rapidly and or to simultaneously sample and detect multiple analytes in the environment.

The present invention can be characterized as a Colorimetric Homemade Explosive Detector CHED and is a collection concentration sampler and detector of liquid or solid phase analytes from diverse environmental matrices specifically explosive compounds for their precursors . The CHED can presumptively identify multiple explosive analytes of interest which may consist of one or multiple chemical functional groups of a particular chemical or explosive compound. The CHED collects via a physical contact interaction between solids and liquids on a surface and a sampling collector pad. The collector pad can move across an area to collect samples over a larger surface with respect to the sampler s surface area leading to increases in concentration of the analyte for trace analysis. The sampling pad is placed in a compact detection unit of the device. The detection unit of this invention includes a compact sampling and chemical unit juxtaposed and openable relative to the detection unit. The device provides a pathway between the sampling and chemical unit and the collector pad to provide visualization of any chemical reaction on the collector pad to determine the presence of a suspect analyte.

The present invention is directed toward a colorimetric detection kit and its use for collecting multiple samples and detecting liquid or solid analytes from these samples which are obtained from diverse environmental matrices. As shown in the colorimetric detection kit comprises a detection and visualization unit DAVU a sampling and chemical unit SACU and a protective cover that overlays the SACU . A sample collector is attached to and is part of the SACU. An attachment means comprising clips with groove on the side of unit receives protrusion extending from the side of unit to fasten the SACU to the DAVU wherein the SACU can be placed adjacent to and flush against the DAVU to create a tight seal.

The SACU can be separated from DAVU and remains attached thereto via a pair of flexible hinges allowing the opening and closing of SACU to DAVU and . The bias in hinges tightly seals the SACU to DAVU to prevent any leakage of chemicals and provides for accurate reactions to take place in each visualization cell as will be described below. The SACU is comprised of multiple individually confined and equally sized chemical reagent cells CRC . The DAVU is comprised of multiple individually confined and equally sized detection and visualization cells DAVC . Each of the DAVC contains a visualization media . The visualization media is comprised of a flat absorbent pad. The absorbent pad can be transparent white or of any color that produces a stark contrast with the color change induced by the presence of an analyte. The absorbent pad can be in the form of a filter paper a silica gel paper a cloth and a glass fiber disk etc. The paper or cloth can for example be made of cotton yarn cellulose fibers rayon blend borosilicate glass fiber with PVA binder cellulose and synthetic blend with PVA binder or cotton linter. The pad may or may not be coated with a sticky adhesive material or other support additives as needed i.e. impregnated with an enzyme specific for urea hydrolysis. The preferred materials are cotton linter that is commercial available as Whatman Absorbent Sinks and cloth membrane that is commercially available as Dupont Sonatra 8426. As will be discussed below the visualization media may also be the sampling or collection pad which collects samples from the environment. Each of the CRC contains at least one chemical color detection reagent in ampoules . Very briefly for colorimetric detection the kit is first unfastened and the collection pad on the bottom of SAVU as shown in is pressed against a suspect surface. The kit is then fastened and the color detection reagents within each of the CRC are released from their containers and directed downward onto the collection pad for reaction with any suspect analyte and the reacted reagent is then directed onto and into the visualization media . The reacted reagents are absorbed by the visualization media in each of the DAVC . The visualization media then indicates the color change in the presence of a specific analyte. The visualization media is viewable through transparent bottom surface of DAVU .

Referring to the sampling and chemical unit SACU is the top component of the colorimetric detection kit . The SACU is comprised of multiple individually confined and equally sized chemical reagent cells CRC . Each of the CRC houses at least one chemical reagent carried in containers such as breakable ampoules . Below ampoules is a directing sink with apertures that enable the chemical reagents to be released downward from the broken ampoules to the sampling collector and to DAVU . Beneath each of the sinks is placed sample collector surface and pad . illustrates sample collector with a customized surface geometry to concentrate the samples collected and reagents in the form of a pattern. This pattern allows any positive detection to be readily visible by the user on the surface of the visualization media of the DAVU through transparent bottom surface .

The SACU can be in the shape of a square rectangle circle or any shape that enables the colorimetric kit to be handheld and portable. Preferably the SACU has a square shape. Each of the CRC can have a geometric shape compatible with the shape of the SACU . Again as shown in each CRC has a square shape. Each square CRC can have a surface area of approximately 0.5 to 2 square inches and preferably 1 square inch. The SACU and the CRC are preferably made of an inert lightweight plastic material selected from polyethylene polypropylene polystyrene polyvinyl chloride polytetrafluoroethylene and mixtures thereof. Polypropylene is preferred. The SACU may include two to ten CRC preferably four to eight CRC and most preferably four CRC that are arranged in a square so that the SACU can be readily hand held. The bottom of each of the CRC is in the form of a concave sink which sink also includes at least one draining channel . A plurality of channels are preferred. At least one chemical reagent container such as in the form of ampoules is anchored within each of the CRC and above the concave sink . The sample collector or pad is attached such as by an adhesive to the bottom of sink see .

The chemical color detection reagent in each container or ampoule is in the form of a liquid or powdered solid that is directed through the draining channels in sink without clogging the channels. The chemical reagent is contained within a container that is easily breakable and yet provides long term stable storage of the reagent when the kit is not in use. The containers shown in the Figures are in the form of ampoules that are formed from glass or fit breakable plastics which are non reactive with the reagent materials contained therein. The ampoules can be hermetically sealed to prevent loss of activity and protected from UV photosynthesis to maintain activity. Ampoules that are located within each of the CRC may also be labeled with numbers or letters to indicate the appropriate order of release events.

The chemical color detection reagents can be made from any flowable chemicals known in the art to provide color reactions upon their interaction with specific analytes. More than one chemical can be incorporated into a reagent. While not intended to be limiting the kit and the chemical reagents contained therein are particularly useful in detecting explosive compounds or precursors of such materials. For example in the detection of nitrate a mixture of phosphoric acid HPO and di n propylamine DPA is used. Meanwhile for the detection of ammonium a Nessler s solution a mixture of Potassium tetraiodomercurate II and potassium hydroxide is used. Preferably four sets of reagents are anchored within a SACU for the purpose of detecting homemade explosives HME such that the colorimetric kit has four CRC that are respectively designated to detect four main ingredients of HME two fuels ammonium and urea and two oxidizers perchlorate and nitrate . The colorimetric detection kit of this configuration for detecting HME can be characterized as a colorimetric homemade explosive detector CHED . Thus kit can include both a reagent for fuel and oxidizers such that a positive test for both is a ready indication of an explosive.

The SACU has partitions to separate each of the CRC . The underside of partitions are formed as interlocking channels or grooves see . In a fastened or closed position the grooves fit snuggly onto the partitions that divide each of the corresponding detection and visualization cells DAVC in DAVU in order to create a tight seal to prevent leakage of chemical reagents and samples from one CRC to another.

The sample collection surface can be made of at least one material that holds a static charge and or is rough in nature to increase the sample collection efficiency as it is swiped across or pressed against a suspect surface. The sample collection surface can be constructed of a fibrous and or porous material or coated with absorptive materials specific to suspected analytes. Alternatively the collection surface can be wetted with a solvent or include an adhesive compound to increase the liquid and solid sampling efficiency of the collection surface from the environment on which the collection surface is contacted. A useful embodiment employs an adhesive material akin to that used on 3M sticky notes on an inert and roughed cloth. The sample collection surface and adhesive should be chemically inert to the analytes of interest. The adhesive can be selected from pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylate based polymers and bio adhesives such as vegetable matter starch dextran and natural resins or those from animals e.g. casein or animal glue. The most preferred adhesive is 3M Repositionable Spray Adhesive 75. The sample collection surface can include an adhesive on both opposing surfaces one surface for effectively adhering the suspect sample thereto and the opposing surface to allow the collection surface to be secured within the SACU during sampling and testing with the reagent s .

The sample collection surface or pad may further include a customized surface geometry as shown in . Specifically the surface geometry of sample collector includes a recess or set of recesses such as in the form of a star a cross a check mark or any geometric shape that concentrates the sample within the recesses and allows any color change on the collection surface to be reproduced in the visualization media in the shape of the recess . This may allow for better contrast with the color of surface media and provide easier detection of a positive presence of an analyte in the sample being tested. This is particularly useful if the user is encumbered with physical protection gear including protective goggles or masks.

The SACU further includes a protective cover that overlays the entire unit and aids in holding the ampoules in place within each CRC . The cover also confines the reagent after the ampoules are broken and protects the user s fingers and hand or any other crushing device from pieces of the broken chemical containers when the reagents are released from the containers by the user. Cover also provides the operator with a surface to help force the reagents into and through apertures and onto the sample collection surface . The protective cover may also include instructions not shown for each of the CRC to designate each CRC for a specific analyte. The instructions in the form of letters numbers or some other logical symbol order may impart a direct means to enable simple instructional direction as to the mechanical ampoule manipulative procedures required for the necessary detection procedures. Ampoules located in one volume may be labeled with numbers or letters to further indicate the appropriate order of events or the ampoules within one volume could be further segregated into smaller volumes that are labeled as discussed above.

Referring to the detection and visualization unit DAVU is the bottom component of the colorimetric detection kit . The DAVU is comprised of multiple individually confined and equally sized detection and visualization cells DAVC . Each of the DAVC houses a visualization media on a transparent bottom surface . The visualization media fits within each cell and can be held in place by ridge extending from the perimeter of each cell . The backside of bottom surface associated with each of the DAVC preferably contains visual cues or labels that help the operator determine whether the presence or absence of a specific analyte has been found. For example the presence of a specific analyte can be designated in a label by a certain color. The operator can then compare the label color with the color formed in the visualization media through bottom surface . This will be more fully described relative to below.

Each DAVC can be in the shape of a square rectangle circle or any shape that enables the colorimetric detection kit to be handheld and portable. Preferably each DAVC has a square shape. Thus as described above for each CRC DAVC also has a surface area of approximately 0.5 to 2 square inches and preferably 1 square inch. Importantly each DAVC has to be of the same dimensions and shape as the CRC so that when the SACU is folded over and fastened to the DAVU the cells from both units can be locked and sealed as juxtaposed with one another to prevent reagent leakage and cross contamination between adjacent cells. Each of the DAVC and in particular bottom surface is made of a transparent and lightweight material selected from acrylic i.e. poly methyl methacrylate butyrate i.e. cellulose acetate butyrate lexan i.e. polycarbonate polypropylene and PETG i.e. glycol modified polyethylene terphthalate or the same material as CRC . A preferred material is polypropylene. The transparency of the selected material allows for a quick visual inspection of the colorimetric detection process. Furthermore as for the CRC the selected material should be semi rigid and rugged capable of slight sideways tension and torque with the ability to be tossed around with little or no structural damage.

A DAVU may include two to ten DAVC preferably four to eight DAVC and most preferably four DAVC arranged in a square so that the DAVU can be fit precisely and compactly with SACU and be hand held. Importantly the number of the DAVC should be the same as the number of the CRC so that when the SACU is folded over and fastened over the DAVU the cells from both units are locked and sealed with one another to prevent reagent leakage and cross contamination. Again as shown in each of the partitions between cells will fit within each groove of partition of each cell .

When the kit is fastened after sample collection the chemical reagents are released from ampoules and the reagents are directed downward through apertures and directed onto sample collector for reaction. The reacted reagent is then wicked or absorbed by the visualization media . An appropriate color on media indicates the presence of a specific analyte. The reagent containers or ampoules can be opened in any sequence or timing to provide the desired reaction characteristics i.e. one ampoule could be broken its contents allowed to interact with the analyte followed shortly with a second ampoule being broken and its interaction with the now reacted analyte of interest. The reagent containers can also be opened simultaneously if so desired. Optionally a small handheld device not shown could be provided to allow the user to crush multiple ampoules concurrently. This device could be designed such that when pressed up against the body of the ampoules it crushes only those ampoules not positioned below open cavities in the device and that so when rotated or repositioned into a predetermined alternative orientation it is aligned such that subsequent ampoules can be crushed as necessary.

The backside of bottom surface of each of the DAVC can be labeled with visual cues which indicate the expected color of the visualization media in the presence of a specific analyte. Referring to four pads of untreated visualization media are shown through clear bottom surface . Four labels each reciting the analyte being tested for and the colors and which indicate respectively the presence or absence of the analyte of interest are provided on the outside of bottom surface . For example for the detection of ammonium the pre made Nessier s reagent will result in a yellow orange brown concentration dependent color in the presence of NH as the ammonium reacts with the mercury in the reagent. Thus the Danger label for the Ammonium label will have a yellow orange brown color. For the detection of nitrate diphenylamine in a strong acid phosphoric acid forms a dissolvable salt to produce a very dark black oxidation colorimetric response in the presence of nitrates. Thus label for Nitrates will include a Danger label portion that is black. Each Safe label can be the background color of visualization media or a reaction color that indicates the absence of the specific analyte that is being tested for. illustrates the presence of Urea and Nitrates . Thus upon reaction and absorption of the reacted reagent from collector in media there resulted a color pattern that matches the color in Danger label . Likewise color pattern on media for Nitrates matches the color in Danger label . The visualization media for Perchlorate and Ammonium remained uncolored indicating the absence of the analytes as the reaction color matches the color of Safe label .

This invention is designed to collect and concentrate the analyte sample from the surrounding environment with a single device. After a protective adhesive cover not shown is removed from the surface of the sampling pad for example the sampling pad is ready to be brought into contact with the hazardous area of interest see . The sampling pad can be dipped or pressed into a liquid or onto a solid material or rubbed over a surface of an area of interest to increase the amount of analyte or area of interest sampled from. The SACU is then closed over DAVU as shown in . The ampoules or reagent containers are opened by a mechanical crushing action by employing finger pressure or use of a hand held device in a uniform manner as described above so as to force the reagent liquid through the apertures beneath the ampoules in sink and directly onto sample collector . The reacted reagent will then be absorbed into visualization media . After a defined reaction and absorption waiting period the detection areas of media are visually or electronically inspected for a color change infrared visible UV spectrum or physical change liberation of heat foaming fuming smoking chemiluminescence luminescence phosphorescence and fluorescence . The preferred embodiment will employ the visual inspection of a color change employing the operator s visual modality. The individual detection areas colorimetric detections scheme can be employed individually or in a combinatorial fashion to detect or identify an analyte of interest or chemical category of interest as several or all at once. Although not preferred it is possible to eliminate sample collector and place a sample analyte collected by hand held means directly onto visualization media . Upon breakage of ampoule the reagent will contract and react with the analyte on media directly.

To determine if the proper color change even has occurred the support area around the visualization media will be colored and or text labeled in a manner to represent a positive detection event such as described for . The color on the media surface can be compared directly against the color indicators to assess or determine if the test is a positive or negative detection event to include both positive and negative color outcomes see . In order for the user to be certain of the results a color comparison chart will be integrally attached so negative and positive colorimetric results can be easily recognized by the user. This can be accompanied by a short step by step guide in cases where ampoule fills must be liberated in a non simultaneous fashion.

The kit of the present invention provides advantages over prior art detection devices in that the improved kit allows multiple detection capabilities to analyze liquid and solid phase materials such as fuel oxidizer materials from a single sample and a single handheld device. The kit allows sampling from a small or wide environment for one or more analytes and provides a means for rapid concentration of such analytes yielding lower detectable limits for such materials. The present kit is inexpensive to fabricate is disposable and has ease of use requiring minimal training so that an unskilled operator can perform the detection process quickly and safely. Because the device is portable relatively small in volume and light in weight the kit can be easily transported and operated for sampling detection and analysis. Because of the relativity small size of the kit multiple kits can be configured in a relatively light weight travel box. The present kit requires no batteries or electrical power to operate.

The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

