---

title: Calibration apparatus, methods and applications
abstract: An inertial sensor calibration method and inertial sensor calibration apparatus. One or more diffraction patterns are generated by one or more fixed and/or moveable gratings (inertial sensors) illuminated by an atomically stabilized source attached to a base and detected by an imager. The grating and/or inertial sensor has a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value, such as motion or distance that can be determined upon ultra-precise measurement. Such ultra-precise measurement can be used to calibrate the grating or inertial sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645167&OS=09645167&RS=09645167
owner: CORNELL UNIVERSITY
number: 09645167
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
This application is related to and derives priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 482 852 filed 5 May 2011 and titled ATOMIC STABILIZED OPTICAL APPARATUS METHODS AND APPLICATIONS the content of which is incorporated herein fully by reference.

This invention was funded under DARPA Grant N66001 08 1 2074 and US Army DOD ARMY Grant W31P4Q 12 1 0003. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to calibration and metrology apparatus methods and applications. More particularly embodiments relate to apparatus and methods for calibrating actual parameters such as motion and distance based on respective design parameters and metrology on the nanometer and sub nanometer scale applied for example but not limited to inertial sensors such as accelerometers grating accelerometers compass sensors and gyroscopes. Even more particularly embodiments pertain to the incorporation and utilization of a modified Nano Optical Ruler Imaging System NORIS for said calibration and metrology apparatus and methods.

Micro machined accelerometers and gyroscopes have revolutionized motion sensing in the commercial world. They have also significantly penetrated the needs of the military for offering navigation for weapons and soldier vehicle navigation. For most applications though the sensors have to be complemented with GPS data to enable total inertial sensor based navigation capability. This is because the sensors suffer from biases and scale factor variations from device to device and over time. Furthermore even if one could calibrate the devices after packaging there are significant scale factor and bias drifts that render the initial calibration ineffective. These drifts occur due to thermally induced creep in packaging and device anchors environmental vibrations thermal expansion gradients electronic noise shock and numerous other variables. In particular when the sensors are placed in weapons which are ejected at high accelerations of 15 000 g most inertial sensors develop significant bias drifts. Due to the large shocks or temperature cycling and the different thermal expansion coefficients of the package layers stresses onto the small inertial sensors change over time changing the sensor sensitivity and bias. One way to solve the sensor drift problem is to realize self calibration techniques directly onto the sensor chip. If one could package a rate table with every sensor the sensors could be calibrated on demand. For example after the sensors are ejected at high accelerations or subjected to repeated temperature cycling the sensors could be calibrated when they have approached constant velocity or normal operation regime. In the case of pedestrian navigation the small time during which ZUPTs zero velocity updates can be used to reduce effect of bias drifts can also be used to recalibrate the gyro bias to realize long GPS denied navigation capability. Provided with such capability MEMS inertial sensors could truly revolutionize GPS denied navigation for soldiers and weapons reducing loss of life due to misaim of weapons and providing a degree of confidence in warfare obtained by knowing where one is at all times. GPS denied navigation is also important for commercial applications such as navigation inside buildings and between tall buildings in urban environments where GPS signals cannot be reached.

In the field of inertial sensors a technique known as carouseling has been historically used to find north for gyro compassing and to calibrate the sensors at the same time. Carouseling requires the rotation of the inertial sensor about an axis by 180 degrees. By switching the direction of the gyroscope sensitive axis the sensitivity of the gyroscope changes to negative of the value in the 180 degree off direction. The bias voltage does not typically change with the angle of orientation and can be extracted from the two angle readings. The degree to which the bias can be removed depends on the degree to which the angle of rotation can be controlled. If the angle is in error by then the error in measuring the rotation rate from the gyroscope can be comparable to the bias signal.

Existing carousels used in practice are too big and heavy to be considered for applications such as personal navigation and complementing GPS in automobiles. An insight is that the carousel can itself be made using miniature motion technology such as MEMS actuators themselves.

The inventor has recognized the benefits and advantages of being able to provides solutions to the problems outlined above particularly by providing apparatus and methods enabling the measurement of distances with parts per billion 50 1000 ppb accuracy e.g. 5 nm position accuracy over a 100 mm dimensions 

A MEMS carousel can be implemented in many ways as MEMS fabrication techniques can enable miniature rotating platforms or platforms that move in rectilinear motion on the surface of a chip. Thermal electrostatic or piezoelectric actuators for example can be used to move the platform.

Kohler et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 066 004 discloses an inertial measurement unit using rotatable MEMS sensors. As disclosed therein there is a desire within the art to incorporate MEM microelectromechanical inertial sensors into an inertial sensor system due to the potential size weight and cost savings. However due to the relatively poor bias stability of currently available MEM inertial sensors e.g. on the order of 50 degree hr this has not been possible in applications of sensor systems that require an accuracy greater than what currently available MEM sensors can provide. Poor bias stability also referred to as drift can lead to errors in the sensor s output thus yielding errors in the calculated position or calculated orientation of a moving body to which the MEM inertial sensor is attached. The 004 patent describes a bias compensated MEM inertial sensor sensor system inertial measurement unit IMU and a method for bias error compensation of a sensor under a dynamic operating condition in which means are provided for electrically assessing the MEM sensor. However electrical means as disclosed e.g. in the 004 patent themselves contribute noise that prevents sufficient bias reduction or elimination for current and future applications.

Hence even though it is feasible to make MEMS sensors onto miniature rotating platforms it is very crucial to measure the position of the platform with high accuracy. Capacitive feedback on the sensor can provide position data but is prone to errors of electrode placement and movement due to substrate thermal expansion. These are the same sources of errors that induce the scale factor drift and biases in inertial sensors to begin with. One way to measure distances and motion accurately is to use optical wavefronts. Optical wavefronts can reflect from or transmit through structures and result in interference fields that can indicate the position of the motion of the structure. For example a grating on a substrate will reflect a pattern that generates a diffraction pattern that is a Sin c function. A rectangular reflective grating on the rotor chip will result in a Sin c x diffraction pattern at the imager with nodes placed at x z g where is the wavelength z is the gap between the aperture and the imager plane and g is the grating period. For example with z equal to 2 mm 850 nm and g 6 m the placement of the first diffraction node will be at x 0.28 mm showing up on the imager plane. The value of z can be estimated from knowing the value of g. Any tilt between the aperture chip and the imager chip can be quantified by the asymmetry of the diffraction pattern measured at the imager chip. As can be seen by the equation above any changes in the optical wavelength can lead to changes in the pattern as well. If the optical wavelength is fixed then the other variables are the system dimensions which can be measured with as much uncertainty as there is in the wavelength stability. Atomic transitions with fixed optical wavelengths can be stable to parts in 10. Such atomic transitions are used in the atomic clocks that interrogate hyperfine transitions in atoms by lasers. Ready made technology is available to enable a miniature atomically stable laser source in the form of chip scale atomic clocks enabled by the combination of miniature VCSELs and miniature alkali metal vapor cells.

The inventors have recently used the stability of the wavelength to measure the position of a moving object attached to the camera. Co owned U.S. application Ser. No. 13 062 832 entitled OPTICAL GRID FOR HIGH PRECISION AND HIGH RESOLUTION METHOD OF WAFER SCALE NANOFABRICATION the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses a wafer scale nano metrology system for sensing position of a nanofabrication element using a Nano Optical Ruler Imaging System NORIS developed by the instant inventor. Further details about NORIS are described in Yoshimizu et al. OPTICS EXPRESS Vol. 18 No. 20 27 Sep. 2010 the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Using NORIS and the stability of the laser we can measure the position of the rotor with the inertial sensors. The rotor angle and offset are important for inertial sensor characterization especially for gyro compassing where the rotor will be rotated by 180 degrees and needs to be at a known angle within an arc second to achieve ppm bias and scale factor calculation. To measure the angle of the rotor to 1 arc second one must measure the edge position of a 1 mm radius rotor with 

Here Mis the maximum magnitude of the n 1derivative of f x . If the data points are equally spaced with constant step size h this being the pixel size in the imager then the local error of the polynomial interpolation e x f x P x is bounded as 

The error decreases if the step size h becomes smaller with a fixed number of data points n 1 . For a typical diffraction pattern such as f x Sin c kx the nderivative at a null point kx is

In addition to knowing the position of the rotor on which the inertial sensor is attached to it is also possible to read the inertial sensors optically. There have been many implementations of optical readout of motion optically. These methods include interferometric techniques that require precise alignment. Other methods include gratings in which case the wavelength is not stabilized. In the specific field of inertial sensors there have been attempts to realize optically readout of the proof masks. These techniques have led to the realization that even though the sensors can be made the long term stability of the sensors suffers much like other miniature inertial sensors due to drifts in gaps and no independent standard of nature used to measure these changes.

In addition to measuring motion on the platforms it is also possible to measure the dimensions of the devices being imaged by interpolating the pattern measured by the imager. In this mode of operation the stable laser device structure allows in situ measurement of gaps masses and orientation. These measurements can be used in advanced analytical modeling of device performance that can predict the sensitivity and the bias based on learning models. Thus long term stable measurement of a few devices parameters with built in metrology may enable correction of sensor performance.

An embodiment of the invention is an inertial sensor calibration method. An exemplary method includes the steps of providing a microelectromechanical MEM device including a base and at least one inertial sensor physically coupled to the base having a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value upon measurement which is configured to generate a diffraction pattern upon illumination from a stabilized optical source providing a stabilized optical source coupled to the base in such a manner that there is no relative movement between the optical source and the base projecting a stabilized optical source output onto the inertial sensor and generating a diffraction pattern therefrom detecting the diffraction pattern with one of an electronic image sensor and a light field detector and using the detected diffraction pattern to measure the actual respective parameter value and to determine a relationship between the designed parameter value and the actual respective parameter value for calibrating the inertial sensor. In all of the embodiments described herein the term fiducial refers to an internally fixed reference such as e.g. a stationary diffraction grating. According to various exemplary non limiting aspects the method may include some or all of the following features or characteristics 

An embodiment of the invention is an inertial sensor calibration apparatus. An exemplary apparatus includes a base a stabilized output optical source fixedly attached to the base at least one inertial sensor characterized by a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value coupled to the base at least two fiducials wherein at least one of the fiducials is connected to at least one inertial sensor and at least one fiducial is connected to the base and at least one of an image sensor and a light field sensor disposed to receive diffracted output source light from at least two fiducials. According to various exemplary non limiting aspects the apparatus may include some or all of the following features or characteristics 

An embodiment of the invention is an inertial sensor calibration apparatus. An exemplary apparatus includes a base a stabilized output optical source fixedly attached to the base a platform disposed on the base in an optical path of the source output wherein the platform is moveable with respect to the base a grating accelerometer based inertial sensor i.e. a diffraction grating including a proof mass characterized by a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value disposed on the platform in the optical path of the source output a fiducial component disposed on the platform in the optical path of the source output a fiducial component disposed on the base in the optical path of the source output and at least one of an image sensor and a light field sensor disposed to receive diffracted output source light from the grating accelerometer based inertial sensor the fiducial component disposed on the platform and the fiducial component disposed on the base. According to various exemplary non limiting aspects the apparatus may include some or all of the following features or characteristics 

An embodiment of the invention is an inertial sensor calibration apparatus. An exemplary apparatus includes a base a stabilized output optical source fixedly attached to the base a platform disposed on the base in an optical path of the source output wherein the platform is moveable with respect to the base at least one of an inertial sensor and a compass sensor disposed on the platform wherein the inertial sensor or the compass sensor includes a fiducial that is disposed in the optical path of the source output further wherein either the inertial sensor and or the compass sensor is characterized by a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value a fiducial component disposed on the platform in the optical path of the source output a fiducial component disposed on the base in the optical path of the source output and at least one of an image sensor and a light field sensor disposed to receive diffracted output source light from the diffraction grating the fiducial component disposed on the platform and fiducial component disposed on the base. According to various exemplary non limiting aspects the apparatus of the instant embodiment and the other apparatus embodiments where appropriate described herein may include some or all of the following features or characteristics 

These and other objects advantages and benefits provided by embodiments of the invention will now be set forth in detail with reference to the detailed description and the drawing figures and as defined in the appended claims.

An exemplary inertial sensor calibration apparatus is illustrated in . The principal components of apparatus include a base a stabilized output optical source fixedly attached to the base see so that there is no relative motion between the source and the base at least one inertial sensor three shown characterized by a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value coupled to the base at least two fiducials in the form of fixed diffraction gratings four shown wherein at least one of the diffraction gratings is connected to the at least one inertial sensor and at least one diffraction grating is connected here shown integrated to the base and an imager either an image sensor or a light field sensor disposed above the inertial sensor so as to receive diffracted output source light from at least two diffraction gratings. The designed parameter value and the actual respective parameter value may be either a range of motion value or a distance value.

This and the other exemplary embodiments described herein borrow certain structural components and operational methodology from NORIS described in the 832 patent and Yoshimizu et al. id . As in NORIS the stabilized output optical source may be a laser stabilized by an atomic transition which thus produces a constant of nature output i.e. an illumination pattern providing a distance constant of nature that will not change over time with temperature or with shock and vibration. Stable optical sources can be accomplished in many ways with the wavelength stability and or accuracy improving as the source volume power and complexity increase. For example trapped ion optical standards achieve wavelength uncertainties as low as 10 but are typically the size of a small room. A simple unstabilized laser on the other hand has a wavelength that varies with temperature injection current and strain and is highly dependent on the fabrication process. The wavelength uncertainty of such a source is about 10. Traditional large scale atomic optical wavelength references use either co vibrational transitions in polyatomic molecules I CH CH etc. or electronic transitions in alkali or alkaline earth atoms or ions. Molecular transitions can have very narrow optical linewidths resulting in good stability and overall uncertainty but do not lend themselves well to miniaturization because the transitions are very weak. Alkaline earth atoms form the basis for most large scale modern optical lattice clocks but require quite high oven temperatures hundreds of degrees C. to reach a sufficient atomic density. For a micro sized integrated apparatus having demanding simultaneous constraints on size power and wavelength stability of the optical source as embodied herein the saturated absorption spectrum in Rb on the D2 transition wavelength 780 nm natural linewidth 6 MHz or the two photon transition from the 5sstate to the 5D wavelength 778 nm natural linewidth 

While miniaturization of atomically stable lasers continues an example of a 1 cc system in the form of a Chip Scale Atomic Clock CSAC is commercially available. The system consists of a light source such as a VCSEL which is incident on a micromachined gas cell of rubidium or cesium vapor. The miniature cell is suspended by tethers to thermally isolate it for low power heating to create metal vapor in cells.

An aperture or other optical component not shown may be used to condition the output from the source so that it illuminates all of the intended structures to generate the desired diffraction patterns.

This and the other exemplary calibration apparatus described herein provide for nanometer and sub nanometer calibration parts per billion by illuminating the diffraction gratings of the inertial sensor and on the base with the optical source output to generate diffraction patterns which upon detection see can be analyzed e.g. as described herein above to measure the actual parameter value and to determine a relationship between the designed parameter value and the actual respective parameter value for calibrating the inertial sensor.

Another inertial sensor calibration apparatus is illustrated in . The apparatus includes a base a stabilized output optical source fixedly attached to the base a platform is moveable with respect to the base a grating accelerometer based inertial sensor characterized by a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value disposed on the platform in an optical path not shown of the source output a fiducial component disposed on the platform in the optical path of the source output a fiducial component disposed on the base in the optical path of the source output and an imager disposed to receive diffracted output source light from the grating accelerometer the fiducial component disposed on the platform and the fiducial component disposed on the base. The platform may be a MEM platform and the grating accelerometer based inertial sensor may be manufacturably integrated in the platform as illustrated in

A schematic example of the grating accelerometer as referred to herein is illustrated in . The grating accelerometer includes a fixed grating structure having gold coating a proof mass moving mass reflecting gold gratings on the proof mass as shown in the figure indicates reflecting gold gratings both on proof mass and fixed mass and spring . is an enlarged view of the actual grating accelerometer illustrated in as shown characterized by a mass 4.38E 11 kg spring constant 0.17 N m resonant frequency of 10.151 kHz acceleration mr radial and displacement sensitivity 2.401 nm g. are SEMs showing the grating accelerometer integrated into MUMPS process flow in Poly 2 over a Poly 1 rotor illustrating the movable set of fingers that form one alternating set of grating fingers and the other set attached to the rotor. As acceleration is applied either from the rotor motion or to the entire substrate the gap between the grating and the bottom rotor changes modifying the reflected or transmitted diffraction pattern from the grating.

Another inertial sensor calibration apparatus is illustrated in and or with reference to . The apparatus includes a base a stabilized output optical source fixedly attached to the base a platform disposed on the base in an optical path of the source output wherein the platform is moveable with respect to the base either an inertial sensor or a compass sensor disposed on the platform wherein the inertial sensor or the compass sensor comprises a fiducial component that is disposed in the optical path of the source output further wherein the inertial sensor or the compass sensor is characterized by a designed parameter value and an actual respective parameter value a fiducial component disposed on the platform in the optical path of the source output a fiducial component disposed on the base in the optical path of the source output and at least one image sensor or a light field sensor disposed to receive diffracted output source light from the fiducial component disposed on the sensor the fiducial component disposed on the platform and the fiducial component disposed on the base. Wire bonds are attached between the sensor and the base to allow platform dithering as well as capacitive readout in addition to the principal optical calibration technique of the embodied method and apparatus. As herein above the designed parameter value and the actual respective parameter value are advantageously either a range of motion value or a distance value. As indicated herein above the fiducials advantageously are fixed diffraction gratings.

The rotor includes a plurality of fixed fiducials in the form of diffraction gratings and integrated MEM inertial sensing elements in the form of grating accelerometers . The base includes a plurality of fixed fiducials also in the form of diffraction gratings. Referring also to for clarity the fixed diffraction grating fiducials on the base are oriented such that when corresponding fixed diffraction grating fiducials disposed on the platform rotate past the base fiducials the relative grating orientation is either perpendicular or parallel. The grating accelerometers also have mutually perpendicular orientations. Although grating accelerometers as shown in were custom fabricated sensors made using the PolyMUMPS process and integrated into the platform inertial sensor elements may be units that are commercially available from various inertial sensor manufacturers.

In the art bias elimination remains challenging. For example a Kionix 3 axis accelerometer KXM52 exhibits scale factor and bias drifts of a 0.5 corresponding to 5 000 ppm shifts even after temperature and humidity treatment. One way to eliminate biases is to calibrate the biases actively in the sensor package itself. Micro scale stable rotating platforms with integrated inertial sensors hold the promise of performing in situ gyroscope and accelerometer sensor calibration by applying known accelerations and rotation rates. The biases can be measured by measuring signals with sensors at known angles. However for proper calibration of the inertial sensor scale factor the rotation of the platform needs to be free of secondary features that can complicate sensor signals. For example a rotating platform needs to rotate smoothly without actuator artifacts such as jerks. Hence it is critical to rotate the sensor platform without any physical contact. This is equivalent to suspending the rotor during calibration.

Many previous proofs of principles exist for suspending rotating platforms. Magnetic suspension has been shown using diamagnetic rotors. In the magnetic case high currents are typically needed to generate sufficient magnetic field gradients for levitation. Electrostatic suspension has been achieved in implementing a gyroscope itself but relatively high voltages and vacuum are needed to achieve flotation and vacuum operation. An alternative to electromagnetic forces is to use fluidic forces to suspend rotating platforms. An alternative to suspended operation is to use viscous drag forces induced by acoustic and dynamical forces. By actuating a plate at its ultrasonic resonant modes the resulting acoustic streaming and acoustic radiation forces can be used to levitate the rotor.

Upon illumination from a 650 nm laser VCSEL diode Thorlabs L650P007 a diffraction pattern was recorded and digitally analyzed. The diffraction patterns from gratings and are orthogonal to each other and can be used to measure and calibrate the designed motion and the actual motion the grating accelerometer. The change in the accelerometer grating response is measured as a function of rotation rate.

An optical grating accelerometer was implemented on the rotor with built in self calibrating gratings. The accelerometer consists of a set of grating reflecting fingers implemented in MUMPS gold that move in circumferential direction as a result of acceleration with springs. In the middle of the moving fingers are fixed gold reflecting lines. The accelerometer provides diffraction patterns recorded by a CMOS imager with interference between light reflecting from the accelerometer and the fixed gratings.

An embodiment of a packaged self calibrating inertial sensor system as embodied herein is illustrated in . The overall size of this system can be as small as 2.5 2.5 4 mm to 1 1 1 cm including the stabilized laser source imager s ultrasonic motor inertial sensor s and fiducials base and electronics. Such a device may be incorporated into portable electronics such as e.g. cell phones and GPS receivers. The power consumption of the imager laser and the sensor chip will be in the range of only a few to tens of milliwatts for a low total power of 10 mw to higher power levels of 100 s of mW. The self calibration portion of the package which includes the laser and the imager can be turned off and used periodically as needed. In this case the rotatable platform could be held in place by normally closed brakes. If the inertial sensors are being used with optical interrogation the laser will not be turned off. The stabilized laser chip emits the optical beam through an orifice for beam conditioning. The orifice is located within the imager. Typically imagers are not provided with holes in the center but can be custom designed such that they will operate even after creating a hole in the center. Traditionally the wires to access the pixels arranged in a rectangular array are placed in a two dimensional rectangular grid. However for an orifice to exist wires have to be placed to get around the orifice. For this to occur a special layout of the imager can be done such that the wiring to access the pixels is formed around the orifice. Alternatively a set of imagers can be concatenated to create an effective orifice. In another aspect a regular imager can be placed on the sides of the package or on the opposite side of the sensor platform with the sensor platform having orifices to transmit the light. Wires or wirebonds coming off the imager chips provide the power and information lines from the imagers. The light beam is incident on the sensor rotor chip from which the light reflects off and is incident on the imagers. The sensor platform is shown with an integrated ultrasonic motor with integrated grating inertial sensors. A PZT platform is shown with two wires for electrical activation. The PZT platform and the sensor platform can be in the size range of 1 mm 1 mm to 3 mm 3 mm. Imager chips of this size can incorporate many pixels as pixel sizes tend to be 1 1 umto 10 10 umfor imager technologies.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties to the extent allowed and as if each reference was individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and was set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening.

The recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein.

All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not impose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.

No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. There is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

