---

title: Recording, monitoring, and analyzing driver behavior
abstract: A system that monitors, records and analyzes driver performance includes: a vehicle sensor module that receives data from a set of sensors that each measure a driving characteristic associated with a vehicle; a map data access module that retrieves map data elements indicating various features associated with a path of the vehicle including a set of previously-defined segments, each segment having a set of associated joints each including a set of associated attributes including a set of fixed attributes with unchanging values; and a driver behavior engine that monitors and evaluates driver performance; calculates mathematical differences between a set of evaluation curves and each of multiple corresponding performance curves based on the set of measured driving characteristics, where the mathematical differences are quantified by determining a geometrical area between each evaluation curve and each corresponding performance curve, where the curves are associated with a particular driver and a particular trip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569984&OS=09569984&RS=09569984
owner: Abalta Technologies, Inc.
number: 09569984
owner_city: Torrance
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
Many entities may wish to improve performance by reducing and or eliminating accidents abuse operating maintenance and or replacement expenses and or other costs associated with operating one or more vehicles. The economic environmental and social value of such benefits is significant especially for commercial fleets and overall driving safety.

There exists a large and growing market for vehicle monitoring systems and methods that facilitate the collection of information related to the contributing causes of vehicle incidents such as accidents and provide objective driver evaluation to determine the quality of driving practices. There is also a market for systems and methods for recording various operating parameters over time so as to provide a historical driver profile record to uncover deviations from suggested driving practices which may further improve driving behavior.

Recent advances for such systems and methods include relying on global navigation satellite systems GNSS to track vehicle operation as well as additional sensors such as gyroscopes accelerometers wheel speed pulse etc. which allow various driving behaviors such as speeding and sudden acceleration to be determined. However existing solutions don t analyze driver behavior in the context of a map which provides a model of real world paths e.g. roads . Furthermore existing solutions are limited to discrete analysis and do not allow continuous evaluation of driver performance.

Thus there is a need for a driver behavior engine that accurately monitors various parameters to allow analysis of driving behaviors and that provides contiguous evaluation elements for such driving behaviors.

Some embodiments may provide a system to monitor record and or evaluate driver behaviors and or performance. Such behaviors may include driving characteristics such as speed acceleration stopping turning gear shifting and yaw rate. Various vehicle sensors may be used to determine the various driving characteristics. A warning module provided by some embodiments may be able to warn drivers about driving hazards unsafe driving practices and or potential events.

Some embodiments may include vehicle specific and or driver specific profiles that may affect various parameters. Some embodiments may determine optimal performance levels for various behaviors. Some embodiments may determine various thresholds for various behaviors.

One exemplary embodiment provides a system that monitors records and analyzes driver performance includes a vehicle sensor module that receives data from a set of sensors that each measure a driving characteristic associated with a vehicle a map data access module that retrieves map data elements indicating various features associated with a path of the vehicle including a set of previously defined segments each segment having a set of associated points each including a set of associated attributes including a set of fixed attributes with unchanging values and a driver behavior engine that monitors and evaluates driver performance calculates mathematical differences between a set of evaluation curves and each of multiple corresponding performance curves based on the set of measured driving characteristics where the mathematical differences are quantified by determining a geometrical area between each evaluation curve and each corresponding performance curve where the curves are associated with a particular driver and a particular trip.

Another exemplary embodiment provides an automated method of evaluating driver performance when operating a vehicle. The method includes receiving a set of map data elements indicating various features associated with a path of the vehicle receiving a set of measured parameters from a set of sensors associated with the vehicle defining a set of evaluation curves based on the received set of map data elements and comparing each evaluation curve from the set of evaluation curves to a performance curve generated at least partly based on the set of measured parameters.

Yet another exemplary embodiment provides a curve based method of analyzing driver behavior when operating a vehicle. The method includes generating a set of reference curves based at least partly on a profile associated with the vehicle and a particular driver generating a measured performance curve based at least partly on data received from a set of sensors adapted to measure various parameters associated with the vehicle and comparing the set of reference curves to the measured performance curve.

The preceding Summary is intended to serve as a brief introduction to some embodiments of the invention. It is not meant to be an introduction or overview of all inventive subject matter disclosed in this document. The Detailed Description that follows and the Drawings or Figures or FIGs. that are referred to in the Detailed Description will further describe the embodiments described in the Summary as well as other embodiments. Accordingly to understand all the embodiments described by this document a full review of the Summary Detailed Description and the Drawings is needed. Moreover the claimed subject matter is not to be limited by the illustrative details in the Summary Detailed Description and the Drawings but rather is to be defined by the appended claims because the claimed subject matter may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention.

In the following detailed description of the invention numerous details examples and embodiments of the invention are set forth and described. However it will be clear and apparent to one skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth and that the invention may be practiced without some of the specific details and examples discussed.

Broadly an embodiment of the present invention generally provides a system to monitor record and evaluate driver behavior. Such a system may use vehicle sensors to determine various driving characteristics such as speed acceleration stopping turning yaw rate etc. The system may use map data and vehicle position information to create driver behavior curves that may be used to define various thresholds for various driving parameters. Some embodiments may use a warning module to generate warning events to drivers in various driving circumstances. Some embodiments may include methods to collect and store data predict future driving paths analyze driver behavior and provide offline analysis.

Several more detailed embodiments of the invention are described in the sections below. Section I provides a conceptual description of the driver behavior engine architecture. Section II describes a curve based approach to driver reporting and or analysis. Section III then describes path based data and or analysis. Next Section IV describes probabilistic weighting of driving events in some embodiments. Section V then describes various methods of operation used to generate and modify profiles collect and store data predict driving paths provide warnings to drivers and provide offline analysis. Section VI includes examples of driver behavior curves for driver characteristics such as speed safety acceleration yaw rate and stopping. Section VII then describes a process used to define an application of some embodiments. Lastly Section VIII describes a computer system which may implement some of the embodiments of the invention.

The in vehicle subsystem may be included in a car truck motorcycle watercraft aircraft and or any other appropriate vehicle that is able to be operated directly and or remotely. The vehicle may be adapted to house various elements of the driver behavior engine . The system may be adapted to communicate with multiple vehicles either serially or in parallel. For instance each of a set of fleet vehicles may independently communicate with the server of some embodiments.

The set of vehicle sensors may include GNSS sensors such as global positioning system GPS global navigation satellite systems GLONASS Galileo etc. inertial sensors i.e. gyroscopes accelerometers etc. wheel speed sensors differential speed sensors radar sensors outside temperature sensors laser sensors camera sensors and or any other appropriate sensors. The sensors may provide information related to the vehicle such as speed odometer readings revolutions per minute RPMs pedal position e.g. gas brake clutch etc. turn signal indications fuel level battery charge level gear position etc. The sensors may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine in various appropriate ways e.g. using a serial bus such as a controller area network CAN bus using wireless communication links etc. . Although the sensors are represented as physical elements with direct communication pathways to the driver behavior engine one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that systems of some embodiments may receive data associated with one or more sensors over an existing bus or other communication interface and or through one or more processing modules without communicating directly with any some or all of the sensors.

The driver behavior engine may be adapted to communicate with the vehicle sensors set of storages set of user interfaces set of communication interfaces and or other system components. The driver behavior engine may be adapted to analyze and or record data regarding driving behavior.

The set of storages may include various files and or databases that relate to various vehicle characteristics recorded data map databases and or other parameters and or information. For example the set of storages may include information regarding a vehicle user and or different applications e.g. safety fuel efficiency teen driving etc. associated with the vehicle and or user. The set of storages may include parameters that define which types of behavior curves to support and or how to calculate various safety curves and or optimal curves. For instance optimal speed curves for an inexperienced teenage driver may be different than optimal speed curves for an experienced driver. Likewise optimal speed curves for a large sport utility vehicle SUV may be different than speed curves for a coupe. The set of storages may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine and or other elements as appropriate.

The optional user interfaces may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine and to provide various input output features to a system user. The user interfaces may be adapted to allow a user to interact with the driver behavior engine in various appropriate ways e.g. by displaying data by receiving inputs through a touchscreen and or keyboard etc. . Each user interface may include various appropriate elements e.g. buttons icons etc. that may allow a user to control and or interact with the system. The optional user interface may include non visual indicators such as sound and or be integrated with various in vehicle indicators such as a vibrating seat steering wheel controls etc.

The optional set of communication interfaces may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine and or other system elements an optional user device and or the server via network s . The set of communication interfaces data and or instructions to be sent among the server s a user device storages driver behavior engine and or other system elements. The set of communication interfaces may communicate and or translate data using various appropriate methods and or protocols.

The user device may be adapted to communicate and or otherwise interact with the system through communication interface . The user device may be a mobile device tablet PC and or any other appropriate device. The user device may allow a user to download information from the system and or upload information to the system as appropriate.

The network s may allow communication among the system and various external resources e.g. server s . The network s may include one or more local networks wireless networks sets of networks e.g. the Internet etc. The server s may process and or store data received from and or sent to the various system elements through the network s .

During operation a vehicle user may invoke the system e.g. by activating an application by powering on a vehicle etc. . The driver behavior engine may then download one or more driver and or vehicle profiles from the storages . Such driver and or vehicle profiles may be associated with one or more users of the system. During operation of the vehicle the various sensors may collect information related to the operation and or performance of the vehicle. Such information may be passed to storage and or may otherwise be manipulated. The driver behavior engine may continuously retrieve information related to the measured and or predicted path s of the vehicle. Such information may be passed directly to the storage and or analyzed in various ways e.g. by comparing such measured information to various thresholds to determine whether a warning should be issued . Such warnings and or other feedback may be provided to an optional user interface . Alternatively such information may be stored to storage s without any indication to a driver or other user. In addition such information may be transmitted to the server s over the network s such that the information may be stored and or analyzed in real time and or offline.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the system is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance various elements may be removed and or various other elements may be included. In addition multiple elements may be combined into a single element and or a single element may be divided into multiple elements. Furthermore various other communication pathways may be utilized and or included.

As described above and below the driver behavior engine may include software and or hardware elements that may perform driver analyses based on various data. The driver behavior engine may be adapted to communicate with vehicle sensor module profile database map data access module positioning engine path prediction engine warning module user interface module and or event logging engine .

The profile database may include sets of files that store and or define various vehicle and or user characteristics. The profile database may include different profiles for different vehicles different users and or different applications e.g. safety fuel efficiency teen driving etc. . The profile database may include parameters that define which behavior curves to support and or how to calculate various safety curves and or optimal curves. The profile database may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine and or various other system elements.

The map database may store data related to roads and or terrain and may include information such as elevation surface type steepness curve radius etc. In addition the map database may store data related to various features e.g. information regarding speed limits traffic signals and or signage number of travel lanes road classes etc. and or attributes of the environment e.g. traffic conditions traffic patterns construction notices weather forecasts etc. . The map database may be adapted to communicate with the map data access module .

The map data access module may provide efficient database format independent access to the map database . The map data access module may be adapted to receive information from the map database and or communicate with the driver behavior engine the positioning engine and or the path prediction engine .

The positioning engine may be adapted to receive information from the vehicle sensors and the map data access module . The positioning engine may process the received information to determine a position of the vehicle. The positioning engine may be adapted to send such determined position information to the driver behavior engine and or the path prediction engine . The positioning engine may include various software modules that are responsible for receiving vehicle positioning sensor information such as GPS inertial sensors etc. and matching the received information to a position on a road segment from the map database . The positioning engine may return a set of map segments each with an associated probability. The positioning engine may be used to identify map segments associated with the vehicle travel path and construct a vehicle map path based at least partly on the identified map segments.

The path prediction engine may be adapted to receive information from the vehicle sensor module the map data access module and the positioning engine . The path prediction engine may be adapted to send information to the driver behavior engine . The path prediction engine may process the received information in order to predict a set of driving paths of the vehicle ahead of the current vehicle position. Such path prediction will be described in more detail in Section III below.

The warning module may be adapted to receive information from the driver behavior engine and or communicate with the user interface module . The warning module may provide real time warnings and or guidance to drivers. The warning module may for example display information on a vehicle display head unit instrument cluster dashboard and or any other appropriate location. The warning module may be adapted to emit sounds and or voice commands warnings. The warning module may be adapted to provide other warning methods such as seat and or steering wheel vibration colored and or flashing lights written messages and or any other appropriate warning method. Such warnings may be based on various appropriate factors.

The user interface module may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine and the warning module . The user interface module may be adapted to provide information and or warnings to a user and or allow the user to interact with the driver behavior engine . The user interface module may include various appropriate elements e.g. buttons icons etc. that may allow a user to control and or interact with the system.

The event logging engine may be adapted to receive information from the driver behavior engine and send information to the data log database . The event logging engine may continuously record received information. Such received information may include vehicle sensor information map information warning information driver behavior information environmental information and or other appropriate information.

The data log database may be adapted to receive information from the event logging engine . The data log database may store information received from the event logging engine including warning events driver characteristics vehicle characteristics etc.

The vehicle sensor module may receive measured data from at least one vehicle sensor. A single vehicle sensor module may receive data from multiple vehicle sensors and multiple vehicle sensor types. The sensor types may include GNSS sensors GPS GLONASS Galileo Beidou etc. inertial sensors i.e. gyro accelerometers etc. radar sensors laser sensors camera sensors and or any other appropriate sensors. The sensors may provide various sensor information available from the vehicle such as speed odometer readings revolutions per minute RPMs gas pedal position differential speed pulse brake pedal position turn signal indications fuel level battery charge level front shield wipers status outside temperature gear position etc. The vehicle sensor module may be adapted to communicate with the driver behavior engine the positioning engine and or the path prediction engine as appropriate.

During operation the vehicle sensor module may send sensor information to the positioning engine driver behavior engine and or the path prediction engine . The map data access module may retrieve map information from the map database and send efficient and database formatted map information to the driver behavior engine the positioning engine and or the path prediction engine . The positioning engine may use information received from the vehicle positioning sensor s to match the vehicle position to a position on a road segment received from the map data access module .

The path prediction engine may be used to predict the path of a vehicle ahead of a current position. The path prediction engine may use information received from the vehicle sensor module the positioning engine and the map data access module to determine the most likely path a vehicle will take and calculate various probabilities of taking various different paths.

The driver behavior engine may perform driver analyses based on current position information received from the positioning engine predicted path information received from the path prediction engine map database information received from the map data access and or other vehicle sensor information received from vehicle sensor module . The driver behavior engine may use profile information from the profile database that define expected driver behavior vehicle characteristics and or different types of applications. In addition the driver behavior engine may estimate driver behavior values e.g. speed acceleration etc. and assign probabilities to the associated estimated values.

The driver behavior engine may generate driver behavior curves based on a vehicle s current position a vehicle s predicted path profile information and or map information and or may compare the behavior curves with expected curves taking into account various probabilities. The driver behavior engine may generate warning events and or calculate a driver behavior score as appropriate. The driver behavior engine may update profiles based on measurable input from the vehicle sensor module and provide a self learning system. The driver behavior engine may send various driving data to the event logging engine which in turn may send data to the data log database . Data stored in the data log database may be used for offline post processing and analysis.

The warning module may receive information from the driver behavior engine and may communicate with the user interface module . The warning module may be configured to provide safety warnings alerts and or guidance messages to drivers to improve their driving skills provide and improve safety monitor and improve fuel efficiency teach and or improve teen driving etc.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the architecture is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the architecture may be implemented as an embedded system i.e. some or all of the elements may be provided by a device such as a computer . As another example various elements may be removed and or various other elements may be included. In addition multiple elements may be combined into a single element and or a single element may be divided into multiple elements. Furthermore various other communication pathways may be utilized and or included.

The various system elements may be similar to those elements described above in reference to . Such elements may be adapted to evaluate various data streams as if they were presented during in vehicle operation.

The reporting engine may be adapted to receive information from the driver behavior engine and or communicate with the user interface module . The reporting engine may process various driving data and generate reports based upon received data. Such reports may include descriptions of driving events suggestions for improving driving behavior etc.

The user interface module may communicate with the driver behavior engine and or the reporting engine . The user interface module may be adapted to allow a user to interact with the driver behavior engine . For instance the user interface module may receive reports from the reporting engine and convert the reports to a user readable format.

During operation the driver behavior engine may receive profile information from the profile database map data from the map data access positioning information from the positioning engine and other vehicle sensor information from the data log database . The driver behavior engine may use this information to construct optimal and critical curves and compare the constructed curves with the drive curves from the vehicle.

The driver behavior engine may use the optimal curves and critical curves to create warning or violation events calculate a driving score. This information may be sent along with various other data to the reporting engine for further processing. Information processed by the reporting engine may be converted to a user readable form by the user interface module . For example data in the reporting engine can be generated into a written report by the user interface module . The user interface module may also allow a user to input information into the driver behavior engine . Other embodiments may include user interface modules with computer screens graphic data etc.

Some embodiments of system may be implemented using various web services and or web based user interfaces UIs such as may be provided using a browser. In some embodiments third party applications may be able to access some or all elements of the system through an application programming interface API and or other appropriate ways.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the architecture is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance various elements may be removed and or various other elements may be included. In addition multiple elements may be combined into a single element and or a single element may be divided into multiple elements. Furthermore various other communication pathways may be utilized and or included.

Each vehicle profile data element may include a vehicle profile ID vehicle information vehicle attributes type specific attributes and or other sub elements. Vehicle information may include for instance a vehicle s make model VIN etc. Vehicle attributes may include for instance a vehicle s weight cross section drive train efficiency etc. Vehicle type specific attributes may include for instance information such as an electric vehicle s maximum battery charge a gross weight of a vehicle etc.

Each driver profile data element may include for example a driver profile ID driver scores trip attributes and or other sub elements. Driver scores or drive style factors may include for instance various scores for different observable driving characteristics. For example a driver may have different scores for braking acceleration safe turning fuel efficient driving etc. Trip attributes may include for instance such information as load weight type of load e.g. passengers cargo hazardous materials etc. and or vehicle configuration e.g. number size of wheels whether trailers are present etc. .

Each rule data element may include a rule ID rule attributes and or other sub elements as appropriate. A rule may include various specific elements depending on the type of rule being implemented and any attributes that may be associated with the rule. A rule may be used to identify one or more driving events and or other appropriate performance criteria . For instance in some embodiments a rule may include a threshold which may be defined as a curve and the rule may identify an event whenever sensed data e.g. driving speed exceeds the threshold. As another example in some embodiments a rule may include multiple thresholds. Such a rule may include a first threshold which may be defined as a curve and a second threshold which may be defined as an area or a length of time . When the first threshold is exceeded the rule may identify a potential event where the potential event may not be classified as an event until the second threshold is exceeded e.g. when an amount of time exceeding the threshold has passed when an area defined between a set of curves exceeds a threshold value etc. .

Each map data element may include link or segment data i.e. a stretch of road between two intersections where the link attributes remain the same and or node data i.e. a connection point between road links . Link data may include for instance a link ID link attributes e.g. functional class road type posted speed limit speed category link length etc. link travel direction link shape from node ID i.e. identifier of a node at the beginning of the link to node ID i.e. identifier of the node at the end of the link driving restriction data e.g. physical logical time restricted etc. and or other sub elements. Node data may include for instance a node ID a set of connect link IDs and or other sub elements. Using this structure node and link entities may be used to define a connected graph of a road network.

Each driving restriction data element may include for instance a restriction ID node ID from link ID s to link ID s restriction type s restriction attributes and or other sub elements. Types of restrictions may include for instance turn restrictions stop restrictions e.g. traffic lights stop signs etc. speed restrictions e.g. posted speed limits speeds for certain terrains and or conditions etc traffic restrictions weather restrictions school zone restrictions construction restrictions etc. Restriction attributes may include for instance specific data regarding certain driving restrictions e.g. time period of the restriction duration of the restriction etc. .

Each event log data element may include an event log ID driver ID vehicle profile ID location event type event description an optional sensor log and or other sub elements. The location data may include for instance latitude longitude current speed a vehicle s heading link ID which side of the road and or which lane a vehicle is traveling in a vehicle s distance from the beginning of the link etc. The event log may store information regarding various driving events e.g. turning hazards exceeding posted speed limits etc. .

Each driver log data element may include a driver log ID driver ID vehicle profile ID trip ID vehicle sensor log and or other sub elements. The driver log may store data regarding various driving trips e.g. time traveled distance traveled possible warning events gasoline and or electricity consumed etc. .

Each curve data element may include a curve ID and or other sub elements. Each other data element may include various other types of useful data which may include a particular ID and or other sub elements.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the data structure diagram is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance various elements may be removed and or various other elements may be included. In addition multiple elements may be combined into a single element and or a single element may be divided into multiple elements.

Some embodiments use curve based representation of various driver characteristics. Each such curve may be represented as a set of value points or equations. Storage and comparison among various curves may be performed by a common system component. Curves may be associated with paths which are described in more detail in Section III below. Example curves are described in more detail in Section VI below. Each curve may include multiple sections. Each section may be defined by a set of direct values or expressed as parameterized equations. Some embodiments may include a curve comparator that is able to compare one or more curves to each other and return statistics related to differences among the curves e.g. minimum maximum average etc. as well as geometrical features of the difference.

As shown in the x y plot may include an optimum curve a speed limit curve a warning level curve and a critical warning level curve . In the x y plot of distance is represented by the x axis and a sensed parameter is represented by the y axis.

The optimum curve may represent an optimum level for various sensed parameters e.g. speed acceleration braking yaw rate fuel efficiency etc. . For instance such an optimal curve may represent the speed at which fuel efficiency is maximized. The speed limit curve may represent the actual speed limit for a driving path. The warning level curve may represent a warning level for various sensed parameters. For instance the warning level curve may indicate various unsafe levels of speed acceleration braking yaw rate etc. The warning level curve may indicate a bottom level of various unsafe driving behaviors.

The critical warning level curve may represent a critical warning level for various sensed driving parameters. The critical warning level curve may indicate an upper level of various unsafe driving behaviors. For instance the critical warning level curve may indicate a level of various sensed driving parameters at which a driver may lose control of a vehicle fail to keep a vehicle in its current lane fail to maintain a safe stopping distance between other vehicles fail to maintain a safe turning speed etc.

During operation an actual behavior driving curve not shown may be generated e.g. based on a measured parameter of the vehicle and compared to one or more of the evaluation curves . Such comparison may result in identification and quantifications of various differences among the curves.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that curves are conceptual in nature and may be implemented and or represented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance various curves may have various parameters limits and or other appropriate features. In addition various other driving data may be utilized and or included.

Some embodiments may require accurate information regarding a current path and potential future path s of a vehicle. Thus some embodiments provide a common and efficient way to represent such paths while also reflecting probabilities associated with any future paths. Paths may be created for every deviation in a road network around a current position of the vehicle.

Each path e.g. each one of the example paths represents a set of points behind and ahead of the vehicle. Each path section may include an associated set of points . In addition each path e.g. each one of the example paths may include links to multiple path sections e.g. a preceding section and multiple potential future sections . Common sections may be shared among paths. In some embodiments each path section may include an equal number of points as each other path section. This allows for efficient storage in computer memory because path sections may be shared among the paths and section objects may be quickly allocated and reused as the path sections are the same size. Paths may be generated for every deviation in a road network near the current vehicle position. For instance a distinct path may be generated for each candidate path identified by a positioning engine. In addition paths may be branched i.e. new paths may be created for upcoming roads that also have a high probability of being traveled over as determined by a path prediction engine. Certain vehicle paths may be dropped as the path prediction engine determines probabilities associated with various candidate paths decrease below a configurable threshold. At the end of a driving session there may be one continuous path that represents the points where the vehicle has driven.

In the example in path is the least probable path the vehicle may take path is the most probable path the vehicle may take and path is more probable than path but less probable than path . The non candidate path is not included as a possible future driving path because the probability associated with the non candidate path is below a threshold value due to a heading and location that is improbable based on the current vehicle position and heading. The vehicle s current matched position may be determined by the positioning engine based on information received from the vehicle sensor module and map data access module . The possible future driving points may be determined from the driver behavior engine based on information received from the map data access module positioning engine path prediction engine and vehicle sensor module .

Path includes past driving points current vehicle position and future driving points. Path is a future probable driving path that partially overlaps path . Path is a probable driving path as determined from the driver behavior engine based on information received from the map data access module positioning engine path prediction engine and vehicle sensor module .

Driving points may be grouped into various path sections . A vehicle path section may represent a fixed number of driving points on the same map link. For any new link a new path section may be created. Also if a maximum number of points allowed per path section is reached a new path section may be created. A vehicle path may include multiple path sections and different paths may share path sections between each other.

As illustrated in for simplicity path sections are limited to four points. Different paths may typically share many of the same points which may allow minimization of memory usage and efficient processing. As shown path includes path sections PS PS path includes path sections PS PS and PS and path includes path sections PS PS PS PS and PS. Section PS is incomplete with only two nodes because of the current matched position of the vehicle and the possible future points shown in sections PS and PS. As the vehicle travels new driving points may be added to the vehicle paths which may result in points being added to the current path section and or predicted path sections and or old driving points may be removed from the past path sections. If a given path section is full a new section may be added. If the driver behavior engine is used only for post analysis the vehicle paths may not include any future driving points and sections.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the diagram is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance different embodiments may include different numbers of points in each section and or different numbers of sections along each path. In addition different embodiment may include different numbers of possible future paths depending on various relevant factors e.g. features of the available roadway s driver history etc. .

During operation a vehicle may be presented with various different potential paths e.g. a driver may leave one roadway to enter another roadway a driver may change lanes along a roadway etc. . Some embodiments may quantify the probability that any potential path will actually be followed. Such probabilities may be used to predict which potential path will be taken and or to provide probabilistic weighting of potential events e.g. a warning event .

The driving speed curve may indicate the actual speed of a vehicle. The data included in the actual speed curve may be measured by various appropriate elements e.g. vehicle sensors . The safe speed curve may indicate a safe speed for a vehicle to travel based on the associated geographical location. The associated geographical location may be matched to road links which may be retrieved from various appropriate components e.g. map database via positioning engine .

The predicted driving speed curve may indicate the predicted speed of a vehicle. The predicted driving speed curve may be at least partly based on various appropriate factors e.g. current measured speed of the vehicle acceleration deceleration map attributes information received from various sensors etc. . The predicted safe speed curve and the predicted safe speed curve may indicate predicted safe speeds for vehicles traveling on path and path respectively. The predicted safe speed curves for paths and may be determined at least partly based on vehicle characteristics map attributes including road curvatures road inclines declines road tilt road surface etc. posted speed limits weather conditions and or other appropriate factors.

The unsafe speed zone may indicate areas where the actual speed of the vehicle exceeds one or more safe speed thresholds defined by one or more safe speed curves e.g. curves and . The size of an unsafe speed zone and or any other characteristic that exceeds a threshold may be determined and may be used to quantify various aspects of driver performance. For instance an unsafe speed zone that is caused by a driver exceeding a threshold by a minimal amount for a long time e.g. driving a few miles over a speed limit for an extended time may be weighted less than an unsafe speed zone of the same size that is caused by a driver exceeding a threshold by a large amount for a short time e.g. failing to recognize a stop sign at a reasonable distance and coming to a skidding stop past an associated stop line . The geometrical area between a safety curve and a behavior curve may indicate the severity of a driving event and based on the severity the system may determine whether a warning signal should be issued. The severity of such a driving event may also be weighted with the probability of such occurrence when determining whether to issue a warning. For instance a relatively high probability of a minor event e.g. exceeding the speed limit by 2 mph may not trigger a warning while a relatively low probability of a major event e.g. approaching a road with high curvature at high speed may trigger a warning.

The current speed probability curve may indicate the probability of continuing to drive at the current speed based on one or more potential future paths of the vehicle and or other relevant factors . The current speed probability curve may be at least partly based on data received from various system elements e.g. path prediction engine . For instance one or more components may identify and retrieve possible paths from a map database or data element based on the current vehicle position. Such possible paths may be identified to a set distance e.g. a default distance a user defined distance a dynamically calculated distance and or otherwise appropriately determined distance . The safe speed probability curve may indicate probabilities of driving at a safe speed depending on the potential paths a vehicle may take and or the probability associated with each path .

The various points along the driving paths and may correlate with actual physical locations along a roadway and associated with points along the actual speed curve safe speed curve predicted speed curve predicted safe speed curves and current speed probability curve and safe speed probability curve . In this example point represents a past position of the vehicle. Information related to this past position e.g. vehicle speed safe speed etc. may be used to determine various future characteristics of the vehicle e.g. potential path probability safe speed etc. . Point represents a current position of the vehicle. Thus vehicle characteristics such as actual speed are known up to point at least as far back as point . Point represents a divergence to two potential paths and . Such a point may be for instance an intersection off ramp onramp and or other appropriate point where multiple future paths may be available. Points and represent potential future positions of the vehicle depending on which path or the vehicle takes. The various potential future positions may be on different roadways may be along different directions on the same roadway and or may otherwise include various potential locations available to the vehicle.

During operation some embodiments may continuously and or periodically evaluate multiple possible map paths based at least partly on the current vehicle position. As shown in the example in there could be two potential paths and that a vehicle may travel. Each path may have an associated probability that may be determined based on the current vehicle position information received from various vehicle sensors and or other relevant factors. For example one or more vehicle sensors may determine that the driver of the vehicle has activated a left turn indicator which may result in a determination of a higher probability of turning left than right. As another example a vehicle may follow a route from a navigation system which may result in a determination of a higher probability of taking a path which is along the route provided by the navigation system. As another example the path prediction engine may use the knowledge of the current lane the vehicle is on to determine the probability of turning right or left.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the diagram is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance various parameters may be removed and or various other parameters may be included. Furthermore various other driving data may be utilized and or included.

Next the process may receive at a request to generate and or modify a profile. Such a request may be received in various appropriate ways e.g. a user may make a selection using a user interface may update data associated with a system etc. . Such a profile may include information about one or more vehicles one or more drivers and or various driving applications. The process may then determine at whether or not there is an existing profile. Such a determination may be made by retrieving data from a profile database of some embodiments. If the process determines at that a profile already exists the process may then retrieve at the profile from the database. If the process determines at that the requested profile does not exist the process may generate at a new profile.

After either retrieving at the profile from the profile database or generating at a new profile process may then receive at vehicle information. Such information may include the vehicle type and various vehicle characteristics such as vehicle size vehicle dimensions turning radius engine power vehicle handling braking power tire type etc. The process may then receive at driver information. Such information may include driver age driver size and weight driving skills previous driving events etc. Next the process may receive at any other appropriate information. The information may be received at in various appropriate ways e.g. a user may enter data into a user interface a file having a particular format may be uploaded to a server or database etc. .

Process may then update at the profile with the received information. The process may then store at the profile to a database. After storing at the profile to the database the process may end.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that process is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the operations may be performed in different orders. As another example various operations may be omitted and or other operations may be included. Furthermore the process may be executed as part of a larger macro process and or divided into multiple sub processes. Moreover the process may be executed continuously at regular intervals based on certain criteria and or in other appropriate ways.

The process may then retrieve at a profile from a profile database. Such a profile may include information about the vehicle user and or the driving application e.g. commuting travel commercial delivery etc. . Next process may receive at data from various vehicle sensors. Such data may include speed acceleration yaw rate etc. The process may then receive at data from a positioning engine. Such data may include a vehicle position along a path and a list of potential paths associated with the current position. Such data may be at least partly based on the vehicle sensor data e.g. GPS data received at . The process may then retrieve at map information from a map database. Such map information may be at least partly based on the vehicle sensor data received at and or the data received at from the positioning engine. Next the process may receive at data from a path prediction engine. Such data may include a probability associated with each potential path.

Process may then process at the retrieved and or received data using a driver behavior engine and or other appropriate system components . Such processing may include comparing the data to various thresholds e.g. speed limits safe operating speeds etc. evaluating the data relative to an optimal performance standard e.g. determining deviations from a speed curve associated with optimal gas mileage and or other appropriate processing e.g. data smoothing and or filtering gain adjustments etc. . Next the process may update at the profile and send the updated profile to the profile database. The process may then store at an event log in an event log database. The event log may include data related to driving events and driving characteristics such as position speed acceleration yaw rate etc. Such an event log may include sets of data points associated with particular positions increments of time etc. After storing at the event log in the database the process may end.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that process is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the operations may be performed in different orders. As another example various operations may be omitted and or other operations may be included. Furthermore the process may be executed as part of a larger macro process and or divided into multiple sub processes. Moreover the process may be executed continuously at regular intervals based on certain criteria and or in other appropriate ways.

The process may then retrieve at a profile from a profile database. Such a profile may include information about one or more vehicles users and or driving applications. Process may then receive at data from vehicle sensors. Such data may include speed acceleration yaw rate etc. The process may then receive at data from a positioning engine. Such data may include a vehicle s position on a road and may be based at least partly on the data received from one or more vehicle sensors. Next the process may retrieve at map information from a map database. The retrieved information may be at least partly based on data received from the vehicle sensors and or from the positioning engine. Next the process may process at data using a path prediction engine to determine various prediction data. Such prediction data may include probabilities associated with different potential paths probabilities of different driver behaviors and or other predicted data and may be based at least partly on the retrieved map information received vehicle sensor data and or data received from the positioning engine.

Process may then generate at a set of prediction events with each event having an associated probability. Such events may include data related to predicted paths speeds potential collisions unsafe driving maneuvers etc. After generating at the set of prediction events the process may end.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that process is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the operations may be performed in different orders. As another example various operations may be omitted and or other operations may be included. Furthermore the process may be executed as part of a larger macro process and or divided into multiple sub processes. Moreover the process may be executed continuously at regular intervals based on certain criteria and or in other appropriate ways.

The process may then retrieve at a profile from a profile database. Such a profile may include information about one or more vehicles users and or driving applications. Process may then receive at data from various vehicle sensors. Such data may include speed acceleration yaw rate etc. Next the process may receive at data from a positioning engine. Such data may include a geographic position of the vehicle and may be based at least partly on the data received from the vehicle sensors.

The process may then retrieve at map information from a map database. Such map information may be retrieved at least partly based on the relevance of the information to the geographic position of the vehicle and or data received from the vehicle sensors. Next the process may receive at data from a path prediction engine. Such data may include probabilities of taking different paths and probabilities of different driver behaviors.

Process may then process at the received and or retrieved data using a driver behavior engine. Such processing may include generation of behavior curves predicted speed curves actual speed curves and or any other appropriate data elements. The process may then determine at whether a threshold has been exceeded. Such a threshold may be associated with various appropriate elements e.g. an optimum speed curve a speed limit curve an unsafe speed curve a critical speed curve etc. based on various appropriate parameters e.g. speed acceleration etc. . The determination of whether a threshold has been exceeded may be based on various mathematical comparisons between the received and or retrieved data and a set of thresholds that may be associated with the retrieved profile.

If the process determines at that a threshold has been exceeded the process may then send at a notification to a warning module. Next the process may provide at a warning to an operator of the vehicle e.g. by sounding an alarm activating a display element etc. and or record at the warning event to a server. After providing and or recording at the warning event or after determining at that a threshold has not been exceeded the process may end.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that process is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the operations may be performed in different orders. As another example various operations may be omitted and or other operations may be included. Furthermore the process may be executed as part of a larger macro process and or divided into multiple sub processes. Moreover the process may be executed continuously at regular intervals based on certain criteria and or in other appropriate ways.

The process may then receive at an analysis request. Such a request may be received in various appropriate ways e.g. from a user interface module as sets of data and or instructions that are able to be interpreted by the server and or application web services request etc. . Next the process may retrieve at a profile from a profile database. Such a profile may include information about one or more vehicles users and or driving applications that may be analyzed. Process may then retrieve at position and sensor log data from a driver behavior database. Such log data may include information such as vehicle position sensor readings etc. where the data elements are associated with various points along a path of the vehicle.

Next the process may receive at data from a positioning engine. Such data may include a vehicle s position. The process may then retrieve at map information from a map database. Such map information may be associated with the received position information e.g. sections of a map that are within a particular radius of the position of the vehicle as determined by the positioning engine may be retrieved . Process may then process at data using a driver behavior engine. The process may then send at the processed data to a reporting engine such that it is made available to the user analyzing the driver behavior. After the process sends at processed data to the reporting engine the process may end.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that process is conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the operations may be performed in different orders. As another example various operations may be omitted and or other operations may be included. Furthermore the process may be executed as part of a larger macro process and or divided into multiple sub processes. Moreover the process may be executed continuously at regular intervals based on certain criteria and or in other appropriate ways.

The following section describes various example behavior curves. Such curves may have different numbers of nodes sections and or other attributes. The curves may be used to evaluate any measurable parameter related to operation of a vehicle.

The reference curve and driver behavior curve are matched with the vehicle path . In other words the various points along curves and correspond to the nodes along path . The curves represent data points of some observable driver characteristic for every measured point along the associated vehicle path . For instance the example in shows a behavior curve represented by data points for driving speed other behavior curves may represent other driving characteristics such as braking turning acceleration fuel efficiency etc. .

Reference curve and behavior curve may include curve sections indicated by vertical dashed lines associated with vehicle path sections indicated by groupings of points . The curves may be divided into the same sections as the associated vehicle path and for every vehicle point there may be a corresponding actual or potential curve value. Curve section values may be stored differently in different embodiments. For instance curves may include a point for every vehicle point or the curve value may be represented via some equation linear Bezier etc. .

Representation of various driving characteristics as behavior curves allows continuous efficient monitoring recording and or analysis of driver behavior. In different embodiments there may be many different types of curves that may each be represented as a set of value points and or equations. A common curve module may be used to store and compare different curves and may provide a curve data management infrastructure to manage different types of curves.

The optimal speed curve may indicate an optimal speed for a vehicle along the path . The optimal speed curve may define the best expected values from monitored driving characteristics. Optimal speed curves may be used to guide driving performance over a range of conditions. Optimal speed curves may be used to optimize fuel efficiency drive time etc. The actual speed curve may indicate the actual speed of a vehicle. The actual speed curve may be measured by appropriate vehicle sensors.

The safe speed curve may indicate a safe speed for a vehicle to travel based on geographic location anticipated conditions and or events etc. The geographic location of the vehicle may be matched to road segments or path sections as determined by a component such as positioning engine based on data retrieved from a component such as map database . The safe speed curve may define bounds for which a safety alert may be issued. For instance if a given behavior curve crosses or exceeds a safety curve during operation of the vehicle a warning may be given and or recorded. Some embodiments of the invention may include multiple safety curves with different severity levels.

The speed violation zone may indicate unsafe speeds for a vehicle to travel based on a comparison of the actual speed curve to the safe speed curve . Likewise the unsafe turning speed zone may indicate unsafe turning speeds based on a comparison of the actual speed curve to the safe speed curve at a location along the path identified as a curve and or other appropriate feature which may depend on particular driver behavior s being evaluated . Driver behavior may be monitored recorded and or analyzed at least partly based on specific shapes and or sizes of such violation zones.

The vehicle path may be determined using various system resources e.g. elements of the systems described above in reference to . The path may be defined to include various elements such as the points and sections described above in reference to and .

In the example in speed values are shown for the given vehicle path . Each point on the vehicle path may correspond to a speed value for reference curves such as an optimal speed curve an actual speed curve and or a safe speed curve . A geographic location of the vehicle may be matched to road segments from a map database using a positioning engine. The driver behavior engine may use data related to the path and or selected profiles from a profile database to generate corresponding reference curves.

In the example of the first point indicates a starting point for the current evaluation segment. Such a starting point may be based on various algorithms and or parameters e.g. distance from the current position starting point of a navigation etc. . In this example the actual speed of the vehicle as represented by actual speed curve exceeds the optimal speed as represented by optimal speed curve but does not exceed the safe speed as represented by safe speed curve at point . As the vehicle moves along the path from point to point the actual speed exceeds the optimal speed and the safe speed as represented by zone . From point to point where the section is identified as a curve the actual speed exceeds the optimal speed and the safe speed as indicated by zone . After the vehicle passes point the actual speed drops below the safe speed threshold but still exceeds the optimal speed threshold. This condition is maintained as the vehicle passes points and .

The warning level curve severe level curve and critical level curve may indicate safety bounds for given characteristics beyond which driving behavior is unsafe. The actual speed curve may indicate the actual speed of the vehicle. The violation warning event zone severe violation warning event zone and critical violation warning event zone may be used to warn drivers of safety violations and or unsafe driving behavior and or may be recorded for later analysis .

The safety curves may define safety thresholds for a given characteristic. For example the safety curves in may define the safety bounds for vehicle speed. As shown the warning level curve severe level curve and critical level curve may indicate the level above which one or more warning events severe warning events and critical warning events may occur respectively. The driver behavior engine may be configured via the profiles from the profile database to have various different numbers of safety curve levels to have different meanings for different safety curve levels and or different corresponding actions to execute in response. For example some embodiments may be configured to record a violation above the warning level curve with a soft notification to the driver e.g. an audio signal . A more prominent notification may be used for a violation above the severe warning level curve e.g. an audio signal and visual indicator . For violations above the critical warning level curve the driver behavior engine may provide the highest level of notification e.g. loud audible reminder flashing lights etc. .

The actual acceleration curve may be determined using various appropriate vehicle sensors e.g. GPS wheel sensors accelerometers On Board Diagnostics OBD data CAN data etc. . The optimal acceleration curve and safe acceleration curve may be determined based on known points of acceleration deceleration e.g. stop signs traffic lights T junctions and or other features identified from map data and or predicted future possible paths.

The sudden deceleration violation and sudden acceleration violation may indicate regions of unsafe deceleration and acceleration respectively. A sudden deceleration violation occurs when actual deceleration is below the safe acceleration curve . Similarly a sudden acceleration violation occurs when actual acceleration exceeds the safe acceleration curve .

In real time driving systems the exact location of acceleration deceleration may be difficult to ascertain and therefore respective behavior curves may be difficult to generate. Instead static acceleration curves may be used to provide real time warnings and or driving guidance.

The actual acceleration curve may be determined using various appropriate vehicle sensors. The optimal static acceleration curve and safe static acceleration curve may be determined based on vehicle characteristics e.g. vehicle weight size etc. weather conditions which may be determined by temperature sensors a barometric pressure sensor windshield wiper data head light data etc. and or position of the accelerator pedal which may be determined by OBD II for example . The optimal static acceleration curve and safe static acceleration curve may also be determined based on known points of acceleration deceleration and predicted future possible points.

The sudden static acceleration violation zone may indicate a region of unsafe static acceleration. A sudden static acceleration violation occurs when actual static acceleration as represented by curve exceeds the safe static acceleration as represented by curve .

The actual yaw rate curve may be determined using elements such as gyroscopes GNSS receivers GPS GLONASS Galileo Beidou system etc. differential wheel sensors steering wheel angle sensors etc. The yaw rate may be measured in degrees per second. The safe yaw rate curve and optimal yaw rate curve may be determined based on vehicle characteristics e.g. vehicle weight size etc. weather conditions which may be determined by temperature sensors a barometric pressure sensor windshield wiper data head light data etc. map data road shape road curvature lane information road width posted speed limit road banking etc. speed and or position of the accelerator pedal. The safe yaw rate curve and optimal yaw rate curve may also be determined based on known driving points and predicted future possible points.

The unsafe yaw rate zones may indicate an unsafe yaw rate region. An unsafe yaw rate violation occurs when yaw rate exceeds the safe yaw rate. The yaw rate may be used to detect sudden turns or lane changes. At high speeds large yaw rates may lead to vehicles rolling over and or other traffic accidents. For example sudden turns and lane changes might be an indicator of a distracted driver. The unsafe yaw rate zone may be used to avoid these types of accidents and or unsafe lane changes.

The shape and features of the driving path may be determined using map data. Map data regarding the shape and features of the road may be used to calculate the safe yaw rate curve optimal yaw rate curve and unsafe yaw rate zones . Unsafe lane changes may be detected by high yaw rate values that do not match expected yaw rates based on the road geometry.

Stopping behavior may be determined by measuring a vehicle s speed via various appropriate vehicle sensors. For example a 100 stop may be determined if a vehicle stays at a speed of 0 mph for a predefined period of time e.g. 1 2 seconds . Using this approach stops may appear as spikes on a graph. The safe stop range curve may be determined using map information such as stop sign intersection traffic light and or other map attribute data. Because of potential traffic and or road conditions the exact place where a vehicle needs to stop may be undetermined. To account for such variability the stop curves use ranges. For example a vehicle may need to stop a certain distance before a stop sign and or stop light if there are other vehicles ahead of it. Various frontal distance vehicle sensors e.g. radar camera systems etc. may be used to detect the presence of other vehicles which may affect the safe stop range curve .

The safe stop range curve may be determined from data regarding traffic lights with additional vehicle sensors for detecting red lights stop signs approaching crossing a major road railroad crossings left turns at intersections without traffic lights etc. The safe stop range curve may also be determined from speed and acceleration data weather conditions e.g. wet conditions may necessitate earlier stopping road construction data etc. The actual stop curve may indicate where and for how long a vehicle stops and the whether or not a vehicle comes to a complete stop.

A rolling stop violation which corresponds to point representing a stop may be determined if a vehicle does not reach 0 mph and or does not remain at 0 mph for a predetermined period of time. A non stopping violation which corresponds to point may indicate if a vehicle fails to stop at a required road stop. Point corresponds to a required stop where the vehicle performed a proper stop.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the diagrams are conceptual in nature and may be implemented in various different ways without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance various alternative paths and or sets of points may be used. In a similar manner other behavior curves may be created for additional measurable driving characteristics such as frontal distance driver alertness shift gear position etc. In addition various other driving data may be utilized and or included. Furthermore various numbers of thresholds may be defined.

As shown the process may define at sets of instructions for providing a driver behavior engine. The process may then define at sets of instructions for providing a map data access module. Next the process may define at sets of instructions for providing a positioning engine. Process may then define at sets of instructions for providing a path prediction engine. The process may then define at sets of instructions for providing a warning module. Next the process may define at sets of instructions for providing an optional user interface module. Process may then define at sets of instructions for providing an event logging engine. The process may then define at sets of instructions for providing a vehicle sensor module. The process may then write at the sets of instructions defined at operations to a non volatile storage medium.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various sets of instructions defined by process are not exhaustive of the sets of instructions that could be defined and established on a non volatile storage medium for driver behavior engine applications incorporating some embodiments of the invention. In addition process is a conceptual process and the actual implementations may vary. For example different embodiments may define the various sets of instructions in a different order may define several sets of instructions in one operation may decompose the definition of a single set of instructions into multiple operations etc. In addition process may be implemented as several sub processes or combined with other operations within a macro process.

Many of the processes and modules described above may be implemented as software processes that are specified as at least one set of instructions recorded on a non transitory storage medium. When these instructions are executed by one or more computational element s e.g. microprocessors microcontrollers Digital Signal Processors DSP Application Specific ICs ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA etc. the instructions cause the computational element s to perform actions specified in the instructions.

Computer system may be implemented using various appropriate devices. For instance the computer system may be implemented using one or more personal computers PCs servers mobile devices e.g. a Smartphone tablet devices and or any other appropriate devices. The various devices may work alone e.g. the computer system may be implemented as a single PC or in conjunction e.g. some components of the computer system may be provided by a mobile device while other components are provided by a tablet device .

Computer system may include a bus at least one processing element a system memory a read only memory ROM other components e.g. a graphics processing unit input devices output devices permanent storage devices and or network interfaces . The components of computer system may be electronic devices that automatically perform operations based on digital and or analog input signals.

Bus represents all communication pathways among the elements of computer system . Such pathways may include wired wireless optical and or other appropriate communication pathways. For example input devices and or output devices may be coupled to the system using a wireless connection protocol or system. The processor may in order to execute the processes of some embodiments retrieve instructions to execute and data to process from components such as system memory ROM and permanent storage device . Such instructions and data may be passed over bus .

ROM may store static data and instructions that may be used by processor and or other elements of the computer system. Permanent storage device may be a read and write memory device. This device may be a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when computer system is off or unpowered. Permanent storage device may include a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive .

Computer system may use a removable storage device and or a remote storage device as the permanent storage device. System memory may be a volatile read and write memory such as a random access memory RAM . The system memory may store some of the instructions and data that the processor uses at runtime. The sets of instructions and or data used to implement some embodiments may be stored in the system memory the permanent storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units may include instructions for creating 3D online events in accordance with some embodiments.

Other components may perform various other functions. These functions may include for example 3D rendering functions.

Input devices may enable a user to communicate information to the computer system and or manipulate various operations of the system. The input devices may include keyboards cursor control devices audio input devices and or video input devices. Output devices may include printers displays and or audio devices. Some or all of the input and or output devices may be wirelessly or optically connected to the computer system.

Finally as shown in computer system may be coupled to a network through a network interface . For example computer system may be coupled to a web server on the Internet such that a web browser executing on computer system may interact with the web server as a user interacts with an interface that operates in the web browser. In some embodiments the network interface may include an API that may allow third party applications running on external devices to access the system . Such an API may allow third party applications to access data instructions functionality etc. that may be provided by the system . For instance such an API may allow third party applications to retrieve system data for external analysis.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the term non transitory storage medium is entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by electronic devices. These terms exclude any wireless or other ephemeral signals.

It should be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art that any or all of the components of computer system may be used in conjunction with the invention. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many other system configurations may be used in conjunction with the invention or components of the invention.

Moreover while the examples shown may illustrate many individual modules as separate elements one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that these modules may be combined into a single functional block or element. One of ordinary skill in the art would also recognize that a single module may be divided into multiple modules.

While the invention has been described with reference to numerous specific details one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example several embodiments were described above by reference to particular features and or components. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that other embodiments might be implemented with other types of features and components. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but rather is to be defined by the appended claims.

