---

title: Method, system, and computer-readable medium for presenting user interface for comparison of marketplace listings
abstract: After marketplace listings are returned via a search, an indication of two or more of the marketplace results to pin and compare is received. A travel cost for any pinned local marketplace result to compare is calculated by determining a travel distance between the electronic device and the location in the pinned local marketplace result to compare and estimating a cost associated with traveling the travel distance. A true purchase price is calculated for each pinned local marketplace result to compare by adding the price for the product, the sales tax, and the travel cost. A true purchase price for each pinned online marketplace result to compare by adding the price for the product, the sales tax, and the shipping cost, these true purchase prices are then displayed side-by-side in the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448718&OS=09448718&RS=09448718
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09448718
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing techniques. More specifically the present disclosure describes a technique for presenting two or more search results for product listings in a manner that facilitates a simple and meaningful comparison of the product listings.

The Internet and the World Wide Web have given rise to a wide variety of on line retailers that operate virtual stores from which consumers can purchase products i.e. merchandise or goods as well as services. Although the popularity of these on line retail sites is clearly evidenced by their increasing sales for a variety of reasons some consumers still would rather purchase products and services in a more conventional manner i.e. via a brick and mortar store. Even when purchasing products and services from a brick and mortar store various web based applications and tools may be used to perform preliminary research about products and services.

The present disclosure describes data processing techniques presenting two or more marketplace listings selected from a set of search results such that comparison of the listings is simple and intuitive. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present embodiments may be practiced without all of the specific details.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a network based publication system processes a search query and returns a set of search results e.g. in the form of a search results page or similar user interface where each result is a marketplace listing for an item good product or service being offered for sale. Upon detecting selection of two or more listings and invocation of a comparison request the two or more selected listings are presented in a comparison user interface UI such that the various attributes of each item product service are presented arranged vertically and the individual search results are positioned next to one another horizontally. With some embodiments the presentation of the comparison UI is on a mobile device with a touch sensitive display having limited size. As such the UI is presented in such a way that the user can navigate between the two listings by performing a simple gesture to flick or drag the listings to the left or right revealing the other listing. For instance if a first listing is being presented the user may simply drag or push with a gesture that listing to the left or right to reveal the second listing. Because the listings are presented with the attributes arranged horizontally comparison on a feature by feature or attribute by attribute basis is easy.

With some embodiments various costs for owning a product that are not readily apparent may be displayed. For example with some embodiments the cost of returning the product the cost of maintaining the product and or the cost of disposing of the product may be displayed. Similarly these costs may be aggregated for each individual listing and then presented as a total cost of ownership for the product.

With some embodiments a user can select to view all attributes or features of two or more products that are the same. Accordingly only those attributes that are the same will be presented. Similarly the user may select to view only those attributes that are different between the two listings.

Other benefits of the embodiments of the present invention will be readily apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

In an example the merchant can operate computer systems such as an inventory system or a POS system . The network based publication system can interact with any of the systems used by merchant for operation of the merchant s retail or service business. In an example the network based publication system can work with both POS system and inventory system to obtain access to inventory available at individual retail locations run by the merchant. This inventory information can be used in both generating product or service listings and selecting and ordering search results served by the network based publication system .

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules in certain examples these can also include search engine modules commerce modules advertising modules and marketplace modules to name a few payment modules and dynamic offer modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server can access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication and search functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are advertised or made available via the various publication modules within retail locations or within external online retail venues. The payment modules may also be configured to present or facilitate a redemption of offers generated by the dynamic offer modules to a user during checkout or prior to checkout while the user is still actively shopping . The offer modules may provide dynamic context sensitive offers e.g. coupons or immediate discount deals on targeted products or services to users of the networked system . The offer modules can be configured to use all of the various communication mechanisms provided by the networked system to present offer options to users. The offer options can be personalized based on current location time of day user profile data past purchase history or recent physical or online behaviors recorded by the network based system among other things e.g. context information . While the publication modules payment modules and offer modules are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system . Additionally in some examples the offer modules may be part of the payment service or may form an offer generation service separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the embodiments of the present invention are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication modules payment modules and offer modules could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication modules payment modules and offer modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication modules payment modules and offer modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a smartphone application that enables users to communicate search queries to the system while leveraging user profile data and current location information provided by the smartphone or accessed over the network .

Various example user interfaces will now be described illustrating various example embodiments. Some of these example embodiments are depicted as user interfaces running on a desktop or laptop computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer. Other example embodiments are depicted as user interfaces running on mobile devices such as smartphones or tablet computers. The various features depicted however can be utilized on any type of computing device and the presence of a feature in a mobile device embodiment for example will not limit that feature to only being used on mobile devices. The features can in fact be mixed and matched on any device.

A slider may be provided that allows the user to configure the radius which is defined as local. Notably this slider is presented in terms of time rather than distance. While users are typically presented information on the distance of items to their location many users will be interested in more specific factors that are influenced by distance but not necessarily by distance itself. For example a user may not care that an item is 60 miles away but rather may be more interested in how long it will take to drive or walk or take public transit to travel to purchase the item. This is because many users are concerned with the amount of time it takes to purchase items locally versus online. Alternatively a user who has plenty of time may not care as much about time or distance as such but may be more interested in the fuel cost of traveling to purchase the item. As such the slider may present results that fall within the scope of a factor other than distance but that distance affects such as travel time or fuel costs. Here time is depicted. If the user slides the slider to the right the number of minutes will increase and potentially more marketplace results will be displayed for local listings . Alternatively if the user slides the slider to the left the number of minutes will decrease and potentially fewer marketplace results will be displayed for the local listings .

Pinning two or more results allows for a comparison view to provide a better understanding of true pricing and tradeoffs. The user having pinned two or more such results can hit a compare button to bring up a purchase comparison. illustrates an example user interface showing a purchase comparison window consistent with some embodiments of the invention. In the example of the purchase comparison window depicts a side by side comparison of purchase features of the product from the multiple result listings. Here in addition to the underlying costs of the item the sales tax which can differ greatly between listings especially when some retailers are located out of state the cost of gas for a local merchant versus the cost of shipping for an online retailer the return policies and the cost of return transportation or shipping . Some of these are features that may be important to a user but are not currently displayed in prior art shopping interfaces.

Selecting one of the results may cause a product card to be displayed. illustrates an example user interface showing a product description page consistent with some embodiments of the invention. This figure depicts a product description page where a user has selected one of the marketplace results .

Additional gestures can also provide additional information about each product. The attributes of a product can be at least partially represented in a hierarchical fashion allowing drill down and roll up commands to see or hide sub attributes. illustrates an example user interface showing a purchase comparison page consistent with some embodiments of the invention. In this figure a user may select one of the attributes by selecting it with a finger or fingers and then pinch to zoom by spreading his or her fingers apart to reveal sub attributes. illustrates an example user interface showing a purchase comparison page consistent with some embodiments of the invention. Here after the user has elected to drill down using the aforementioned pinch to zoom sub attributes of the attribute are presented here being base price sales tax fuel cost return cost and return transportation cost . To return to hiding these sub attributes the user may roll up by performing the reverse gesture bringing fingers closer together .

Also available to the user are buttons that highlight what is the same and what are different between the product pages. illustrates an example user interface showing a product comparison page consistent with some example embodiments. Here the user has selected the What s the Same button which causes the attributes on the page that are in common across all the pinned product comparison pages to be highlighted. Here the product title is highlighted as are the rating and release date and overview . The price however being different between the pinned product comparison pages is not highlighted.

At operation the web browser may send a query for a product to the server . This query may include search parameters. Either separately or along with this query the location of the electronic device on which the web browser is running may be transmitted to the server . This location may be obtained for example from a global positioning system GPS module in the electronic device as is common for mobile devices or may simply be a location identified by a user profile or IP address lookup as is common for non mobile devices .

At operation the server uses the query to find marketplace results by accessing the marketplace database . At operation the marketplace database sends marketplace results to the server . At operation the server sorts the marketplace results and forms a product description page. At operation the server returns the product description page to the web browser .

At some point later at operation the web browser may request a map view. At operation the server may query a map database for a local map near the location of the web browser . At operation the map database may return the local map to the server . At operation the server may query a traffic road condition database for traffic and road conditions. The traffic and road conditions may be returned at operation . It should be noted that while the traffic and road conditions are depicted as being stored in a single traffic road condition database these items may actually be split into different databases. Additionally other databases such as weather databases may also be queried for factors that may impact the travel time calculation.

At operation travel times to marketplace results may be calculated. This calculation may be based on route distances calculated from the local map e.g. finding the shortest route through streets and highways and based on the traffic and road conditions. In some example embodiments additional information may be used to determine the travel time. For example if the user does not own a vehicle the travel time using public transportation including time taken to wait for busses trains etc. may be included.

At operation the marketplace results may be placed on a map view of a product description page filtered by travel time. The user may filter out certain of the results via for example a slider that limits the display to only results within a selected travel time.

At operation the web browser may send a query for a product to the server . This query may include search parameters. Either separately or along with this query the location of the electronic device on which the web browser is running may be transmitted to the server . This location may be obtained for example from a global positioning system GPS module in the electronic device as is common for mobile devices or may simply be a location identified by a user profile or IP address lookup as is common for non mobile devices .

At operation the server uses the query to find marketplace results by accessing the marketplace database . At operation the marketplace database sends marketplace results to the server . At operation the server sorts the marketplace results and forms a product description page. At operation the server returns the product description page to the web browser .

At some point later at operation the web browser may pin a first marketplace result. At operation the web browser may pin a second marketplace result. While only two pinned marketplace results are depicted it should be noted that any number of marketplace results can be pinned. At operation the web browser may request a comparison of pinned marketplace results. This may be caused by for example a user selecting a compare button.

At operation the server may request matching attribute information on the pinned marketplace results. By matching attribute information what is meant is that the same type of information is sought for each of the pinned marketplace results. For example price size sales tax return policy etc. may all be requested for each of the pinned marketplace results. At operation the matching attribute information is returned to the server . In some embodiments this information is already available from the original marketplace results presented to the server and thus this step may not be needed if all the information is already known to the server .

At operation the server may query a map database for a local map near the location of the web browser . At operation the map database may return the local map to the server . At operation the server may query a traffic road condition database for traffic and road conditions. The traffic and road conditions may be returned at operation . It should be noted that while the traffic and road conditions are depicted as being stored in a single traffic road condition database these items may actually be split into different databases. Additionally other databases such as weather databases may also be queried for factors that may impact the travel time calculation.

At operation travel times to marketplace results may be calculated. This calculation may be based on route distances calculated from the local map e.g. finding the shortest route through streets and highways and based on the traffic and road conditions. In some example embodiments additional information may be used to determine the travel time. For example if the user does not own a vehicle the travel time using public transportation including time taken to wait for busses trains etc. may be included.

At operation a true purchase cost for each of the pinned marketplace results to be compared may be calculated. This may be calculated using any of the available attributes for the pinned marketplace results. As an example the price of a product sales tax and any travel cost or shipping cost may be added. In some instances the cost of return e.g. restocking fees and return travel cost or shipping cost may be added as well. The travel cost may be estimated using the calculated travel times. Current fuel costs may be obtained and used to aid in providing this estimate. In addition personal information about the user such as vehicle information can be used a well. A user driving a high miles per gallon MPG vehicle for example will have a lower travel cost to a destination than the same driving having a low MPG vehicle.

At operation the marketplace results may be organized side by side on a single web page with the same attributes on each row. At operation the side by side comparison page may be returned to the web browser .

At operation a user may enter search information into a user interface which may pass this search information to the mobile app . At operation the mobile app may send a query for a product to the server . This query may include search parameters. Either separately or along with this query the location of the electronic device on which the mobile app is running may be transmitted to the server . This location may be obtained for example from a global positioning system GPS module in the electronic device as is common for mobile devices or may simply be a location identified by a user profile or IP address lookup as is common for non mobile devices .

At operation the server uses the query to find marketplace results by accessing the marketplace database . At operation the marketplace database sends marketplace results to the server . At operation the server sorts the marketplace results and forms a product description page. At operation the server returns the product description page to the mobile app which then causes the display of the product description page on the user interface at operation .

At some point later at operation the user may pin a first marketplace result. This causes the mobile app to indicate the pinned result to the server at operation . At operation the user may pin a second marketplace result. This causes the mobile app to indicate the pinned result to the server at operation . While only two pinned marketplace results are depicted it should be noted that any number of marketplace results can be pinned. It should also be noted that the pinned results could alternatively be transmitted to server all at once as opposed to one at a time as the user pins them although sending them one at a time allows for easier recovery should the electronic device suffer a crash or other power outage that causes the information about pinned items to be lost.

At operation the user may request a comparison of pinned marketplace results. This may be caused by for example a user selecting a compare button. At operation this information may be passed to the server .

At operation the server may request matching attribute information on the pinned marketplace results. By matching attribute information what is meant is that the same type of information is sought for each of the pinned marketplace results. For example price size sales tax return policy etc. may all be requested for each of the pinned marketplace results. At operation the matching attribute information is returned to server . In some embodiments this information is already available from the original marketplace results presented to the server and thus this step may not be needed if all the information is already known to the server .

At operation the server may query a map database for a local map near the location of the electronic device. At operation the map database may return the local map to the server . At operation the server may query a traffic road condition database for traffic and road conditions. The traffic and road conditions may be returned to the server at operation . It should be noted that while the traffic and road conditions are depicted as being stored in a single traffic road condition database these items may actually be split into different databases. Additionally other databases such as weather databases may also be queried for factors that may impact the travel time calculation.

At operation travel times to marketplace results may be calculated. This calculation may be based on route distances calculated from the local map e.g. finding the shortest route through streets and highways and based on the traffic and road conditions. In some example embodiments additional information may be used to determine the travel time. For example if the user does not own a vehicle the travel time using public transportation including time taken to wait for busses trains etc. may be included.

At operation a true purchase cost for each of the pinned marketplace results to be compared may be calculated. This may be calculated using any of the available attributes for the pinned marketplace results. As an example the price of a product sales tax and any travel cost or shipping cost may be added. In some instances the cost of return e.g. restocking fees and return travel cost or shipping cost may be added as well. The travel cost may be estimated using the calculated travel times. Current fuel costs may be obtained and used to aid in providing this estimate. In addition personal information about the user such as vehicle information can be used a well. A user driving a high miles per gallon MPG vehicle for example will have a lower travel cost to a destination than the same driving having a low MPG vehicle.

At operation the marketplace results may be organized side by side on a plurality of product comparison pages with the same attributes on each row. At operation the plurality of product comparison pages can be returned to the mobile app . At operation one of the product comparison pages can be displayed on the user interface . At operation the user may swipe left or right. At operation the mobile app may return the next or previous product comparison page based upon whether the user swipes left or right respectively.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation cursor control device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a drive unit e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors not pictured such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

