---

title: Mobile biometrics information collection and identification
abstract: A biometric mobile device is capable of interacting with existing cellular, wireless, and wired telecommunication and other communication networks to support intelligence gathering, human body identification, special operations and other applications. A method of collecting biometric data at an accident or crime scene may comprise, for example, utilizing a camera to photograph the accident scene, collecting key entered data that may not be otherwise obtainable, using a fingerprint scanner to collect, digitize and store fingerprint data, using a lab-on-a-chip DNA profile device for collecting and analyzing a DNA specimen and generating identification and DNA profile data for bar code entry and other means for collecting any known form of biometric data including, but not limited to, vascular facial structure, dental structure, cornea, iris or other data which may be unique or limiting for identification purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235733&OS=09235733&RS=09235733
owner: 
number: 09235733
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120223
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 209 278 filed Aug. 12 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 412 463 issued Apr. 2 2013 which is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 467 834 filed Aug. 28 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 836 941 filed Aug. 11 2006 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 684 539 filed Jan. 8 2010 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 193 927 filed Jan. 9 2009 and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 448 467 filed Mar. 2 2011 of the same inventors. all patent applications being incorporated by reference as to their entire contents.

The field of the preferred embodiments is directed to a biometrics mobile telephone device and forensics software application for such a mobile device and in particular to the collection of biometrics information for a human or animal body or remains including fingerprint DNA iris scan voice for recognition or identification vascular representation dental structures radio frequency identification tag marks scars and tattoos and personal profile data via the mobile device and local or remote server or cloud software for making a probable identification of the collected biometric information to stored biometric information so that for example police fire and rescue personnel may make an identification at an accident terrorist event battlefield or crime scene.

Fingerprint and DNA profile storage for millions of humans in the United States are known from state local and federal government as well as private sources for example the fingerprint and DNA profile data stored by the U.S. Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation. Biometric data are collected by Interpol and other international and domestic agencies as well for those who may be suspected convicted and or imprisoned for terrorist or criminal activity. Fingerprints are often voluntarily collected by state agencies at a child s birth for purposes of possible future use in the event of a kidnapping victim identification or other reason for which parents voluntarily permit the collection and storage of their children s fingerprints and other biometric data in databases. Automatic fingerprint identification services AFIS are known whereby a set of prints may be automatically collected digitally stored and compared for identification purposes at local police departments.

Analysis of an iris as a unique indicator of an individual is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 291 560 entitled Biometric Personal Identification System Based on Iris Analysis. U.S. Pat. No. 7 594 612 assigned to American Express provides for retinal scan recognition in the design of a commercial transaction terminal. U.S. Pat. No. 7 853 054 provides a system for generating templates of a fingerprint input image similar to what may be used in AFIS. The system includes identification and verification steps which compare the template generated with templates stored in a fingerprint database. U.S. Pat. No. 7 881 503 provides for validating the identity of a person using corneal imaging techniques. U.S. Pat. No. 7 881 507 assigned to Research in Motion Limited suggests that the known intelligent telephone known as the Blackberry telephone may be soon equipped with a fingerprint scanner. A small number of mobile phones feature a dedicated fingerprint scanner namely the Fujitsu F 01A mobile phone and the recently introduced Motorola Atrix mobile telephones. AuthenTec a large supplier of fingerprint scanners for laptop computers offers a line of fingerprint sensors targeted at Android phones. However these are typically used for owner user identification purposes to prevent unauthorized access to the device and are similar to the sliding fingerprint scanners on laptops which makes standard fingerprinting tedious. Fingerprint scanning may be easily added to intelligent telephones or iPad s by an auxiliary port or internally for example via camera or fingerprint scanner input. Already it is known that many mobile devices automatically collect GPS data for current location and such information can be utilized to identify an owner or user of a mobile device or the information can be correlated with other information in a local or remote computer database to analyze the activities of one or more individuals. Also most mobile telephones provide cameras for capturing images including close up fingerprint images and bar codes. Auxiliary focusing devices can be utilized in order to focus sufficiently closely. For example the simplest device is a convex or positive diopter lens. Indeed it is known that one and two dimensional bar codes can be collected by such a camera and these bar codes may represent for example personal identification data and DNA profile data respectively. The same cameras may capture crime and accident scenes cornea and iris data dental structure and forensic data of all sorts including fingerprint identification and iris photographic data. Fingerprints on standard fingerprint identification cards as commonly utilized by law enforcement agencies government bodies and military organizations may also be utilized and the fingerprints on the cards may be digitized using such a camera. The camera may be digital or analog and if the latter be provided with a high resolution analog to digital converter.

It would be desirable for police fire and rescue organizations to be provided with a biometric mobile device capable of collecting biometric data for a given human or animal body an individual and either locally or with remote assistance such as by querying a remote computer database identify or validate the identity of the individual. This biometric mobile device could also be used to test for narcotic or alcohol use or to identify suspect chemical or biological substances in the field by obtaining measurements from the substances and querying a local or remote computer database. All patents and published patent applications referred to above and herein should be deemed to be incorporated by reference as to their entire contents.

A biometric mobile device is capable of interacting with existing cellular wireless such as WiFi and wired telecommunication and other communication networks to support intelligence gathering human body identification special operations and other applications. A satellite telephone may be utilized in a similar manner. Such a device may be associated with a server or cloud service and may comprise a software application and modifications as necessary to existing mobile phone device hardware to provide for a collection of a plurality of different biometric and related data. Herein is described a hardware and software solution that will quickly fulfill the need for biometric data collection comparison and for example human identification using many off the shelf components while keeping costs of hardware modifications and associated software requirements to a minimum. Such a biometric mobile device equipped with a biometric data collection and identification software application may utilize an external server and or cloud application and database services as available to identify an individual with a given probability.

A method of collecting biometric data at an accident or crime scene may comprise for example utilizing a camera to photograph the accident scene collecting key entered data that may not be otherwise obtainable using a fingerprint scanner to collect digitize and store fingerprint data using a lab on a chip or other portable DINA profile device for collecting and analyzing a DNA specimen and generating identification and DNA profile data for bar code entry and other means for collecting any known form of biometric data including but not limited to vascular facial structure cornea iris or other data which may be unique or limiting for identification purposes. As an alternative to the use of a barcode a wireless or wired connection such as BlueTooth Ethernet or a USB port connector may be utilized to transfer information between the DNA profile device or other device for acquisition or collection of forensic information and the biometric mobile device. A comparison may be made of all collected data for an unknown and compared with remote or local databases for known biometric data and a match be made ranking the likelihood that the match is indeed the individual hypothetically established in relation to a family pedigree as described in published U.S. Patent Application 2008 0040046 of Feb. 4 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 .

The base device selected for discussion herein will be the Motorola Atrix telephone a recently released smart telephone that is a GSM compatible with an integrated fingerprint scanner and runs on the Android platform. While this mobile device is selected as one alternative as suggested above a RIM Blackberry telephone may be soon available with a fingerprint scanner. Already more and more smart phones are being equipped with cameras GPS coordinate collection data and with bar code scanners and displays for viewing bar codes of one and two dimensions. Due to the ubiquitous nature of the Android operating system MoBIC can be utilized on all mobile devices capable of running Android. Data collection requiring dedicated hardware not including external data collection devices would naturally be limited to devices with that hardware e.g. integrated fingerprint scanners . Bioinformatics data collection may require interfacing with external data collection devices. Several USB fingerprint scanners exist such as the UPEK Eikon TCRD4 USB Fingerprint reader. External USB iris scanners exist such as the Hoyos Eyelock USB Iris Scanner for computer security purposes. These external could be incorporated by MoBIC to provide in the field acquisition of Iris bioinformatics data.

Once actuated one embodiment of a biometric mobile device may comprises a touch display screen for showing a plurality of potential applications such as collection of DNA profile data Mobile Disaster Victim Identification or Mobile DVI or Mobile Biometric Information Collection or MoBIC. Once selected for example MoBIC provides an introductory screen whereby a Browse Search new data Import Export Sync synchronize Preferences settings or Exit and other selections may be made to enter MoBIC s utilities. If Browse is selected then an ordering or database selection may be made. If new data then a predetermined number per display of profiles may be selected for entry along with applicable metadata such as date time and location. If Search one may search by a search term such as a key word or by name age height weight race skin color or other biometric. The search results may be posted to the device touchscreen or other display and scrolled using touch or a joystick for example via the Blackberry phone central tab . An exemplary profile may comprise but not be limited to comprise a name age weight height gender facial photographs fingerprints iris or cornea left or right scars marks and tattoos SMT data DNA profile data dental data and the like. Methods of collection including fingerprint capture using dust or SuperGlue glue known chemical reagents and the like or iris or cornea data capture using a camera and such a close up distance camera will not be discussed in detail and are assumed known in the art. Generally once collected from an accident or crime scene an individual may be associated with a family pedigree another family member by relation or otherwise identified by use of local or remote service software for matching biometric data with known data to establish a match. Relationships to one or more other family members or among a set of family members may be described as a family pedigree using methods well known in the art. A probability or other measure such as a measure of similarity may be calculated based on all collected data that there indeed is a match of biometric data for an individual to that of a known person or a member of a family pedigree.

The collected biometric data may be physically returned or transmitted to a central location where software may be run for example to resolve a DNA mixture per U.S. Pat. No. 7 162 372 or 7 672 789 In particular the University of Tennessee offers mixture deconvolution to police and fire and rescue organizations. Peak fitting algorithms analyze two dimensional graphic data representing DNA profile peaks and perform allele peak fitting and attribute extraction for example per US Published Application No. 2009 022845 of Sep. 10 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 645 073 issued Feb. 4 2013 . An automated expert system STRESP also exists for performing automated expert analysis for example per U.S. Pat. No. 7 640 223 7 624 087 7 665 719 or 7 840 519. U.S. Published Patent Application Nos. 2008 0040046 of Feb. 4 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 and 2010 0138374 of Jun. 3 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 392 issued Oct. 30 2012 describe associating an unknown biological specimen with a family pedigree. This published application also describes an automated decision support tool for selecting family members of a family pedigree when for example one or more parents are unavailable for typing.

These and other features of embodiments of a biometric mobile device and method of identification will be discussed in connection with the drawings a brief description of which follows.

Now a biometric mobile device and method of collecting matching and ranking identification data will be described with reference to . Referring first to there are shown the respective front and rear sides of a typical intelligent mobile telephone or other device . Such an intelligent telephone will be used by way of example and may be a Motorola Atrix telephone using Android 2.2 Apple s iPhone using iOS or other platforms operating systems. An advantage of such a telephone is that it may run applications as a special purpose data processor. Moreover it may comprise special data input devices including a camera for for example collecting fingerprint and iris cornea data and for collecting for example bar code identification and DNA specimen data. Such special data input devices may be integrated into the device or connected to the device using a cable or a wireless technology such as Bluetooth. It may comprise an integrated GPS system for collecting location data an internal day and time clock for capturing event time data. It may comprise a touch screen for collecting four or five fingers of fingerprint data a physical or virtual keyboard for key entry of weight and height data and the like. All of these are examples of biometric data. Biometric data as defined in this application comprises any data or information that may assist in the identification of an individual a human body an animal or remains living or deceased including data such as name weight height fingerprint iris cornea DNA dental structure vascular structure and the like which may be unique or may help to limit the identity. For example a clear fingerprint and DNA profile data are among data that are usable forensic data that may uniquely identify an individual. On the other hand there may be many individuals that have a height of 200 cm or 6 feet but such data may tend to limit an individual among the population of possible individuals. Moreover data may be dynamic as an individual may grow in weight or lose weight over time. In a similar manner it may be preferable to utilize date of birth rather than age because age increases over time.

Location data are geographic in nature and so may only indicate the presence of an individual at a given location for a period of time. Location data may be utilized in conjunction with a remotely accessible geographic information system GIS such as ArcGIS or other products by ESRI or an alternative system such as open source software utilizing Open Street Maps data to display maps or other data as a function of geographic coordinate corresponding to the location of data collection points found remains a victim or piece of evidence or a site of a disaster. Such maps may be displayed using the device s display or touchscreen shared with other users or devices using a wireless or wired communication interface not shown or stored to or retrieved from a computer server or database. Maps may be created by such GIS showing the locations of these objects together with other geographic or physical features such as topography bodies of water roads utilities such as power and water lines streets and buildings. These maps can for example provide aid to disaster or relief workers by providing a summary of structures and content that were present before the disaster using a local or remote computer database or multiple databases of either type. It is useful to include a date and time when for example weight and geographic location data are stored for a given individual as biometric data for example as metadata. If the date or date and time are also available then geographic data can be utilized in for example a touch screen display or an external display connected to the mobile device or accessible through a network by the mobile device to indicate changes in a site over a period of time.

Similar reference characters will be used herein to denote similar elements and features. The first numeral will represent where the element first appears for example intelligent mobile telephone first appears in . Referring first to which may be a front view there is shown an intelligent mobile device including but not limited to including a display of for example three inches by four inches which may be touch sensitive. This display may be used as a surface for capturing fingerprint data for example four rolled or pressed fingers and a thumb at a time or individually from the left or right hand. The surface of display may display a keyboard or may be used to scroll up and down a given list of selectable menu options and by tapping select them. Further intelligent telephone face features may include a microphone for receiving a speaking voice or other sounds and a speaker for announcing speaking voices or sounds of a connected party. Such a microphone may be utilized to record observations made by an investigator at the location of a crime disaster or remains and the mobile device can convert these observations to a digital file in for example MP3 format or convert the speech to text and cause this file to be stored on a remote server or within the mobile device and associated with data obtained from collected or observed object at the scene. The microphone may also be used to capture sounds such as a voice that can be processed using either a computer processor located within the mobile device or a remote computer processor such as a web or cloud service or both to obtain attributes of the sound that can be used to query a local or remote computer database to identify for example the person who spoke. Settings provides a means of changing settings of the telephone or software applications stored on the device such as volume control. Home is a key used to access home screen features while Back takes one back to an immediately previous display screen. Search initiates a search. Other intelligent telephones may comprise joystick controls and click features for navigation to and selection of menu items.

There may be three or more alternative means for incorporating fingerprint scanning and verification into a mobile telecommunications device . Recently a Motorola Atrix 4G intelligent telephone has been announced with fingerprint identification and a virtual keyboard as well as standard camera and GPS features which may be preferable to use of the Motorola Atrix telephone. With respect to the Motorola Atrix telephone by way of example and referring to a first alternative is to adapt the Atrix having a universal serial bus to incorporate a shell attached to the base on the reverse proximate USB port for housing an AuthenTec or equivalent fingerprint scanner for connection directly to the micro USB 2.0 port via an intermediate adapter or a native USB solution via for example a 90 degree or other angled connector so that the build out shell is not overly obtrusive . The shell may be located for example between the speaker and the port and comprise a substantially flat housing so as not to interfere with speaker . The shell may further house a small USB hub for supporting multiple devices and for external storage. Fingerprint digitization and verification is an inherent feature of AuthenTec s offerings. A second alternative is to provide another USB fingerprint scanner known in the art. The alternative USB fingerprint scanner may consume additional power than the AuthenTec device and require additional system programming. However a fingerprint software driver library for Linux is available known as fprint and this may be ported to Android or equivalent operating system. A third alternative is to adapt existing camera for capturing fingerprints. A multiple exposure method may be used to capture a complete image and known verification software may be used to provide feedback to a user that a fingerprint has been sufficiently captured.

The shell discussed above may also incorporate a known so called pocket reader for reading animal radio frequency identification RFID tags. These are covered by international standards operate receive at 134.2 kHz or other assigned frequencies or frequency ranges and read a tag such as a fifteen digit international tag. An embedded tag may broadcast and the pocket reader receive and report for example an animal s vital signs such as body temperature heart rate respiration blood pH blood sugar blood pressure neuron muscular or neuromuscular signals or other measurements or values computed from such measurements. These are known circuitry which may be incorporated with a separate antenna into the shell and connect to the USB port . The RFID tags can also be used to tag shipping containers or other packages or objects to track shipments for applications such as customs intelligence and counter terrorism and law enforcement and to track packages either domestically or internationally as they are in transit. Such tracking can include measurement of environmental parameters such as temperature humidity air pressure or altitude solar insolation and geographic coordinates such as latitude longitude or any equivalent measurement using another coordinate system. A mobile handheld device such as described herein has high utility in such applications because of its multifunctional capabilities which can be easily modified by the substitution update or addition of software components typically called an application herein upgrades to the operating system or system utilities and its compact size. The mobile handheld device can function as a data gathering system to obtain current or recorded data from for example shipping containers.

Now with reference to the interaction of an intelligent biometric mobile device with an external server may be described for individual identification. Biometric mobile telephone device is shown communicating with a remote server via a forward link and a reverse link which may be wireless wired satellite cable fiber optic or other link or composition of such links known in the art. Remote server may be secure and links and may be secured for example encrypted links and the server password and key protected as is well known in the art. Links may be internet extranet intranet or other communications links.

In a forward direction above link are shown an introductory main menu screen also shown in for a mobile biometric data collection method whereby one may browse search input new import. export. synchronize sync establish preferences settings and exit. For example a user of device may create edit and delete profiles and associated meta data for human bodies or animals. Synchronization may be utilized for example to upload or synchronize data stored within the mobile device with a remote database or an external device such as a hard disk drive connected to the mobile device using the USB or a network connection either wired or wireless. For example synchronization could utilize a remotely accessible network storage device such as one available through the Pogoplug data service or a cloud service provider. Screen also shown in demonstrates the automatic collection of GPS location data and while not shown mobile device typically comprises an automatic time date clock for time stamping photographic location and other biometric data for example as metadata. Screen details shown in represents a typical screen for characterizing an individual profile having certain characteristics in a manner known for example in disaster and crime victim identification processes for example according to Interpol. Screen details shown in represents the collection of a two dimensional bar code which may for example represent a DNA profile while a one dimensional bar code may represent identification data for an individual. This screen may be shown on display and may be captured via camera . Likewise camera may capture an image of an iris a cornea a vascular structure or heat signature of a face or other body part a dental structure. a fingerprint or collection of fingerprints a face scars marks or tattoos and the like. This captured image can then be used for identification by querying a local or remote computer database. Further screens are shown below return link as comprising Profile screen and from Profile screen particular details for left iris screen also shown in . Remote server may locate a match between all or any portion of biometric data provided and data for a known individual stored at a database of remote server and may comprise one or more computers. The match may be made to for example watch lists access lists personnel records criminal records and the like. Using matching algorithms a match to a family pedigree or specific member of a family may be determined for example using DNA profile data for family members as described in published U.S. Patent Application No. 2008 0040046 of Feb. 14 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 . The device may utilize the methods disclosed in published U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0138374 of Jun. 3 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 392 issued Oct. 30 2012 to suggest that data be obtained from specific family members or to assist the user in choosing what data to collect. A match may be obtained for a partial print. A probability may be calculated by weighting various parametric biometric data to determine the identity of an individual and that identity returned to mobile device and utilizing either population statistics obtained from a sample population or known probabilities. The process will now be further explained with reference to exemplary screens.

Comparison may be done manually or according to a computer implemented algorithm on a computer system according to . Methods of the first embodiment and subsequent embodiments may be utilized in connection with computer readable media which may be provided for temporary or permanent storage in a personal computer intelligent telecommunications device or other computer or computer system comprising one or more parallel processors known in the art. is a block schematic diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which at least one embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and at least one processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor such as a biometric data collection and identification software application or a disaster victim identification software application. Computer system may further include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk solid state memory or the like may be provided and coupled to bus for storing biometric information and computer instructions. A storage device may be removable using a coupling mechanism such as a universal serial bus USB see USB port or other hardware specific to the type of storage hardware such as a CompactFlash SD or microSD card reader or port. A removable storage device may be utilized to transfer information to or from computer system . Any of memories may retain program instructions according to any embodiment of automated data support ADS for selecting family data hypothetically related to an individual for collecting missing person profile data or profile data for a family pedigree or for associating unknown specimens with family pedigrees.

Computer system may optionally be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD plasma display television small intelligent mobile telephone display or the like for displaying information to a computer user. Display may provide a virtual keyboard for data input a real keyboard a joystick and selector a fingerprint reader or a one or two dimensional bar code reader via camera or a touch screen. Alternatively information may be delivered to or collected from a computer user or another computer system or computer program using a communication interface or removable storage device. Communication interface can function as an interface between computer system and additional devices for collection of information such as a fingerprint reader a camera an iris scanner and light source a DNA analyzer or mass spectrometer or other devices as are well known in the field. Communication interface can enable communication using wires wirelessly e.g. Bluetooth or WiFi optical fiber infrared light emitting diode and photo reception carrier wave or other technologies well known in the art. There may be more than one communication interface . An input device which may include a physical or virtual keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . An optional type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse trackball stylus or cursor direction keys for example as may be found on some personal data assistants PDA s for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. This input device may be combined with a display device such as a LCD with a touch screen commonly found on mobile telephones or other telecommunications or presentation devices such as the Apple iPad or a computer tablet using the Android operating system. Alternatively information and command selections may be communicated to processor using a communication interface . Optionally separate communication interfaces may be used to deliver information to a computer user or another computer system such as a remote server or computer program and to communicate information and command selections to processor .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for automated decision support for collection of biometric data specimen data and fingerprint data at a disaster site crime or accident site or site of a selected family member or a laboratory and for identifying an unknown biological specimen as likely related to a family comprising at least a first and second family member. According to one embodiment of the invention identifying an unknown biological specimen or individual as likely related to a family comprising at least a first and second family member is provided by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory for example in accordance with ADS and known missing persons kinship analysis MP KN developed at the University of Tennessee and disclosed in published U.S. Patent Application Nos. 2008 0040046 of Feb. 14 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 and 2010 0138374 of Jun. 3 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 392 issued Oct. 30 2012 . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments. hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement embodiments of the invention. For example a field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC may be used. Such a device can for example implement associative memory to aid in indexing search and retrieval of biometric information stored in a database. A second example is use of a FPGA or ASIC to speed up calculation of a likelihood function used to rank profiles of biometric information. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. Indexing methods such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 741 983 7 272 612 7 454 411 7 769 803 7 882 106 8 060 522 and 8 099 733 may be utilized to enable fast retrieval of information similar to information desired in a query of the database.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution or storing information in a form that can be accessed by the processor. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks solid state memories and the like such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium solid state memory punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read. Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution.

Computer system may include one or more communication interfaces coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN or digital subscriber line DSL card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line or wireless link. Preferably communications transmitted over such a link are encrypted or otherwise protected according to known encryption schemes and or watermarking algorithms to uniquely identify a source for example of a fingerprint capture device or camera or other input source. As another example communication interface may be a network card e.g. an Ethernet card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible local area network LAN or wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a private network. Wireless links are implemented in the about to be described example of running a mobile disaster victim identification algorithm on an intelligent telecommunications device using for example Bluetooth or third generation 3G or fourth generation 4G wireless technologies such as WiMax or LTE. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. For example a forensic investigation may require a data communication connection to a biometric information database comprising for example fingerprint data DNA profile data cornea iris data or other biometric forensic information. A second example is use of one or more data communication connection s to access at least one database at remote server used to store DNA and or non DNA information. Portions of the computations associated with the collection and identification of biometric data as described herein may be distributed across multiple computer systems which may communicate using one or more communication interfaces .

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider or private network service provider ISP . It is intended that such a service provider may operate in a cloud computing environment such that it is a web accessible service for for example identifying a perpetrator of a crime or terrorist act a victim or missing person. An ISP in turn provides data communication services through a packet data communication network such as the worldwide network commonly referred to as the Internet an extranet an intranet or other private or public network. An example of a private network is a secure data network linking law enforcement agencies and used for transmission of DNA and or non DNA information. Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages commands and data and receive messages commands and data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server e.g. remote server might transmit a requested code for an application program ADS or other applications such as LSD or STRESP or peak fitting through Internet host computer local network and communication interface . In accordance with the invention one such downloaded application provides a method of identifying an unknown biological specimen as likely related to a family comprising at least a first and second family member or a biometric information collection and identification software application or a mobile disaster victim identification application or a least squares deconvolution mixture application for resolving DNA mixtures or a peak fitting algorithm or an automated expert system.

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other tangible computer readable medium e.g. non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code and or data in the form of an intangible computer readable medium such as a carrier wave modulated data signal or other propagated signal.

Computer system can be configured using the methods of this invention to provide services across a network to forensic personnel having client computers or intelligent telecommunications devices capable of connection to a network or other communication interface. Such services can include assistance in identification of unidentified remains or portions of remains and storage of DNA and non DNA information about known individuals and missing persons and their relationships or a family pedigree. These services can also be provided to other software located in either computer system or a separate computer system such as remote server or a cloud service connected by a network network link or communication interface to computer system . The services can be protected using methods of authentication and or encryption and or watermarking that are known in the fields of computer science and computer security in order to ensure data are neither compromised nor disclosed and to trace all accesses to the data. The computer system and other associated information storage and communication components can be protected using devices and methods that are known in the fields of computer science and computer security such as with firewalls physical access controls power conditioning equipment and backup or redundant power sources. The protection devices and methods embodied as hardware software or a combination of hardware and software may be incorporated in computer system or exist as separate components typically connected by a network or other communications hardware. The information stored by computer system and computer readable media can be further protected using backup or redundant information storage systems such as those that are well known in the art. Examples include tape storage systems and RAID storage arrays.

After a pedigree and associated typed family members are entered or defined an unknown sample that has been that has been typed and entered or defined may be evaluated against the pedigree by a missing persons kinship MP KN software application as described in U.S. Published Application No. 2008 0040046 published Feb. 14 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 . A pedigree may be directly entered retrieved from a database or constructed from known relationships among family members. The relationship data may be entered or acquired using the mobile device or the data may be retrieved by the mobile device from a local or remote database. Portions of the relationship or pedigree data may be obtained from different sources and at different times. A least squares deconvolution algorithm may be used if a mixture of DNA from two individuals is present in a sample and or a peak fitting algorithm a mass spectrometry algorithm or an expert system may be applied to perform analysis of data and transform it into a more useful form such as the DNA profiles of two likely contributors to a mixture or an accurate DNA profile. Other algorithms may come to mind to one of ordinary skill in the art for identifying a hypothetical missing person crime victim crime perpetrator or contributor to a DNA mixture. Such algorithms may utilize other data instead of or in addition to DNA profile data such as SMT facial profile biometric data such as iris scans or blood vessel patterns in the skin or fingerprints. Either the hypothetical pedigree is proven feasible or it is not feasible or an unknown sample can be ranked against the pedigree and that result may be returned by the MP KN algorithm for display to the user.

The schema is shown in B C and D by example as a collection of database tables and may be contained in a single database or multiple databases. The database scheme is preferably relational as is shown in the figure but other methods may be utilized. For example the methods disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 741 983 7 272 612 7 454 411 and 7 769 803 may be used. The service layer may also be utilized to communicate with computational services such as one that implements a method for DNA mixture deconvolution as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 162 372 and 7 672 789. or such as one that implements a method for determining a likelihood ratio such as is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 467 834 U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2008 0040046 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 201 issued Sep. 18 2012 . or such as one that implements a method to support decision making in associating an unknown biological specimen with a family such as is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 684 539 U.S. Published Application No. 2010 0138374 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 392 issued Oct. 30 2012 .

All patents patent applications articles and other references cited in this disclosure and identified above are expressly incorporated herein by reference as to their entire contents. Further while several preferred embodiments and methods have been described using specific terms and a specific example of an intelligent wireless telephone such description is for illustrative purposes only and it is to be understood that changes and variations may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the following claims.

