---

title: Methods and systems for managing services and device data
abstract: Computationally implemented methods and systems include acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices, generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and/or one or more users of the one or more devices, presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services, and acquiring the generated one or more services, said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data. In addition to the foregoing, other aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626503&OS=09626503&RS=09626503
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09626503
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121231
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application claims benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 720 245 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DATA SERVICES naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 30 Oct. 2012 which was filed within the twelve months preceding the filing date of the present application or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application claims benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 720 874 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DATA SERVICES naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Oct. 2012 which was filed within the twelve months preceding the filing date of the present application or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 685 485 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 26 Nov. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 685 609 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 26 Nov. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 685 488 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 26 Nov. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 685 612 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 26 Nov. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 685 491 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 26 Nov. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 685 613 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 26 Nov. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 692 829 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 3 Dec. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 692 882 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 3 Dec. 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 624 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING ONE OR MORE SERVICES AND OR DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 947 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING ONE OR MORE SERVICES AND OR DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 960 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING SERVICES AND DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 968 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA AND OR SERVICES FOR DEVICES naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 732 127 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DATA AND OR SERVICES FOR DEVICES naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 732 305 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MONITORING AND OR MANAGING DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 732 326 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MONITORING AND OR MANAGING DEVICE DATA naming Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Richard T. Lord Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 31 Dec. 2012 is related to the present application.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designation s are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

In one or more various aspects a method includes but is not limited to acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services and acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data. In addition to the foregoing other method aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the disclosure set forth herein.

In one or more various aspects one or more related systems may be implemented in machines compositions of matter or manufactures of systems limited to patentable subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101. The one or more related systems may include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects. The circuitry and or programming may be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer and limited to patentable subject matter under 35 USC 101.

In one or more various aspects a system includes but is not limited to means for acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices means for generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices means for presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services and means for acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the disclosure set forth herein.

In one or more various aspects a system includes but is not limited to circuitry for acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices circuitry for generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices circuitry for presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services and acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the disclosure set forth herein.

In one or more various aspects a computer program product comprising a signal bearing medium bearing one or more instructions including but not limited to one or more instructions for acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices one or more instructions for generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices and one or more instructions for presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services and one or more instructions for acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the disclosure set forth herein.

In one or more various aspects a device is defined by a computational language such that the device comprises one or more interchained physical machines ordered for acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices one or more interchained physical machines ordered for generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices one or more interchained physical machines ordered for presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services and one or more interchained physical machines ordered for acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data.

In addition to the foregoing various other method and or system and or program product aspects are set forth and described in the teachings such as text e.g. claims and or detailed description and or drawings of the present disclosure.

The foregoing is a summary and thus may contain simplifications generalizations inclusions and or omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is NOT intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects features and advantages of the devices and or processes and or other subject matter described herein will become apparent by reference to the detailed description the corresponding drawings and or in the teachings set forth herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar or identical components or items unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Thus in accordance with various embodiments computationally implemented methods systems circuitry articles of manufacture ordered chains of matter and computer program products are designed to among other things provide an interface for acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services and acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data.

The claims description and drawings of this application may describe one or more of the instant technologies in operational functional language for example as a set of operations to be performed by a computer. Such operational functional description in most instances would be understood by one skilled the art as specifically configured hardware e.g. because a general purpose computer in effect becomes a special purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software .

Importantly although the operational functional descriptions described herein are understandable by the human mind they are not abstract ideas of the operations functions divorced from computational implementation of those operations functions. Rather the operations functions represent a specification for the massively complex computational machines or other means. As discussed in detail below the operational functional language must be read in its proper technological context i.e. as concrete specifications for physical implementations.

The logical operations functions described herein are a distillation of machine specifications or other physical mechanisms specified by the operations functions such that the otherwise inscrutable machine specifications may be comprehensible to the human mind. The distillation also allows one of skill in the art to adapt the operational functional description of the technology across many different specific vendors hardware configurations or platforms without being limited to specific vendors hardware configurations or platforms.

Some of the present technical description e.g. detailed description drawings claims etc. may be set forth in terms of logical operations functions. As described in more detail in the following paragraphs these logical operations functions are not representations of abstract ideas but rather representative of static or sequenced specifications of various hardware elements. Differently stated unless context dictates otherwise the logical operations functions will be understood by those of skill in the art to be representative of static or sequenced specifications of various hardware elements. This is true because tools available to one of skill in the art to implement technical disclosures set forth in operational functional formats tools in the form of a high level programming language e.g. C java visual basic etc. or tools in the form of Very high speed Hardware Description Language VHDL which is a language that uses text to describe logic circuits are generators of static or sequenced specifications of various hardware configurations. This fact is sometimes obscured by the broad term software but as shown by the following explanation those skilled in the art understand that what is termed software is a shorthand for a massively complex interchaining specification of ordered matter elements. The term ordered matter elements may refer to physical components of computation such as assemblies of electronic logic gates molecular computing logic constituents quantum computing mechanisms etc.

For example a high level programming language is a programming language with strong abstraction e.g. multiple levels of abstraction from the details of the sequential organizations states inputs outputs etc. of the machines that a high level programming language actually specifies. See e.g. Wikipedia High level programming language http en.wikipedia.org wiki High level programming language as of Jun. 5 2012 21 00 GMT . In order to facilitate human comprehension in many instances high level programming languages resemble or even share symbols with natural languages. See e.g. Wikipedia Natural language http en.wikipedia.org wiki Natural language as of Jun. 5 2012 21 00 GMT .

It has been argued that because high level programming languages use strong abstraction e.g. that they may resemble or share symbols with natural languages they are therefore a purely mental construct. e.g. that software a computer program or computer programming is somehow an ineffable mental construct because at a high level of abstraction it can be conceived and understood in the human mind . This argument has been used to characterize technical description in the form of functions operations as somehow abstract ideas. In fact in technological arts e.g. the information and communication technologies this is not true.

The fact that high level programming languages use strong abstraction to facilitate human understanding should not be taken as an indication that what is expressed is an abstract idea. In fact those skilled in the art understand that just the opposite is true. If a high level programming language is the tool used to implement a technical disclosure in the form of functions operations those skilled in the art will recognize that far from being abstract imprecise fuzzy or mental in any significant semantic sense such a tool is instead a near incomprehensibly precise sequential specification of specific computational machines the parts of which are built up by activating selecting such parts from typically more general computational machines over time e.g. clocked time . This fact is sometimes obscured by the superficial similarities between high level programming languages and natural languages. These superficial similarities also may cause a glossing over of the fact that high level programming language implementations ultimately perform valuable work by creating controlling many different computational machines.

The many different computational machines that a high level programming language specifies are almost unimaginably complex. At base the hardware used in the computational machines typically consists of some type of ordered matter e.g. traditional electronic devices e.g. transistors deoxyribonucleic acid DNA quantum devices mechanical switches optics fluidics pneumatics optical devices e.g. optical interference devices molecules etc. that are arranged to form logic gates. Logic gates are typically physical devices that may be electrically mechanically chemically or otherwise driven to change physical state in order to create a physical reality of Boolean logic.

Logic gates may be arranged to form logic circuits which are typically physical devices that may be electrically mechanically chemically or otherwise driven to create a physical reality of certain logical functions. Types of logic circuits include such devices as multiplexers registers arithmetic logic units ALUs computer memory etc. each type of which may be combined to form yet other types of physical devices such as a central processing unit CPU the best known of which is the microprocessor. A modern microprocessor will often contain more than one hundred million logic gates in its many logic circuits and often more than a billion transistors . See e.g. Wikipedia Logic gates http en.wikipedia.org wiki Logic gates as of Jun. 5 2012 21 03 GMT .

The logic circuits forming the microprocessor are arranged to provide a microarchitecture that will carry out the instructions defined by that microprocessor s defined Instruction Set Architecture. The Instruction Set Architecture is the part of the microprocessor architecture related to programming including the native data types instructions registers addressing modes memory architecture interrupt and exception handling and external Input Output. See e.g. Wikipedia Computer architecture http en.wikipedia.org wiki Computer architecture as of Jun. 5 2012 21 03 GMT .

The Instruction Set Architecture includes a specification of the machine language that can be used by programmers to use control the microprocessor. Since the machine language instructions are such that they may be executed directly by the microprocessor typically they consist of strings of binary digits or bits. For example a typical machine language instruction might be many bits long e.g. 32 64 or 128 bit strings are currently common . A typical machine language instruction might take the form 11110000101011110000111100111111 a 32 bit instruction .

It is significant here that although the machine language instructions are written as sequences of binary digits in actuality those binary digits specify physical reality. For example if certain semiconductors are used to make the operations of Boolean logic a physical reality the apparently mathematical bits 1 and 0 in a machine language instruction actually constitute shorthand that specifies the application of specific voltages to specific wires. For example in some semiconductor technologies the binary number 1 e.g. logical 1 in a machine language instruction specifies around 5 volts applied to a specific wire e.g. metallic traces on a printed circuit board and the binary number 0 e.g. logical 0 in a machine language instruction specifies around 5 volts applied to a specific wire. In addition to specifying voltages of the machines configuration such machine language instructions also select out and activate specific groupings of logic gates from the millions of logic gates of the more general machine. Thus far from abstract mathematical expressions machine language instruction programs even though written as a string of zeros and ones specify many many constructed physical machines or physical machine states.

Machine language is typically incomprehensible by most humans e.g. the above example was just ONE instruction and some personal computers execute more than two billion instructions every second . See e.g. Wikipedia Instructions per second http en.wikipedia.org wiki Instructions per second as of Jun. 5 2012 21 04 GMT . Thus programs written in machine language which may be tens of millions of machine language instructions long are incomprehensible. In view of this early assembly languages were developed that used mnemonic codes to refer to machine language instructions rather than using the machine language instructions numeric values directly e.g. for performing a multiplication operation programmers coded the abbreviation mult which represents the binary number 011000 in MIPS machine code . While assembly languages were initially a great aid to humans controlling the microprocessors to perform work in time the complexity of the work that needed to be done by the humans outstripped the ability of humans to control the microprocessors using merely assembly languages.

At this point it was noted that the same tasks needed to be done over and over and the machine language necessary to do those repetitive tasks was the same. In view of this compilers were created. A compiler is a device that takes a statement that is more comprehensible to a human than either machine or assembly language such as add 2 2 and output the result and translates that human understandable statement into a complicated tedious and immense machine language code e.g. millions of 32 64 or 128 bit length strings . Compilers thus translate high level programming language into machine language.

This compiled machine language as described above is then used as the technical specification which sequentially constructs and causes the interoperation of many different computational machines such that humanly useful tangible and concrete work is done. For example as indicated above such machine language the compiled version of the higher level language functions as a technical specification which selects out hardware logic gates specifies voltage levels voltage transition timings etc. such that the humanly useful work is accomplished by the hardware.

Thus a functional operational technical description when viewed by one of skill in the art is far from an abstract idea. Rather such a functional operational technical description when understood through the tools available in the art such as those just described is instead understood to be a humanly understandable representation of a hardware specification the complexity and specificity of which far exceeds the comprehension of most any one human. With this in mind those skilled in the art will understand that any such operational functional technical descriptions in view of the disclosures herein and the knowledge of those skilled in the art may be understood as operations made into physical reality by a one or more interchained physical machines b interchained logic gates configured to create one or more physical machine s representative of sequential combinatorial logic s c interchained ordered matter making up logic gates e.g. interchained electronic devices e.g. transistors DNA quantum devices mechanical switches optics fluidics pneumatics molecules etc. that create physical reality representative of logic s or d virtually any combination of the foregoing. Indeed any physical object which has a stable measurable and changeable state may be used to construct a machine based on the above technical description. Charles Babbage for example constructed the first computer out of wood and powered by cranking a handle.

Thus far from being understood as an abstract idea those skilled in the art will recognize a functional operational technical description as a humanly understandable representation of one or more almost unimaginably complex and time sequenced hardware instantiations. The fact that functional operational technical descriptions might lend themselves readily to high level computing languages or high level block diagrams for that matter that share some words structures phrases etc. with natural language simply cannot be taken as an indication that such functional operational technical descriptions are abstract ideas or mere expressions of abstract ideas. In fact as outlined herein in the technological arts this is simply not true. When viewed through the tools available to those of skill in the art such functional operational technical descriptions are seen as specifying hardware configurations of almost unimaginable complexity.

As outlined above the reason for the use of functional operational technical descriptions is at least twofold. First the use of functional operational technical descriptions allows near infinitely complex machines and machine operations arising from interchained hardware elements to be described in a manner that the human mind can process e.g. by mimicking natural language and logical narrative flow . Second the use of functional operational technical descriptions assists the person of skill in the art in understanding the described subject matter by providing a description that is more or less independent of any specific vendor s piece s of hardware.

The use of functional operational technical descriptions assists the person of skill in the art in understanding the described subject matter since as is evident from the above discussion one could easily although not quickly transcribe the technical descriptions set forth in this document as trillions of ones and zeroes billions of single lines of assembly level machine code millions of logic gates thousands of gate arrays or any number of intermediate levels of abstractions. However if any such low level technical descriptions were to replace the present technical description a person of skill in the art could encounter undue difficulty in implementing the disclosure because such a low level technical description would likely add complexity without a corresponding benefit e.g. by describing the subject matter utilizing the conventions of one or more vendor specific pieces of hardware . Thus the use of functional operational technical descriptions assists those of skill in the art by separating the technical descriptions from the conventions of any vendor specific piece of hardware.

In view of the foregoing the logical operations functions set forth in the present technical description are representative of static or sequenced specifications of various ordered matter elements in order that such specifications may be comprehensible to the human mind and adaptable to create many various hardware configurations. The logical operations functions disclosed herein should be treated as such and should not be disparagingly characterized as abstract ideas merely because the specifications they represent are presented in a manner that one of skill in the art can readily understand and apply in a manner independent of a specific vendor s hardware implementation.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines compositions of matter and articles of manufacture limited to patentable subject matter under 35 USC 101. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures. Electronic circuitry for example may have one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media may be configured to bear a device detectable implementation when such media hold or transmit device detectable instructions operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example implementations may include an update or modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of virtually any functional operations described herein. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example implementations may be provided in whole or in part by source code such as C or other code sequences. In other implementations source or other code implementation using commercially available and or techniques in the art may be compiled implemented translated converted into a high level descriptor language e.g. initially implementing described technologies in C or C programming language and thereafter converting the programming language implementation into a logic synthesizable language implementation a hardware description language implementation a hardware design simulation implementation and or other such similar mode s of expression . For example some or all of a logical expression e.g. computer programming language implementation may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description e.g. via Hardware Description Language HDL and or Very High Speed Integrated Circuit Hardware Descriptor Language VHDL or other circuitry model which may then be used to create a physical implementation having hardware e.g. an Application Specific Integrated Circuit . Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other structures in light of these teachings.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to implement devices and or processes and or systems and thereafter use engineering and or other practices to integrate such implemented devices and or processes and or systems into more comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes and or systems described herein can be integrated into other devices and or processes and or systems via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that examples of such other devices and or processes and or systems might include as appropriate to context and application all or part of devices and or processes and or systems of a an air conveyance e.g. an airplane rocket helicopter etc. b a ground conveyance e.g. a car truck locomotive tank armored personnel carrier etc. c a building e.g. a home warehouse office etc. d an appliance e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine a dryer etc. e a communications system e.g. a networked system a telephone system a Voice over IP system etc. f a business entity e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP entity such as Comcast Cable Qwest Southwestern Bell etc. or g a wired wireless services entity e.g. Sprint Cingular Nextel etc. etc.

In certain cases use of a system or method may occur in a territory even if components are located outside the territory. For example in a distributed computing context use of a distributed computing system may occur in a territory even though parts of the system may be located outside of the territory e.g. relay server processor signal bearing medium transmitting computer receiving computer etc. located outside the territory .

A sale of a system or method may likewise occur in a territory even if components of the system or method are located and or used outside the territory. Further implementation of at least part of a system for performing a method in one territory does not preclude use of the system in another territory

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof limited to patentable subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs e.g. graphene based circuitry . Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical image processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a mote system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical mote system generally includes one or more memories such as volatile or non volatile memories processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems user interfaces drivers sensors actuators applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. an antenna USB ports acoustic ports etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing or estimating position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A mote system may be implemented utilizing suitable components such as those found in mote computing communication systems. Specific examples of such components entail such as Intel Corporation s and or Crossbow Corporation s mote components and supporting hardware software and or firmware.

For the purposes of this application cloud computing may be understood as described in the cloud computing literature. For example cloud computing may be methods and or systems for the delivery of computational capacity and or storage capacity as a service. The cloud may refer to one or more hardware and or software components that deliver or assist in the delivery of computational and or storage capacity including but not limited to one or more of a client an application a platform an infrastructure and or a server The cloud may refer to any of the hardware and or software associated with a client an application a platform an infrastructure and or a server. For example cloud and cloud computing may refer to one or more of a computer a processor a storage medium a router a switch a modem a virtual machine e.g. a virtual server a data center an operating system a middleware a firmware a hardware back end a software back end and or a software application. A cloud may refer to a private cloud a public cloud a hybrid cloud and or a community cloud. A cloud may be a shared pool of configurable computing resources which may be public private semi private distributable scaleable flexible temporary virtual and or physical. A cloud or cloud service may be delivered over one or more types of network e.g. a mobile communication network and the Internet.

As used in this application a cloud or a cloud service may include one or more of infrastructure as a service IaaS platform as a service PaaS software as a service SaaS and or desktop as a service DaaS . As a non exclusive example IaaS may include e.g. one or more virtual server instantiations that may start stop access and or configure virtual servers and or storage centers e.g. providing one or more processors storage space and or network resources on demand e.g. EMC and Rackspace . PaaS may include e.g. one or more software and or development tools hosted on an infrastructure e.g. a computing platform and or a solution stack from which the client can create software interfaces and applications e.g. Microsoft Azure . SaaS may include e.g. software hosted by a service provider and accessible over a network e.g. the software for the application and or the data associated with that software application may be kept on the network e.g. Google Apps SalesForce . DaaS may include e.g. providing desktop applications data and or services for the user over a network e.g. providing a multi application framework the applications in the framework the data associated with the applications and or services related to the applications and or the data over the network e.g. Citrix . The foregoing is intended to be exemplary of the types of systems and or methods referred to in this application as cloud or cloud computing and should not be considered complete or exhaustive.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

To the extent that formal outline headings are present in this application it is to be understood that the outline headings are for presentation purposes and that different types of subject matter may be discussed throughout the application e.g. device s structure s may be described under process es operations heading s and or process es operations may be discussed under structure s process es headings and or descriptions of single topics may span two or more topic headings . Hence any use of formal outline headings in this application is for presentation purposes and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Throughout this application examples and lists are given with parentheses the abbreviation e.g. or both. Unless explicitly otherwise stated these examples and lists are merely exemplary and are non exhaustive. In most cases it would be prohibitive to list every example and every combination. Thus smaller illustrative lists and examples are used with focus on imparting understanding of the claim terms rather than limiting the scope of such terms.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations are not expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

Although user is shown described herein e.g. in and other places as a single illustrated figure those skilled in the art will appreciate that user may be representative of one or more human users robotic users e.g. computational entity and or substantially any combination thereof e.g. a user may be assisted by one or more robotic agents unless context dictates otherwise. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in general the same may be said of sender and or other entity oriented terms as such terms are used herein unless context dictates otherwise.

In some instances one or more components may be referred to herein as configured to configured by configurable to operable operative to adapted adaptable able to conformable conformed to etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that such terms e.g. configured to generally encompass active state components and or inactive state components and or standby state components unless context requires otherwise.

In known systems devices that are associated with one or more users e.g. phones tablets laptops desktops cars game systems appliances and the like may collect data regarding the user. This data may be desired by third parties. The following describes among other implementations methods and systems of managing user data collected by one or more devices that may also be useful to entities that are not the user and which entities may not necessarily have access to the data.

Referring now to illustrates an example environment in which the methods systems circuitry articles of manufacture and computer program products and architecture in accordance with various embodiments may be implemented by one or more computing devices . As shown in one or more personal devices one or more service providers one or more service developers and one or more computing devices may communicate via one or more communication networks . In an embodiment service provider may have one or more services that personal device may want. In an embodiment computing device which may be a remote or local server or distributed set of servers may manage data that is gathered stored controlled accessed restricted monitored under the control of checked examined verified authenticated authorized manipulated updated altered filtered or otherwise acted upon whether passively or actively by personal device . In an embodiment as described in more detail herein computing device may have access to some or all of the data on personal device . In another embodiment computing device may have access to only a portion of the data on personal device . In still another embodiment computing device may have access to a modified version of the data on personal device . Specifically in an embodiment computing device may have access to the data stored on personal device but in anonymous form.

In an embodiment computing device may offer one or more services to personal device . In an embodiment the offer of one or more services may be conditional on a grant of access to part or all of the data stored and or collected by personal device . In an embodiment computing device may receive one or more services from service provider and or service developer and may select one or more of the received services for presentation to the personal device . In an embodiment the data from personal device may be shared with one or more of service provider and service developer . In an embodiment the data from personal device may be anonymized prior to sharing with service developer and or service developer .

Referring again to shows a personal device . Personal device may be any electronic device portable or not that may be operated by or associated with one or more users. Personal device is shown as interacting with a user . As set forth above user may be a person or a group of people or another entity that mimics the operations of a user. In some embodiments user may be a computer or a computer controlled device. Personal device may be but is not limited to a cellular phone a network phone a smartphone a tablet a music player a walkie talkie a radio a USB drive a portable solid state drive a portable disc type hard drive an augmented reality device e.g. augmented reality glasses and or headphones earphones headphones audio visual equipment media player television projection screen flat screen monitor clock appliance e.g. microwave convection oven stove refrigerator freezer a navigation system e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS system a medical alert device a remote control a peripheral an electronic safe an electronic lock an electronic security system a video camera a personal video recorder a personal audio recorder and the like.

Referring again to personal device may include an operating system . In this context operating system refers to any hardware software firmware and combination thereof which is considered at the core or baseline of a device. For example applications that interact directly with hardware may be considered to be part of an operating system. In some embodiments operating system may be an FPGA printed circuit board or other wired device. In an embodiment operating system may include one or more of Google s Android Apple s iOS Microsoft s Windows various implementations of Linux and the like. In some embodiments operating system may include a root menu for one or more televisions stereo systems media players and the like. In some embodiments operating system may be a home screen of a device.

Referring again to in an embodiment personal device may include a user interface . User interface may include any hardware software firmware and combination thereof that allow a user to interact with a personal device and for a personal device to interact with a user . In some embodiments user interface may include a monitor screen touchscreen liquid crystal display LCD screen light emitting diode LED screen speaker handset earpiece keyboard keypad touchpad mouse trackball remote control button set microphone video camera still camera a charge coupled device CCD element a photovoltaic element and the like.

Referring again to in some embodiments personal device may include a device memory . In some embodiments device memory may include memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory hard drives disk based media disc based media magnetic storage optical storage volatile memory nonvolatile memory and any combination thereof. In some embodiments device memory may be separated from the device e.g. available on a different device on a network or over the air. For example in a networked system there may be many personal devices whose device memory is located at a central server that may be a few feet away or located across an ocean.

Referring again to in some embodiments device memory may include one or more of protected data A and unprotected data B. Not all embodiments include each or both of these but protected data A and unprotected data B may be present in one or more embodiments. Protected data A may include any data including data stored on personal device data for which personal device maintains at least partial control of data for which personal device monitors or provides the ability to monitor and the like for which some form of authorization is required to access the data. The authorization may take any form and relate to any sub unit including both internally and externally to the device. For example in an embodiment protected data A may include data which is not available to at least one application running on a computing device. For another example in an embodiment protected data A may be available to one application at any time and to another application at specific times or at times when the first application is not using the data. In an embodiment protected data A includes data for which an application must be authenticated e.g. a Microsoft operating system certification or a user flag set to true in order to access the protected data A.

In an embodiment protected data A includes data that a user e.g. user cannot view until the user verifies their identity e.g. through a password input or biometric identification. In an embodiment protected data A is limited to the device and is not transmitted to any other system not under the direct control of the personal device . In an embodiment protected data A is limited to the personal device and only applications originating at the personal device or originating with the user are allowed to read protected data A. In an embodiment personal device modifies or directs to be modified protected data A so at least a portion of the protected data A is altered or obscured. In an embodiment personal device allows protected data A to be transmitted to an external entity under the condition that the external entity will alter or obscure at least a portion of the protected data A.

Referring again to in an embodiment personal device may include device memory which in some embodiments may include unprotected data B. In an embodiment unprotected data B may have no protections or limitations. In another embodiment unprotected data B may have protections and limitations but be less protected and or less limited than protected data B. In an embodiment unprotected data B is broadcasted or otherwise transmitted upon request. In an embodiment unprotected data B cannot be accessed by an entity external to personal device due to device design or other factors but there is no specific protection on unprotected data B from access by one or more entities external to personal device .

Referring again to in an embodiment personal device may include device interface component . In an embodiment device interface component includes any component that allows the device to interact with its environment. For example in an embodiment device interface component includes one or more sensors e.g. a camera a microphone an accelerometer a thermometer a satellite positioning system SPS sensor a barometer a humidity sensor a compass a gyroscope a magnetometer a pressure sensor an oscillation detector a light sensor an inertial measurement unit IMU a tactile sensor a touch sensor a flexibility sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS a radio including a wireless radio a transmitter a receiver an emitter a broadcaster and the like. In an embodiment device interface component also may include one or more user interface components e.g. user interface e.g. although they are drawn separately in some embodiments user interface is a type of device interface component and in some embodiments including one or more user input receiving components and output presenting components.

Referring again to in an embodiment device interface component may include protected component A. Protected component A may include any device interface component of which some non limiting examples previously were enumerated for which some form of authorization and or authentication is required to access the data. The authorization may take any form and relate to any sub unit including both internally and externally to the device. In an embodiment protected component A is similar to protected data A. For example in an embodiment a personal device e.g. a smart phone may have twelve applications running on the smartphone. In an embodiment six of those applications may have access to a protected component A e.g. a positioning sensor and the other six may not. In some embodiments data collected by a protected component A is part of the protected component A. In some embodiments data collected by a protected component A becomes protected data A. In some embodiments data collected by a protected component A becomes protected data A some of the time or none of the time. In some embodiments data collected by a protected component A may be part of protected component A for a particular amount of time e.g. two weeks and then may transition to unprotected data or data that is not considered protected or unprotected. In some embodiments a protected component A may be accessible to everyone at particular times and or circumstances. For example a protected component A e.g. a wireless radio may be accessible to any entity between the hours of 7 and 8 pm and only accessible to specific entities and or applications at other times. In some embodiments a protected component A e.g. an image capturing component may be accessible to any entity when one or more conditions are met which conditions may or may not be related to the protected component A or the personal device e.g. when the personal device is at a particular location.

Referring again to in some embodiments computing device may include personal device interface module . In some embodiments personal device interface module may communicate with one or more personal devices . In some embodiments personal device interface module may receive data received from a personal device . Acquired personal device data may include any data gathered from personal device in any manner. In some embodiments computing device may request data from personal device . In some embodiments computing device may receive data from personal device on a schedule. In some embodiments computing device may retrieve data from personal device when certain conditions are met. In some embodiments personal device is broadcasting data and computing device gathers the broadcasted data. In some embodiments personal device broadcasts data that only computing device can use e.g. decrypt interpret or the like . In some embodiments personal device may transmit acquired personal device data to computing device using one or more communication networks which will be described in more detail herein.

Referring again to in some embodiments the acquired personal device data may be anonymous data A. In an embodiment anonymous data refers to data from which the origin of the data cannot be uniquely identified. In some embodiments the origin of the data may refer to the personal device e.g. a unique identifier e.g. a MAC address. In some embodiments the origin of the data may refer to a user associated with the data either through ownership use or other relationship with the device e.g. a username a user s name or a user s social security or other identifying number or network address or identification. It is noted that in some embodiments the device may be able to recognize the origin of the data e.g. an identity of personal device that is transmitting the data due to the nature of the data transmission but be unable to deduce the origin of the data through the data itself in which case in some embodiments this data is still considered anonymous data A.

Anonymous data A may include data for which uniquely identifying information has been removed or data for which uniquely identifying information has been concealed obscured made uncertain made ambiguous screened camouflaged masked veiled shrouded hidden encoded encrypted or otherwise altered. In some embodiments the received anonymous data A never included uniquely identifying information. In some embodiments anonymous data A may partially or non uniquely identify its origin e.g. the user or the personal device from which the anonymous data came. In some embodiments uniquely identifying information may be extracted from anonymous data A using additional information e.g. a lookup table hash or other known algorithm. In some embodiments uniquely identifying information may be deduced from anonymous data A without additional information. In some embodiments uniquely identifying information may not be retrieved from anonymous data A once the data is in its anonymous format.

In an embodiment acquired personal device data may include non anonymous data B. In some embodiments non anonymous data B may identify either explicitly or implicitly the origin of the data. In some embodiments the origin of the data may refer to the personal device e.g. a unique identifier e.g. a MAC address. In some embodiments the origin of the data may refer to a user associated with the data either through ownership use or other relationship with the device e.g. a username a user s name or a user s social security or other identifying number or network address or identification.

Referring to data anonymization systems and methods are illustrated. Although these systems and methods are illustrated as part of computing device this is merely for convenience of drawing. In an embodiment one or more of data de anonymization information storing module data anonymizer module A and data obscuring module B may be located within personal device . In an embodiment these modules may interact directly with device memory . In an embodiment as pictured in computing device may include a data anonymizer module A that converts non anonymous data B into anonymized data in a process described in more detail with respect to . In an embodiment depending on the type of anonymization there may be additional data that can be used to return the anonymized data into non anonymous data e.g. a lookup table. In some such embodiments the additional data e.g. de anonymization data may be stored in data de anonymization information storing module .

Referring again to in an embodiment computing device may include a data obscuring module B. For example in an embodiment data obscuring module B may obscure the non anonymous data B similarly to the data anonymizer module A. For example in an embodiment data obscuring module B may apply data masking. In an embodiment data obscuring module B may obscure by addition e.g. by adding false identification information to the true identification information so that the false identification information may not be distinguished from the true identification information. Data de anonymization information storing module data anonymizer module A and data obscuring module B may be absent in some embodiments.

Referring again to in an embodiment computing device may include service developer interface module . Service developer interface module may communicate with service developer e.g. via communication network . Specifically in an embodiment service developer interface module may provide limited information regarding the acquired personal device data . In an embodiment for example service developer interface module may provide information to service developer regarding the type of data collected. In an embodiment for example service developer interface module may provide information to service developer regarding an aggregate synopsis of the data collected. In an embodiment service developer may receive such information and make a decision about what types of services to develop e.g. using development decision module .

Referring again to in an embodiment computing device may include service provider interface module . In an embodiment service provider interface module may communicate with service provider e.g. via communication network .

In an embodiment service provider interface module may include data rights management module A. In an embodiment data rights management module A may keep track of which services have rights to which personal device data. For example in an embodiment service A may have rights to certain anonymous data A. For another example in an embodiment service B may have rights to data that has been processed through the data anonymizer A.

Referring again to in an embodiment service provider interface module may include service information module B. Service information module B may include a list of services that are provided from service provider so that such information may be delivered to personal device in an embodiment. In an embodiment computing device may present one or more of the services listed in service information module B to personal device either upon request or upon detecting that personal device may be interested in one or more of the services.

Referring again to in an embodiment service provider may provide services to a personal device . In an embodiment these services may be delivered to directly to personal device . In an embodiment service provider has limited or no communication with personal device and communication is handled through an intermediary e.g. computing device . In an embodiment computing device handles the delivery of services and data between service provider and personal device such that protected data A and protected component A are protected from service provider but that service provider can still provide services e.g. service A and service B to personal device . In an embodiment service provider includes a list of services management module that maintains a list of services to present to computing device e.g. to allow service information module B of computing device to maintain information about various services.

In various embodiments the communication network may include one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wireless local area network WLAN a personal area network PAN a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX public switched telephone network PTSN a general packet radio service GPRS network a cellular network and so forth. The communication networks may be wired wireless or a combination of wired and wireless networks. It is noted that communication network as used herein and in the drawings refers to one or more communication networks which may or may not interact with each other and which in some embodiments may work in concert wittingly or unwittingly to facilitate communication between one or more entities.

Referring now to an embodiment may include a personal device A and a personal device B. Personal device A may generate non anonymous data A and personal device B may generate non anonymous data B. Non anonymous data A and non anonymous data B may be transmitted to computing device A which may be a non exclusive and non limiting example of computing device . In an embodiment computing device A may include a data anonymizer module A. In an embodiment data anonymizer module A may include irreversible anonymizer module A which generates anonymous data that is irreversible e.g. in an example the identifying data has been removed. In an embodiment data anonymizer module A may include collective anonymizer module B which may take the non anonymous data A and the non anonymous data B and create an aggregated general anonymous data as shown . In an embodiment data anonymizer module A may include reversible anonymizer module C which may use a private lookup table A to convert the non anonymous data into anonymous data. In an embodiment that private lookup table A may be stored in the data deanonymization information storing module .

Referring now to in an embodiment a computing device B may have a data anonymizer A that may apply an anonymizing function A as shown in . For example an anonymizing function may use a cryptographic method a perturbation method a DataFly algorithm top down specialization and or Mondarian multi dimensional k anonymity as non limiting and non exclusive examples. In another embodiment a data obscuring module B obscures the non anonymous data. In an embodiment the obscuring may be accomplished by adding similar looking and plausible false data to the actual identifying data so that later the true data cannot be determined merely by looking at the data. In an embodiment the anonymized data may be used by the service provider interface module to give data to the service provider either to carry out a portion of a service or to determine which services may be useful to one or more personal devices .

The examples shown in are merely examples of how a data anonymizer might be implemented and are not intended to be limiting or exclusive. There are many other techniques for anonymizing the data some of which will be mentioned herein.

Referring now to shows an embodiment of the invention focusing on a service provider and a computing device C. Computing device C may receive data from one or more devices and that data may be anonymized already or may not be anonymized or may already be obscured. In an embodiment computing device C may generate obscured data from the data received from one or more devices whether received directly from the one or more devices or indirectly from another source. In an embodiment Computing device C may obscure received data even if the received data is already anonymized. In another embodiment computing device C may not perform additional steps on previously anonymized or obscured data.

Referring again to in an embodiment computing device C may request one or more services that may be executed on one or more devices. The one or more services may be performed independently by the one or more devices or may be performed with facilitation of one or more portions of the services by computing device C. Computing device C may request that service provider provide one or more services that can be presented to the one or more devices. In an embodiment computing device C may transmit obscured data to service provider . This transmission may take place via any form of network e.g. communication network not pictured in . In an embodiment service provider may be integral with computing device C. In an embodiment service provider and computing device C may be under the control of a single entity.

Referring again to in an embodiment service provider may receive the obscured data . The obscured data may be in any format as described in several examples herein. The examples illustrated in and in the following figures are intended for ease of understanding only and should not be considered an exhaustive or an exclusive enumeration of ways that data may be obscured. For example in an embodiment irreversible anonymous data A may be obscured by deleting the device origin information from the data such that the data cannot be recovered using the irreversible anonymous data A. In order to obtain the original device information that formed the irreversible anonymous data A a copy of the original data may be retrieved. For example in an embodiment computing device C may store a separate copy of the data that resulted in the irreversible anonymous data A with uniquely identifying device information present in the copy kept by computing device C.

In an embodiment obscured data may include reversible anonymous data B. Data B is not limited to a particular type of format but a simple example is shown. In the example the device identifiers of the one or more personal devices A and B e.g. and are converted to new identifiers XYZ and YYZ e.g. as shown in which in an embodiment may prevent service provider from learning the identity of devices and . In an embodiment reversible anonymous data B may be converted into data that uniquely identifies one or more devices through the providing of one or more algorithms lookup tables keys encryption keys hash functions and the like.

In an embodiment obscured data may include general anonymous data C. In an embodiment this type of data may include any format of aggregated data which gives information about one or more devices but does not particularly identify the one or more devices that led to the aggregate information. For example general anonymous data C may include such data as thirty five devices with more than twenty contacts in a contact list found or more specific data such as thirty five smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone 4S running iOS 6.0 with more than 2.0 gigabytes of space remaining with more than twenty contacts in a contact list found. 

Referring again to in an embodiment service provider may receive obscured data as shown in . In an embodiment service provider may include an obscured data analyzer module . Obscured data analyzer module may receive the obscured data and use the obscured data to determine one or more services or types of services that may be useful to the devices referenced in the obscured data . Obscured data analyzer module may be completely automated or may have some human intervention in the process. In an embodiment obscured data analyzer may obtain obscured data from several different computing devices C which may allow service provider to provide one or more services more efficiently. In an embodiment service provider may include service management module . Service management module may include existing service analyzing module A and new service generation module B. Existing service analyzing module A and new service generation module B may work together or separately and with or without obscured data analyzer module to determine if a service exists that meets the needs determined based on the received obscured data. If such a service does not exist then new service generation module B may generate a new service either by requesting from a third party requesting human intervention e.g. human programming of a new service or may generate a new service automatically.

In an embodiment service provider may include a service transmission module which may transmit one or more services back to the computing device C e.g. to service receiving module B which in an embodiment may be a portion of service provider interface module . In various embodiments once one or more actions are taken with respect to receiving the one or more services deobscuring data which may be data that can deobscure the obscured data may be transmitted to the service provider e.g. to data deobscuring module of service provider . In an embodiment deobscuring data is combined with obscured data to result in deobscured data. In another embodiment deobscuring data does not need to be combined with obscured data in order to result in the deobscured data. In an embodiment deobscuring data may be transmitted upon receipt of one or more services . In another embodiment one or more actions related to one or more services e.g. proposing the one or more services to one or more devices may be carried out prior to transmitting the deobscuring data . In an embodiment if a particular number of users do not use one or more services then computing device C may not transfer deobscuring data .

Referring now to shows an embodiment of the invention as shown in exemplary embodiment . For example shows computing device D interacting with personal device . In an embodiment computing device D receives device data from personal device . Although shows this transfer as coming directly from personal device in an embodiment computing device D may receive device data from any source including a third device a communication network a social networking site a device manufacturer and the like. In an embodiment computing device D monitors one or more personal devices for device data . In an embodiment computing device D monitors one or more other sources for device data regarding personal devices .

In an embodiment device data may include data that personal device has collected. In an embodiment the device data may be modified to obscure an identity of the device or a user of the device . In an embodiment the device data is not obscured. In an embodiment device data may be about data that is stored on device or otherwise under the control of personal device rather than being the actual data under the control of personal device . For example as shown in personal device may include protected data A which in an embodiment may include the last thirty locations visited by personal device . In an embodiment device data may include the last thirty locations visited by personal device . In another embodiment device data may include an indication that personal device has thirty device locations stored in its memory. In an embodiment device data may include an indication that personal device has thirty device locations stored in its memory and 20 of those locations are locations for which an interest has been expressed by an entity in communication with computing device D.

Referring again to in an embodiment computing device D may include personal device interface module . Personal device interface module may include data value monitoring module A. In an embodiment data value monitoring module A may receive information regarding which types of data are valuable e.g. location data or location data indicating that a device is inside Times Square on New Years Eve and the like and may monitor one or more devices and other locations for one or more indications that a personal device has data estimated to be valuable and whether that data is protected. In an embodiment personal device interface module may include device information receiving module B configured to receive device data . Device data may have any number of formats as described above and as shown by way of non limiting example in the examples given further herein.

Referring again to in an embodiment computing device D may include device monitoring module C. In an embodiment device monitoring module C may monitor one or more personal devices through any monitoring technique. In an embodiment device monitoring module C may include software hardware or firmware associated with personal device that may be configured to report back to device monitoring module C at particular intervals. In an embodiment device monitoring module C may monitor personal device through one or more communication networks not pictured and may communicate directly with personal device . In an embodiment device monitoring module C may monitor personal device through indirect means e.g. through other devices or systems that may be used by personal device .

Referring again to in an embodiment personal device interface module may include service offering module D. For example as described previously computing device D may acquire one or more services. These services may be presented to personal device either for presentation to a user or for an automated decision regarding whether to accept the services. In an embodiment the one or more services may require access to protected data e.g. protected data A of the personal device or one or more protected components e.g. protected component A of personal device or both. In an embodiment computing device D may facilitate the presentation of the one or more services to a user of the personal device via the personal device .

Referring again to shows a more detailed description of computing device . In an embodiment computing device may include a processor . Processor may include one or more microprocessors Central Processing Units CPU a Graphics Processing Units GPU Physics Processing Units Digital Signal Processors Network Processors Floating Point Processors and the like. In some embodiments processor may be a server. In some embodiments processor may be a distributed core processor. Although processor is as a single processor that is part of a single computing device processor may be multiple processors distributed over one or many computing devices which may or may not be configured to operate together. Processor is illustrated as being configured to execute computer readable instructions in order to execute one or more operations described above and as illustrated in . In some embodiments processor is designed to be configured to operate as processing module which may include one or more of device attribute data related to one or more device attributes obtaining module anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data presentation to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module and one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring module .

In an embodiment computing device may include a device memory . In some embodiments memory may comprise of one or more of one or more mass storage devices read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM cache memory such as random access memory RAM flash memory synchronous random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM and or other types of memory devices. In some embodiments memory may be located at a single network site. In some embodiments memory may be located at multiple network sites including sites that are distant from each other.

Referring now to illustrates an exemplary implementation of the device attribute data related to one or more device attributes obtaining module . As illustrated in the device attribute data related to one or more device attributes obtaining module may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative implementations and embodiments. For example as shown in e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of device contact list data related to a contact list attribute of a device obtaining module device attribute data related to one or more device attributes receiving module device attribute data related to one or more device attributes collecting module device data communication via network monitoring module and attribute data related to one or more device attributes collecting through monitoring communication by the one or more devices over a communication network module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of contact list size data describing a number of contacts stored in a contact list of a device obtaining module and contact list size data describing a number of contacts stored in a contact list of a device that have both an email address and a telephone number obtaining module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of device attribute data related to one or more device attributes receiving from the one or more devices module and device attribute data related to one or more device attributes receiving from a social networking site module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of device attribute data related to a status of one or more devices obtaining module device attribute data related to a characteristic of one or more devices obtaining module device sensor attribute data related to a presence of one or more sensors on more devices obtaining module and device criterion data related to number of devices that meet one or more criteria obtaining module . In some embodiments module may include device attribute data related to an environment dependent property of one or more devices obtaining module . In some embodiments module may include device location data related to a present location of one or more devices obtaining module . In some embodiments module may include device attribute data related to an environment independent property of one or more devices obtaining module . In some embodiments module may include device contact list data related to an amount of memory taken up by a contact list stored on one or more devices obtaining module . In some embodiments module may include device image capturing criterion data indicating a number of devices have an image capturing sensor having at least a resolution of five megapixels obtaining module .

Referring now to illustrates an exemplary implementation of anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module . As illustrated in the anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative implementations and embodiments. For example as shown in e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data including one or more contact lists and one or more device identification numbers of one or more devices to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module e.g. which in some embodiments may include anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data including one or more contact lists and one or more device identification numbers of one or more devices by substituting a particular character of the device identification number with a different character to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by altering acquired attribute data to obscure a device identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by altering acquired attribute data to obscure a device user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by deleting at least a portion of acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module and anonymized data formed by aggregating at least a portion of acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module .

Referring again to e.g. as described above in some embodiments module may include module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to remove a link between a device identification portion of the acquired attribute data and an other portion of the acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by adding acquired attribute data to previously acquired property data and removing specific relational information between the one or more devices and the acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by encrypting at least a portion of acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data using a reversible data transformation algorithm to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module and anonymized data formed by replacing a portion of the acquired attribute data with a lookup table value to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data formed by replacing at least a portion of the acquired attribute data with random data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module anonymized data formed by replacing at least a portion of the acquired attribute data with false random data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module and anonymized data formed by replacing at least a portion of the acquired attribute data with data having a particular obscuring format to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module .

Referring now to illustrates an exemplary implementation of anonymized data presentation to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module . As illustrated in the anonymized data presentation to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative implementations and embodiments. For example as shown in e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data presentation to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services for one or more devices having more than a predetermined number of contacts in a device contact list facilitating module anonymized data transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module and anonymized data presentation via a visual exchange interface to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module . In some embodiments module may include anonymized data displaying to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device contact list based services for one or more devices having more than a predetermined number of contacts in a device contact list facilitating module . In some embodiments module may include anonymized data displaying to one or more entities configured to obtain a friend finding contact list based service for one or more devices having more than a predetermined number of contacts in a device contact list facilitating module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data presentation via a visual exchange interface designed for one or more service providing entities to the one or more service providing entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module and anonymized data presentation via an interactive visual exchange interface to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data offer for sale transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module anonymized data presentation in a bid auction format to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services request for particular anonymized data receiving module anonymized data suitability for fulfilling request for particular anonymized data determining module at least a portion of anonymized data transmitting in response to request for particular anonymized data module and anonymized data presentation to one or more entities that previously registered to receive anonymized data and are configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module . In some embodiments module may include anonymized data presentation to one or more entities that previously registered to receive anonymized data having a particular property and are configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module . In some embodiments module may include anonymized data presentation to one or more entities that previously registered to receive anonymized data collected from one or more devices having more than a particular number of pictures stored on the one or more devices and are configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of anonymized data request from one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services receiving module one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services that requested anonymized data selecting module e.g. which in some embodiments may include one or more of one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services that requested anonymized data selecting at least partly based on entity prior relationship module and one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services that requested anonymized data selecting at least partly based on entity prior service obtained module portion of anonymized data transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module and remainder of anonymized data transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating in response to a received indication from the one or more entities requesting the remainder of anonymized data module .

Referring now to illustrates an exemplary implementation of anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module . As illustrated in . e.g. the anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative implementations and embodiments. For example in some embodiments module may include one or more of entity obtained device based service for sorting device photographs said service at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring module and one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data receiving module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of entity obtained device based service for sorting device photographs said service at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a presence of a particular number of device photographs acquiring module and entity obtained device based service for sorting device photographs said service at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a presence of a particular number of devices equipped with a camera acquiring module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of determining whether one or more services are present by polling one or more entities configured to provide one or more device based services module and determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device features related to the one or more device based services module . In some embodiments module may include determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device portions deemed valuable to which the one or more device based services require access module . In some embodiments module may include determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device portions indicating information regarding a position of the device that is deemed valuable to which the one or more device based services require access module . In some embodiments module may include determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device portions indicating information regarding a position of the device that is deemed valuable for a purpose of targeted advertising to which the one or more device based services require access module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data receiving module received one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data selecting module one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data information regarding the service acquiring module and deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify one or more devices offering in exchange for receiving the particular one or more entity obtained device based services for which information was acquired module . In some embodiments module may include received one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data selecting at least partly based on analysis of anonymized data module . In some embodiments module may include received one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data selecting at least partly based on analysis of anonymized data indicating that web browsing history associated with a particular device may be obtained module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify the device module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify the device module and permission to offer one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify the device module . In some embodiments module may include one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to transform the anonymized data into data uniquely identifying the device module . In some embodiments module may include one or more of one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to decrypt the anonymized data into data uniquely identifying the device module and one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to substituting the anonymized data for data uniquely identifying the device module .

Referring again to e.g. in some embodiments module may include one or more of one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a type of the device acquiring module one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a condition present on the device acquiring module one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular amount of data stored on the device acquiring module and one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular environment surrounding the device acquiring module .

Following are a series of flowcharts depicting implementations. For ease of understanding the flowcharts are organized such that the initial flowcharts present implementations via an example implementation and thereafter the following flowcharts present alternate implementations and or expansions of the initial flowchart s as either sub component operations or additional component operations building on one or more earlier presented flowcharts. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a flowchart s presenting an example implementation and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent flowcharts generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various process implementations. In addition those skilled in the art will further appreciate that the style of presentation used herein also lends itself well to modular and or object oriented program design paradigms.

Further in and in the figures to follow thereafter various operations may be depicted in a box within a box manner. Such depictions may indicate that an operation in an internal box may comprise an optional example embodiment of the operational step illustrated in one or more external boxes. However it should be understood that internal box operations may be viewed as independent operations separate from any associated external boxes and may be performed in any sequence with respect to all other illustrated operations or may be performed concurrently. Still further these operations illustrated in as well as the other operations to be described herein may be performed by at least one of a machine an article of manufacture or a composition of matter.

The following examples are provided merely as illustrations of how various embodiments may be implemented. None of the following examples are intended to be limiting and all of the examples listed herein may be combined with portions of other examples listed herein to the extent such combinations are not logically inconsistent. Because of space limitations each example is not written out each time it is possible to implement that example. Therefore unless explicitly otherwise stated each example should be understood to encompass every other example listed both before and after the instant example and can be combined with any or all portions of other examples. Each example is not intended to be limited to a single claim or set of claims but is rather exemplary of how one or more embodiments may be carried out. Nothing in the following should be interpreted as limiting any claim or enumerating an exhaustive list of how one or more claimed embodiments can be carried out.

Referring now to shows operation which may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module acquiring e.g. receiving retrieving picking up creating generating intercepting reading hearing detecting and the like property data e.g. data about one or more properties e.g. whether environment dependent or environment independent including but not limited to one or more of a status characteristic snapshot feature index brand configuration attribute algorithm format mode flag setting variable data structure and the like regarding at least one property e.g. any attribute of a device or any of the hardware software firmware and the like whether static or dynamic permanent or temporary whether dependent on a user of the device or not and in an embodiment may reflect entirely on the user or one or more actions taken out by the user of one or more devices e.g. a cellular phone smart phone IP phone VOIP phone handset microphone camera e.g. video camera still camera digital camera and the like headphone earpiece screen monitor television game system receiver e.g. an audio visual receiver media player e.g. DVD player Blu ray player CD player MP3 player cassette tape player tablet device netbook computer notebook computer router wireless router bridge network equipment server desktop computer personal computer personal computer component e.g. RAM hard drive video card and the like personal navigation system vehicle navigation system motor vehicle motor vehicle stereo motor vehicle control system motor vehicle communication system e.g. OnStar appliance security system e.g. a home security system electronic safety device e.g. an electronic safe a door security system a door locking system stereo system speaker remote control e.g. a universal remote control or a device remote control radio two way radio walkie talkie ham radio a metal detector a radar detector a weather station a robot e.g. a Roomba a vacuum cleaner and the like .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or one or more users of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows generating e.g. creating obtaining instructing to create causing to create or otherwise originate or cause to be originated anonymized data e.g. data that does not uniquely identify one or more of a device and or a device of the user whether because that data is not there is unreadable e.g. encrypted is altered protected or prevented from being accessed deleted and the like or was never present or has been aggregated or changed to disguise or camouflage specificity by altering e.g. modifying changing mutating modifying deleting from adding to encrypting decrypting compressing expanding combining packaging aggregating reconstructing modulating adjusting and the like the acquired property data e.g. data about one or more properties e.g. whether environment dependent or environment independent including but not limited to one or more of a status characteristic snapshot feature index brand configuration attribute algorithm format mode flag setting variable data structure and the like to obscure e.g. to make more difficult to comprehend in this example to make it more difficult to comprehend a portion of the data that uniquely identifies the device through any operation that results in different data than what was started one or more portions of the acquired property data e.g. data about one or more properties e.g. whether environment dependent or environment independent including but not limited to one or more of a status characteristic snapshot feature index brand configuration attribute algorithm format mode flag setting variable data structure and the like that uniquely identify e.g. information that would specifically identify the device or a user of the device e.g. a MAC address an IP address whether static or dynamic a server name login information for one or more web sites social networking sites marketplaces and the like the one or more devices e.g. any of the list of devices mentioned previously and or users of the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services. For example. e.g. shows presenting e.g. facilitating one or more steps for making the one or more services aware of the anonymized data through a screen presentation or through transmission of some or all of the anonymized data or through posting information regarding the anonymized data to a place where it may be seen by one or more service providers and the like the anonymized data e.g. data that does not uniquely identify one or more of a device and or a device of the user whether because that data is not there is unreadable e.g. encrypted is altered protected or prevented from being accessed deleted and the like or was never present or has been aggregated or changed to disguise or camouflage specificity to one or more service providers e.g. one or more entities that take one or more steps in the design planning implementation review feedback carrying out transfer collecting payment for or otherwise oversee one or more services e.g. any task or any portion of any task or any combination of tasks that can be carried out by a device or by a device in communication with another device which may include human interaction or may not include human interaction and which may require one or more resources either locally to the device or remotely from the device and which may include one or more of hardware software firmware data stored in or manipulated by any component module part or portion of the device including but not limited to hardware software applications Application Programming Interfaces APIs one or more virtual machines one or more Dynamically Loaded Libraries DLLs one or more relational databases one or more GUI frameworks one or more COM structured storages or any portion of any other device that is under control of a device e.g. a cloud resource and the like configured to generate e.g. take at least one step towards the creation modification upkeep or maintenance of one or more services e.g. any task or portion of task as previously described .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on the anonymized data. For example. e.g. shows acquiring e.g. receiving retrieving picking up creating generating intercepting reading hearing detecting and the like the generated one or more services e.g. any task or any portion of any task or any combination of tasks that can be carried out by a device or by a device in communication with another device which may include human interaction or may not include human interaction and which may require one or more resources either locally to the device or remotely from the device and which may include one or more of hardware software firmware data stored in or manipulated by any component module part or portion of the device including but not limited to hardware software applications Application Programming Interfaces APIs one or more virtual machines one or more Dynamically Loaded Libraries DLLs one or more relational databases one or more GUI frameworks one or more COM structured storages or any portion of any other device that is under control of a device e.g. a cloud resource and the like said generated one or more services e.g. any task as previously defined at least partly based on the anonymized data e.g. data that does not uniquely identify one or more of a device and or a device of the user whether because that data is not there is unreadable e.g. encrypted is altered protected or prevented from being accessed deleted and the like or was never present or has been aggregated or changed to disguise or camouflage specificity .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding a number of contacts stored in a contact list of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows contact list size data describing a number of contacts stored in a contact list of a device obtaining module acquiring property data regarding a number of contacts stored in a contact list of the one or more devices e.g. one or more desktop computers equipped with Microsoft Outlook and its contact list feature set .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding a number of contacts that are stored in a contact list for which a contact has both a telephone number and an email address of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows contact list size data describing a number of contacts stored in a contact list of a device that have both an email address and a telephone number obtaining module acquiring property data regarding a number of contacts that are stored in a contact list that have a telephone number and an email address of the one or more devices e.g. a smartphone which may communicate with an entity on a contact list via telephone and or email .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting receiving property data regarding at least one property of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to one or more device attributes receiving module receiving property data e.g. data indicating a velocity regarding at least one property e.g. velocity of one or more devices e.g. personal portable navigation systems .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting receiving from the one or more devices property data regarding at least one property of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to one or more device attributes receiving from the one or more devices module receiving from the one or more devices e.g. one or more gaming systems property data e.g. data indicating how many hours a user has played first person shooter games regarding at least one property e.g. hours of use of particular games of the one or more devices e.g. game systems whether dedicated e.g. an Xbox or PlayStation or other devices used as game systems e.g. tablet devices and laptop computers .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting receiving from a social networking site used by the one or more devices property data regarding at least one property of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to one or more device attributes receiving from a social networking site module receiving from a social networking site e.g. Facebook used e.g. logged into or viewed by the one or more devices e.g. one or more smartphones and or tablet devices property data regarding at least one property e.g. a web browsing history of the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting collecting property data regarding at least one property of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to one or more device attributes collecting module collecting property data e.g. collecting upload speeds over a wireless network regarding at least one property e.g. upload speeds of the one or more devices e.g. one or more devices having a wireless radio .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting monitoring data traffic of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device data communication via network monitoring module monitoring e.g. observing watching polling receiving at particular intervals receiving at random intervals receiving upon triggering of a condition and the like data traffic e.g. data transmitted to one or more other devices via a communication network e.g. communication network of the one or more devices e.g. one or more enterprise computers connected over an enterprise network e.g. a corporate intranet .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting gathering property data regarding at least one property of the one or more devices from the monitored data traffic. For example e.g. shows attribute data related to one or more device attributes collecting through monitoring communication by the one or more devices over a communication network module gathering property data e.g. a number of pages printed on one or more corporate printers regarding at least one property e.g. data usage of the one or more devices e.g. networked computers on a corporate intranet from the monitored data traffic e.g. data transmitted over the network whether wired wirelessly both or some other form of communication .

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding at least one status of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to a status of one or more devices obtaining module acquiring property data e.g. barometric pressure regarding at least one status e.g. an environment dependent attribute e.g. something that can change depending on the device s surroundings even if a portion of the device does not change of one or more devices e.g. home weather monitoring systems that inform a user whether to take an umbrella or not before leaving for work .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding at least one environment dependent property of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to an environment dependent property of one or more devices obtaining module acquiring property data e.g. velocity data regarding at least one environment dependent property e.g. velocity of one or more devices e.g. an in vehicle portable navigation system . It is noted here that even though the in vehicle control system depending on an implementation may directly or indirectly control velocity of the motor vehicle but velocity is still considered a status rather than a characteristic because it depends on a variable that is external to the device.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring location data regarding a current location of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device location data related to a present location of one or more devices obtaining module acquiring location data regarding a current location of one or more devices e.g. one or more internet enabled video cameras .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding at least one characteristic of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to a characteristic of one or more devices obtaining module acquiring property data regarding at least one characteristic e.g. a number of megapixels in a camera of the device of one or more devices e.g. a tablet device with a camera .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding at least one environment independent property of one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device attribute data related to an environment independent property of one or more devices obtaining module acquiring property data regarding at least one environment independent property e.g. whether a device has a temperature sensor or whether a device has a USB 3.0 port of one or more devices e.g. one or more laptop computers or tablet devices .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring data regarding a size of a contact list of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device contact list data related to an amount of memory taken up by a contact list stored on one or more devices obtaining module acquiring data regarding a size of a contact list of the one or more devices e.g. one or more tablet devices running a contact list manager software e.g. Microsoft Outlook .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding a presence of one or more sensors on one or more devices. For example e.g. shows device sensor attribute data related to a presence of one or more sensors on more devices obtaining module acquiring property data regarding a presence of one or more sensors e.g. an altimeter on one or more devices e.g. a portable navigation system .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding how many devices of a set of devices meet a particular criterion. For example e.g. shows device criterion data related to number of devices that meet one or more criteria obtaining module acquiring property data regarding how many devices of a set of devices meet a particular criterion e.g. how many video game systems e.g. Xbox 360 have more than five gigabytes of free space to install a new game on .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring property data regarding how many devices of a set of devices have an image capturing sensor having a resolution of five megapixels or greater. For example e.g. shows device image capturing criterion data indicating a number of devices have an image capturing sensor having at least a resolution of five megapixels obtaining module acquiring property data regarding how many devices of a set of devices e.g. the set may be heterogeneous e.g. include devices from different manufacturers or different types of devices altogether e.g. stationary computers with web cameras and digital phones with cameras built into the base have an image capturing sensor having a resolution of five megapixels or greater.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data which includes one or more contact lists of one or more devices and one or more device identifiers for the one or more devices to obscure the device identifiers by replacing the first character of the one or more device identifiers with a character from a lookup table to obscure the device identifiers that uniquely identify the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data including one or more contact lists and one or more device identification numbers of one or more devices by substituting a particular character of the device identification number with a different character to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data which includes one or more contact lists of one or more devices and one or more device identifiers e.g. a device name given by the manufacturer and that is unique for the device for the one or more devices to obscure the device identifiers by replacing the first character of the one or more device identifiers with a character from a lookup table to obscure the device identifiers that uniquely identify the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by altering acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data e.g. data that does not uniquely identify a device and or a user of the device by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data e.g. a device s last thirty locations that uniquely identify the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the users of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by altering acquired attribute data to obscure a device user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to obscure one or more portions of the acquired property data e.g. a user s social security number that uniquely identify the users of the one or more devices e.g. a bank issued remote connection device .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to remove one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by deleting at least a portion of acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data e.g. whether the device is located in Seattle Wash. to remove one or more portions of the acquired property data e.g. a device identification number that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by aggregating the acquired property data to obscure a portion of the acquired property data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by aggregating at least a portion of acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by aggregating e.g. taking location data from twenty different devices and twenty device identifiers and packaging them together so that a specific device identifier cannot be matched to a specific one of the twenty different locations so that a device can only be identified with 1 in 20 accuracy which is not uniquely identifying the acquired property data to obscure a portion of the acquired property data e.g. a recorded decibel level at the device s location that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices.

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by removing a link between the acquired property data and a unique identification of the one or more devices that generated the acquired property data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data to remove a link between a device identification portion of the acquired attribute data and an other portion of the acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by removing a link between the acquired property data e.g. an amount of RAM installed in a laptop computer and a unique identification e.g. the serial number from a copy of Windows running on the device of the one or more devices that generated the acquired property data.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by adding the acquired property data to previously acquired property data and removing data indicating the relationship between the one or more devices and one or more specific portions of the property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by adding acquired attribute data to previously acquired property data and removing specific relational information between the one or more devices and the acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by adding the acquired property data e.g. velocity of one or more vehicle mounted personal navigation devices to previously acquired property data and removing data indicating the relationship between the one or more devices and specific portions of the property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices e.g. the data includes a set of device identifiers and a set of velocity data but not the connection between which device identifier to which velocity data e.g. which may be useful for insurance companies and or law enforcement agencies to determine where speeding is taking place .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data to encrypt one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by encrypting at least a portion of acquired attribute data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data e.g. location data to encrypt one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by applying a reversible data transformation algorithm to one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by modifying acquired attribute data using a reversible data transformation algorithm to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data e.g. an ambient light amount detected by the device by applying a reversible data transformation algorithm to one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices with a value stored in a lookup table. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by replacing a portion of the acquired attribute data with a lookup table value to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data e.g. the device name that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices with a value stored in a lookup table e.g. the data is replaced with user062462 and in the lookup table for the index value user062462 the actual device name is placed in the lookup table .

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices with one or more random values. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by replacing at least a portion of the acquired attribute data with random data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data bay altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data e.g. an IP address that uniquely identify the one or more devices e.g. one or more desktop computers connected to the Internet and or users of the one or more devices with one or more random values e.g. replacing at least a portion of the IP address with numbers generated from a random number generator .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices with one or more false random values. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by replacing at least a portion of the acquired attribute data with false random data to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices with one or more false random values e.g. values generated by an algorithm in a repeatable manner but without knowing the algorithm appear to be random .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices and or users of the one or more devices with data having a similar format as uniquely identifying data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or users. For example e.g. shows anonymized data formed by replacing at least a portion of the acquired attribute data with data having a particular obscuring format to obscure a device and or user identifying portion of the device attribute data generating module generating anonymized data by altering the acquired property data e.g. location data by replacing one or more portions of the acquired property data that uniquely identify the one or more devices e.g. a device name assigned by the user upon initial device setup and transmitted to a manufacturer of the device for registration purposes with data having similar format e.g. a device name e.g. that looks like a real name e.g. Bob s kitchen computer as uniquely identifying data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or users.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting displaying data regarding one or more devices that have more than twenty five contacts in their contact lists to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services that use one or more device contact lists. For example e.g. shows anonymized data displaying to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device contact list based services for one or more devices having more than a predetermined number of contacts in a device contact list facilitating module displaying data regarding one or more devices that have more than twenty five contacts in their contact lists to one or more service providers e.g. one or more entities whether persons corporate entities or automated service providers configured to generate one or more services e.g. a mass notification service that use one or more device contact lists.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting displaying one or more devices that have more than twenty five contacts in their contact lists to one or more service providers configured to generate a friend finding service that locates entities in the one or more device contact lists. For example e.g. shows anonymized data displaying to one or more entities configured to obtain a friend finding contact list based service for one or more devices having more than a predetermined number of contacts in a device contact list facilitating module displaying one or more devices that have more than twenty five contacts in their contact lists to one or more service providers configured to generate a friend finding service that locates entities in the one or more device contact lists.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting transmitting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services. For example e.g. shows anonymized data transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module transmitting the anonymized data to one or more service providers e.g. an outdoors company e.g. REI as a service provider provides an application that tracks people on hiking trails configured to generate one or more services e.g. a hiking assistance service .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting a visual exchange interface configured to be accessed by the one or more service providers wherein the visual exchange interface is configured to allow the one or more service providers to view a representation of the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation via a visual exchange interface to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting a visual exchange interface e.g. a front end where various services can be viewed e.g. a store an auction site a listing a database and the like configured to be accessed by the one or more service providers e.g. a ticket distribution company e.g. Ticketmaster that may provide ticket matching services wherein the visual exchange interface is configured to allow the one or more service providers to view a representation of the anonymized data e.g. an indication of what anonymized data is available either a graphical representation a description a subset or the like .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting a visual exchange interface configured to be accessed by the one or more service providers wherein the visual exchange interface comprises one or more graphical representations of the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation via a visual exchange interface designed for one or more service providing entities to the one or more service providing entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting a visual exchange interface configured to be accessed by the one or more service providers e.g. various gym and athletic training service providers that design training applications for devices wherein the visual exchange interface comprises one or more graphical representations e.g. an icon or a graph representing the anonymized data in aggregate form e.g. a pie chart indicating that 65 of devices have a particular feature of the anonymized data.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting an interactive visual exchange interface configured to be accessed by the one or more service providers wherein the visual exchange interface comprises one or more selectable graphical representations of the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation via an interactive visual exchange interface to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting an interactive visual exchange interface configured to be accessed by the one or more service providers e.g. a device manufacturer e.g. Apple provides various services to be used on their devices e.g. mapping restaurant queries and the like wherein the visual exchange interface comprises one or more selectable graphical representations e.g. icons of the anonymized data.

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting transmitting an offer to make available for sale the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services. For example e.g. shows anonymized data offer for sale transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module transmitting an offer to make available for sale the anonymized data e.g. data indicating how many devices have three or more bicycling applications already installed to one or more service providers e.g. a bicycle manufacturer trying to design a service and deliver to a likely audience configured to generate one or more services e.g. a bike tire inflation monitoring service .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting the anonymized data to an auction style interface configured to allow the one or more service providers to place one or more bids for access to the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation in a bid auction format to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting the anonymized data to an auction style interface configured to allow the one or more service providers e.g. an alcohol distribution service that wants to bid on data showing how many devices spend more than four hours a week at various bars in a city to place one or more bids for access to the anonymized data e.g. aggregated location data .

Referring again to . operation may include operation depicting receiving a request from a service provider for particular anonymized data. For example e.g. shows one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services request for particular anonymized data receiving module receiving a request from a service provider e.g. a weight loss corporation creating a calorie counting service for particular anonymized data e.g. data indicating a person s weight and body mass index BMI with the data stored on the one or more devices .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting determining whether the generated anonymized data is configured to fulfill the requested particular anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data suitability for fulfilling request for particular anonymized data determining module determining whether the generated anonymized data e.g. does the generated anonymized data which has user profiles that were entered into various sites e.g. social networking sites or dating sites is configured to fulfill e.g. has aggregated weights of users the requested particular anonymized data e.g. aggregated person s weight and BMI .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting transmitting the generated anonymized data based on the determination regarding the generated anonymized data. For example e.g. shows at least a portion of anonymized data transmitting in response to request for particular anonymized data module transmitting the generated anonymized data e.g. aggregated person s weight and BMI based on the determination regarding the generated anonymized data.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate the one or more services wherein said one or more service providers have previously registered to receive presentations of various anonymous data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation to one or more entities that previously registered to receive anonymized data and are configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers e.g. music label producers creating a service that delivers new music in a user s preferred genre to their device configured to generate the one or more services wherein said one or more service providers have previously registered to receive presentations of various anonymous data.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate the one or more services wherein said one or more service providers have previously registered to receive presentations of various anonymous data that has a property in common with the generated anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation to one or more entities that previously registered to receive anonymized data having a particular property and are configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting the anonymized data e.g. anonymized velocity and temperature data to one or more service providers e.g. a provider of a service that locates water stops for runners configured to generate the one or more services e.g. a service that finds water fountains along a route being run by a runner carrying a personal device wherein said one or more service providers have previously registered to receive presentations of various anonymous data e.g. data tracking locations that has a property in common with the generated anonymized data e.g. which is location and temperature data .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate the one or more services wherein said one or more service providers have previously registered to receive presentations of anonymous data related to a number of pictures stored on a device and the generated anonymized data is a listing of a number of pictures on at least one of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows anonymized data presentation to one or more entities that previously registered to receive anonymized data collected from one or more devices having more than a particular number of pictures stored on the one or more devices and are configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module presenting the anonymized data to one or more service providers e.g. a photo developing company that wants to develop a photo sorting service configured to generate the one or more services e.g. a digital photograph sorting service wherein said one or more service providers have previously registered to receive presentations of anonymous data related to a number of pictures stored on a device and the generated anonymized data is a listing of a number of pictures on at least one of the one or more devices.

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting receiving a request from one or more service providers to receive the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows anonymized data request from one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services receiving module receiving a request from one or more service providers e.g. broadband internet service providers that want to create an application that tracks average upload speeds to receive the anonymized data e.g. achieved upload speeds at various times 

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting selecting one or more service providers to which to present the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services that requested anonymized data selecting module selecting one or more service providers e.g. selecting from various telecom service providers to which to present the anonymized data e.g. achieved upload speeds at various times and various locations .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting selecting one or more service providers to which to present the anonymized data based on a prior relationship with the one or more service providers. For example e.g. shows selecting one or more service providers to which to present the anonymized data based on a prior relationship with one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services that requested anonymized data selecting at least partly based on entity prior relationship module selecting one or more service providers e.g. for weight loss services to which to present the anonymized data e.g. calorie tracking data manually inputted by users into a device based on a prior relationship e.g. a selected service provider already has a contract and is a well known name e.g. Weight Watchers with the one or more service providers.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting selecting one or more service providers to which to present the anonymized data based on a prior service provided by the one or more service providers. For example e.g. shows one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services that requested anonymized data selecting at least partly based on entity prior service obtained module selecting one or more service providers to which to present the anonymized data based on a prior service provided by the one or more service providers e.g. a selected service provider previously provided a service that was widely accepted by devices and gained lots of profits .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting transmitting a portion of the anonymized data to one or more service providers configured to generate one or more services. For example e.g. shows portion of anonymized data transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating module transmitting a portion of the anonymized data e.g. a sample of the data for example if the anonymized data includes anonymous velocity data for five hundred devices sending anonymous velocity data for ten devices to one or more service providers e.g. an insurance company designing an application for in vehicle control systems configured to generate one or more services e.g. an insurance company designing an application for in vehicle control systems . It is noted that the portion of the anonymized data to be transmitted may be selected randomly or may be selected by a human or may be selected by any process set of steps or algorithm.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting transmitting a remainder of the anonymized data to the one or more services upon receipt of an indication that the one or more service providers request the remainder of the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows remainder of anonymized data transmission to one or more entities configured to obtain one or more device based services facilitating in response to a received indication from the one or more entities requesting the remainder of anonymized data module transmitting a remainder of the anonymized data to the one or more services upon receipt of an indication that the one or more service providers request the remainder of the anonymized data e.g. the other four hundred and ninety five anonymized velocity readings .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring a service for sorting photographs on a device said service for sorting photographs generated at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a presence of one or more devices having more than five hundred unsorted pictures stored in memory. For example e.g. shows entity obtained device based service for sorting device photographs said service at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a presence of a particular number of device photographs acquiring module acquiring a service for sorting photographs on a device said service for sorting photographs generated at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a presence of one or more devices having more than five hundred unsorted pictures stored in memory e.g. the anonymized data may be a number of devices that have more than five hundred unsorted pictures or may simply be an indicator that the number of devices that have more than five hundred unsorted pictures is above a threshold number which may have been set by the service provider . For example in an embodiment the service provider may ask if there are more than 100 devices having more than five hundred unsorted pictures stored in memory and the anonymized data may include merely a yes or a no based on the service provider request.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring a service for sorting photographs on a device said service for sorting photographs generated at least partly based on anonymized data indicating that more than thirty five camera devices of the one or more devices were detected. For example e.g. shows entity obtained device based service for sorting device photographs said service at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a presence of a particular number of devices equipped with a camera acquiring module acquiring a service for sorting photographs on a device said service for sorting photographs generated at least partly based on anonymized data indicating that more than thirty five camera devices of the one or more devices were detected.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting receiving the generated one or more services from the one or more service providers said generated services at least partly based on the anonymous data. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data receiving module receiving the generated one or more services e.g. the generated picture sorting service from the one or more service providers said generated services at least partly based on the anonymous data e.g. the picture sorting service is designed to handle large numbers of pictures based on the anonymous data indirectly indicating that there would be a demand for that type of service .

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting polling one or more service providers to determine a presence of generated one or more services. For example e.g. shows determining whether one or more services are present by polling one or more entities configured to provide one or more device based services module polling one or more service providers to determine a presence of generated one or more services e.g. there may be multiple service providers that put out numerous services and in an embodiment rather than notifying each time the one or more service providers generate a service they are polled for the services they have generated .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers. For example e.g. shows determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities module acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services e.g. a rest stop finding service from the polled one or more service providers.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on a portion of the one or more devices to which the one or more services require access. For example e.g. shows determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device features related to the one or more device based services module acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on a portion of the one or more devices e.g. a portion of the storage medium where music is stored to which the one or more services e.g. a new music finding service require access.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on the one or more services requiring access to a portion of the one or more devices to which access is indicated as valuable. For example e.g. shows determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device portions deemed valuable to which the one or more device based services require access module acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on the one or more services requiring access to a portion e.g. a web browsing history of the one or more devices to which access is indicated as valuable e.g. an entity whether human or automated has indicated that for a specific set of devices or generally that a web browsing history is valuable information to one or more entities .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on the one or more services requiring access to a positioning sensor of the one or more devices wherein the positioning information from the positioning sensor of the one or more devices is indicated as valuable information. For example e.g. shows determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device portions indicating information regarding a position of the device that is deemed valuable to which the one or more device based services require access module acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services e.g. a soda pop vending machine locating service from the polled one or more service providers e.g. a soda pop company e.g. Coca Cola at least partly based on the one or more services requiring access to a positioning sensor e.g. the vending machine locating service needs the device s current location to show soda pop machines in the device s vicinity of the one or more devices e.g. one or more smartphones wherein the positioning information from the positioning sensor of the one or more devices is indicated as valuable information e.g. an entity not necessarily Coca Cola has indicated that the position information will be valuable .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on the one or more services requiring access to a positioning sensor of the one or more devices wherein the positioning information from the positioning sensor of the one or more devices is indicated as valuable information for use in providing targeted advertising. For example e.g. shows determined one or more services acquiring from the polled one or more entities at least partly based on one or more device portions indicating information regarding a position of the device that is deemed valuable for a purpose of targeted advertising to which the one or more device based services require access module acquiring at least one of the generated one or more services from the polled one or more service providers at least partly based on the one or more services requiring access to a positioning sensor of the one or more devices wherein the positioning information from the positioning sensor of the one or more devices is indicated as valuable information for use in providing targeted advertising.

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting receiving the generated one or more services said generated services at least partly based on the anonymized data. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data receiving module receiving e.g. receiving permission to mediate a purchase of the service from a device regardless of whether the service is acquired the generated one or more services e.g. a new music finding service said generated services at least partly based on the anonymized data e.g. a list of the songs stored on the device e.g. a Microsoft Zune HD music player .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting selecting a particular service of the generated one or more services. For example e.g. shows received one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data selecting module selecting a particular service e.g. a pickup football game scheduler that compares friends locations and schedules of the generated one or more services.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting selecting a particular service of the generated one or more services at least partly based on an analysis of data from the one or more devices that may be obtained if the one or more devices accept the particular services. For example e.g. shows received one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data selecting at least partly based on analysis of anonymized data module selecting a particular service e.g. a bicycle riding mapping application of the generated one or more services at least partly based on an analysis of data e.g. estimating how much the data might be worth which might vary depending on the usage of the data whether it s for sale for providing more targeted services or for providing unrelated advertisements and offers from the one or more devices e.g. one or more smartphones that may be obtained if the one or more devices accept the particular services e.g. the bicycle riding mapping application .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting selecting a user preference learning service that is at least partly based on a web browsing history of a device based on an analysis that web browsing history of a device may be obtained if the one or more devices accept the user preference learning service. For example e.g. shows received one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data selecting at least partly based on analysis of anonymized data indicating that web browsing history associated with a particular device may be obtained module selecting a user preference learning service that is at least partly based on a web browsing history of a device based on an analysis that web browsing history of a device may be obtained if the one or more devices accept the user preference learning service e.g. the web browsing history may be desirable to the entity making the determination for various reasons e.g. including but not limited to marketing resale of the data and analysis of a user s internet behavior for scientific research .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting receiving information regarding a particular service of the one or more generated services from a particular service provider of the one or more service providers. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data information regarding the service acquiring module receiving information e.g. a name and profile information as well as a listing of data required for the application to function properly regarding a particular service e.g. a research station weather status tracking application of the one or more generated services from a particular service provider e.g. a local university with a weather research division of the one or more service providers .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based in exchange for receiving the particular service. For example e.g. shows deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify one or more devices offering in exchange for receiving the particular one or more entity obtained device based services for which information was acquired module offering deanonymizing data e.g. data that will convert the anonymized data into or replace the anonymized data with data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or one or more users of the devices configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices e.g. a unique device ID on which the anonymized data is based e.g. at least one of the one or more devices that generated the data that resulted in the anonymized data in exchange for receiving the particular service e.g. a find new fun places service for travelers .

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based in exchange for receiving a particular service of the one or more generated services. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify the device module offering deanonymizing data configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based in exchange for receiving a particular service e.g. an optimal workout designing service of the one or more generated services.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based to a particular service provider that generated the particular service in exchange for receiving a particular service of the one or more generated services. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify the device module offering deanonymizing data e.g. data that replaces the anonymized data with data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or one or more users of the devices configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based to a particular service provider that generated the particular service in exchange for receiving a particular service e.g. an application that plans stops and sights and bathroom breaks on a road trip of the one or more generated services.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data configured to transform the anonymized data into data that uniquely identifies at least one of the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based in exchange for receiving the particular service of the one or more generated services. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to transform the anonymized data into data uniquely identifying the device module offering deanonymizing data e.g. data that will convert the anonymized data into or replace the anonymized data with data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or one or more users of the devices configured to transform the anonymized data into data that uniquely identifies at least one of the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based in exchange for receiving the particular service e.g. a common web page caching and updating service for offline and or faster reading of the one or more generated services

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data configured to decrypt at least a portion of the anonymized data revealing data that uniquely identifies at least one of the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based in exchange for receiving a particular service of the one or more generated services. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to decrypt the anonymized data into data uniquely identifying the device module offering deanonymizing data e.g. data that will convert the anonymized data into data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or one or more users of the devices configured to decrypt at least a portion of the anonymized data revealing data that uniquely identifies at least one of the one or more devices e.g. gaming systems on which the anonymized data e.g. number of hours each game of the gaming system is played in exchange for receiving a particular service e.g. a new shooting game recommending service of the one or more generated services e.g. the one or more generated services included a new shooting game recommending service a new sports game recommending service and a new strategy game recommending service and based on the anonymized data indicating how much time the user spent playing each type of game the new shooting game recommending service was selected .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data including a lookup table wherein the lookup table is configured to allow replacement of non identifying data of the anonymized data with data that uniquely identifies at least one of the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data to a particular entity that generated a particular service said deanonymization data configured to substituting the anonymized data for data uniquely identifying the device module offering deanonymizing data e.g. data that will convert the anonymized data into data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or one or more users of the devices comprising a lookup table wherein the lookup table is configured to allow replacement of non identifying data of the anonymized data e.g. character strings that were substituted for the IP addresses when the data was originally anonymized with data that uniquely identifies at least one of the one or more devices e.g. an IP address on which the anonymized data is based e.g. the device that generated the anonymized data .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting offering deanonymizing data configured to uniquely identify the one or more devices on which the anonymized data is based to a particular service provider that generated the particular service in exchange for receiving permission to offer the particular service of the one or more generated services to the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows permission to offer one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data acquiring by offering deanonymization data configured to uniquely identify the device module offering deanonymized data e.g. data that will convert the anonymized data into or replace the anonymized data with data that uniquely identifies the one or more devices and or one or more users of the devices configured to uniquely identify devices on which the anonymized data is based to a particular service provider e.g. a game company that generates gaming services that generated the particular service in exchange for receiving permission to offer the particular service of the one or more generated services to the one or more devices e.g. permission to offer the game service to the gaming system e.g. to a user of the gaming system .

Referring now to operation may include operation depicting acquiring the generated one or more services said generated services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a type of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a type of the device acquiring module acquiring the generated one or more services e.g. tracking an employee s use of their time in order to boost efficiency said generated services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a type e.g. networked corporate company owned computers laptops and tablet devices of the one or more devices.

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring the generated one or more services said generated services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular condition present of the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a condition present on the device acquiring module acquiring the generated one or more services e.g. a driving tips generating service said generated services at least partly based on anonymized data e.g. data collected from an in vehicle navigation and control system for which the vehicle VIN has been obscured indicating a particular condition present of the one or more devices e.g. the in vehicle navigation and control system .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring the generated one or more services said generated one or more services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular amount of data present on the one or more devices. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular amount of data stored on the device acquiring module acquiring the generated one or more services e.g. a new music finding service said generated one or more services at least partly based on anonymized data e.g. data that does not particularly identify the device e.g. data for a portable music player for which the user s unique account name has been deleted indicating a particular amount of data e.g. more than 5 GB of music encoded in MP3 format present on the one or more devices e.g. a portable media player .

Referring again to operation may include operation depicting acquiring the generated one or more services said generated services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular environment at which the one or more devices are present. For example e.g. shows one or more entity obtained device based services at least partly based on anonymized data indicating a particular environment surrounding the device acquiring module acquiring the generated one or more services e.g. an ice cream parlor finding service said generated services at least partly based on anonymized data e.g. data for which the device and or the user related to the data cannot be uniquely identified indicating a particular environment e.g. temperature data indicating an ambient temperature of above thirty degrees Celsius at which the one or more devices are present.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in any Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference to the extent not inconsistent herewith.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to claims containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that typically a disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms unless context dictates otherwise. For example the phrase A or B will be typically understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

This application may make reference to one or more trademarks e.g. a word letter symbol or device adopted by one manufacturer or merchant and used to identify and or distinguish his or her product from those of others. Trademark names used herein are set forth in such language that makes clear their identity that distinguishes them from common descriptive nouns that have fixed and definite meanings or in many if not all cases are accompanied by other specific identification using terms not covered by trademark. In addition trademark names used herein have meanings that are well known and defined in the literature or do not refer to products or compounds for which knowledge of one or more trade secrets is required in order to divine their meaning. All trademarks referenced in this application are the property of their respective owners and the appearance of one or more trademarks in this application does not diminish or otherwise adversely affect the validity of the one or more trademarks. All trademarks registered or unregistered that appear in this application are assumed to include a proper trademark symbol e.g. the circle R or bracketed capitalization e.g. trademark name even when such trademark symbol does not explicitly appear next to the trademark. To the extent a trademark is used in a descriptive manner to refer to a product or process that trademark should be interpreted to represent the corresponding product or process as of the date of the filing of this patent application.

Throughout this application the terms in an embodiment in one embodiment in some embodiments in several embodiments in at least one embodiment in various embodiments and the like may be used. Each of these terms and all such similar terms should be construed as in at least one embodiment and possibly but not necessarily all embodiments unless explicitly stated otherwise. Specifically unless explicitly stated otherwise the intent of phrases like these is to provide non exclusive and non limiting examples of implementations of the invention. The mere statement that one some or may embodiments include one or more things or have one or more features does not imply that all embodiments include one or more things or have one or more features but also does not imply that such embodiments must exist. It is a mere indicator of an example and should not be interpreted otherwise unless explicitly stated as such.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing specific exemplary processes and or devices and or technologies are representative of more general processes and or devices and or technologies taught elsewhere herein such as in the claims filed herewith and or elsewhere in the present application.

