---

title: Microwave induced visible luminescence
abstract: An indicator device for detecting high-power microwave radiation is provided, including an electrically-insulating substrate; an electrically-conductive portion disposed on the substrate; and an electroluminescence material disposed on the portion. The electroluminescence material can be zinc-cadmium-sulfide ((ZnCd)S) crystal doped with manganese (Mn) and aluminum (Al) as (ZnCd)S:Mn,Al, zinc sulfide (ZnS) crystal doped with manganese (Mn) as ZnS:Mn, calcium sulfide (CaS) doped with europium (Eu) as CaS:Eu, or strontium aluminate (SrAlO) doped with europium and dysprosium as (SrAlO):Eu,Dy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08841635&OS=08841635&RS=08841635
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08841635
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120626
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to conversion of incident microwave radiation to visible light. In particular the invention uses electroluminescence to receive and detect microwave radiation and in response emit photons in the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum

Exposure to high power microwave HPM radiation represents a concern for military personnel as a consequence of operational environments. Microwaves broadly including ultra high frequency UHF and extreme high frequency EHF can be defined as electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths of approximately between 1 m and 1 mm 10m which correspond to frequencies v c between 0.3 GHz 10Hz and 0.3 THz 10Hz . This can be alternatively expressed as photon energies E hv hc between 1.24 eV 10eV and 1.24 meV 10eV where h 4.136 feV s 10eV s 6.626 10J s is Planck s constant h 2 is Dirac s constant and is angular frequency. Note that units m is meters Hz is hertz cycles per second eV is electron volts J is joules s is seconds and prefixes P T G M k m n p f and a correspond respectively to peta 10 tera 10 giga 10 mega 10 kilo 10 milli 10 micro 10 nano 10 pico 10 femto 10 and atto 10 .

Humans lack natural ability to detect the presence of such radiation. By contrast human eyes have sensitivity in the visible light portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. This visible portion ranges in wavelength from 0.75 m red to 0.38 m violet which corresponds to frequencies between 400 THz and 790 THz expressible as energies between 1.7 eV and 3.3 eV. Consequently to enable visible detection of HPM radiation would entail raising received photon energy by between three 3 and six 6 orders of magnitude.

Many types of luminescence are defined by the mechanism used to excite a luminescent material to induce radiation emission. Examples of luminescence include photoluminescence photon absorption radioluminescence ionizing radiation chemiluminescence chemical reaction and electroluminescence electronic current . An artificial luminescent material or phosphor can be produced from generally powdered ceramic semiconductors with a crystalline material structure subtly altered by the introduction of dopant materials.

Photoluminescence constitutes a physical process that alters the wavelength or color of electromagnetic radiation. In the process of photoluminescence electromagnetic radiation strikes a material that absorbs the incident energy thereby elevating an electron in a ground state to a higher discretized energy shell and re releases that energy in the form electromagnetic radiation of a different wavelength as the energized electron transitions to a lower discretized energy shell . Change to a longer wavelength at lower energy is called Stokes emission or down conversion and change to a shorter wavelength at higher energy is called anti Stokes emission or up conversion.

Conventional phosphors have been designed that can down convert visible light into near infrared night vision compatible radiation or near infrared light to mid infrared thermal vision compatible radiation. Conventional phosphors have been designed that can up convert near infrared radiation into visible light or red orange color into green blue color or visible light into ultraviolet radiation in a wavelength band about 0.2 m.

To produce the up conversion effect and satisfy conservation of energy up conversion phosphors require multiple low energy long wavelength photons to produce a single higher energy shorter wavelength photon. Two photon processes are common and there are phosphors that can use three low energy photons to produce a single higher energy photon. The photonic nature of the up conversion process imposes limits on the up conversion wavelength change. The ratio of the wavelength of incident electromagnetic radiation to the wavelength of emitted electromagnetic radiation in up converting phosphors is typically between 1.5 and 3.5.

While the diversity of microwave systems has lead to a variety of novel useful technologies there remains an inability to directly relate microwave radiation parameters to optically visible responses. Further while an ability to directly relate microwave radiation parameters to optically visible responses is desirable it is further desirable for such an ability to be possible without requiring on board or remote power supply. As microwave systems have highly diverse wavelengths and typically cover macroscopic areas an optically visible response would preferably be amenable to large area coverage and to operate across different microwave radiation sub bands. Some applications of microwave systems are designed to operate at low power and other microwave systems are designed to transmit over very macroscopic distances. Optically visible response should preferably occur at conventionally unavailable low incident microwave power levels. Microwave and Radio Frequency RF systems have become an integral part of the American warfighting capability. As microwave and RF technology has advanced high power microwave HPM systems have been developed and or fielded. Significant shortfalls in HPM test and evaluation T E capability exist for conventional systems. Existing T E systems are too large and heavy too expensive and have limited instrumentation functionality.

Conventional HPM radiation detectors yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an indicator device for detecting HPM radiation. The HPM indicator includes an electrically insulating substrate an electrically conductive portion disposed on the substrate and an electroluminescence material disposed on the portion. The electroluminescence material can be zinc cadmium sulfide ZnCd S crystal doped with manganese Mn and aluminum Al as ZnCd S Mn Al zinc sulfide ZnS crystal doped with manganese Mn as ZnS Mn calcium sulfide CaS doped with europium Eu as CaS Eu or strontium aluminate SrAlO doped with europium and dysprosium as SrAlO Eu Dy.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for a high power microwave HPM detector by sensation of an electric field. Such an HPM detector can be employed as an HPM target board for testing with HPM systems. Such a board can facilitate in the design test and evaluation and operational use of HPM systems. Additionally such a detector can be deployed for military operations to detect microwave illumination such as by enemy forces for weapons targeting. Moreover such a detector can be used for high electrical field conditions such as space probes used in the inner solar system.

Naval Surface Warfare Center NSWC Dahlgren has developed a novel method of visible luminescence induced by Microwave RF illumination. The conversion of long wavelength microwave and RF radiation into short wavelength visible light has posed a significant technical challenge. The wavelength ratio of incident light to emitted light denotes a useful figure of merit to quantify the wavelength conversion capability of a luminescent material or process. Typical photonic up conversion luminescence has a maximum ratio of approximately three. NSWC Dahlgren has demonstrated a blended semiconductor metal material that emits visible light when illuminated by microwave radiation with a demonstrated ratio of approximately 187 thousand. Further this material was completely passive in operation and required no external power source.

The exemplary blended semiconductor metal material incorporates phosphors as the luminescent material. Phosphors are synthetically produced crystalline powdered semiconductors that have been modified to include a trace quantity of rare earth elements. The trace quantities of rare earth elements modify the host semiconductor s band gap structure to permit electron excitation from the valence band into higher energy states. As the excited electrons in higher energy states de excite back into their ground states these electrons cause photons to be released in the visible wavelength.

Various exemplary embodiments rely on the electroluminescence process to generate visible luminescence from microwave radiation. Electroluminescence occurs when a free electron interacts with an electroluminescent phosphor crystal. The kinetic energy of the free electron transfers to an electron in the phosphor crystal s outermost shell causing to the phosphor s outer electron jump higher in energy state. As the excited electron de excites lower to its ground energy state the electron emits a photon producing electroluminescence. Depending on the material and its quantum state energies this emitted photon has a specific energy.

Various exemplary embodiments employ an electrical conductor and an electroluminescent phosphor. The conductor acts as the source of the free electrons to excite the phosphor such as preferably gold Au silver Ag or copper Cu . The phosphor electroluminescent commercial phosphors that require the least free electron kinetic energy for luminescent excitation are grouped together as vacuum fluorescent device VFD phosphors. Zinc cadmium sulfide ZnCd S represents one primary VFD phosphor. The host crystal of ZnCd S is then p doped with trace quantities of impurities typically rare earth elements such as manganese Mn and conductors such as aluminum Al as ZnCd S Mn Al.

The rare earth dopants alter the band gap between valence and conduction electronic energy bands and the conductor dopants act to decrease the kinetic energy of free electrons required to generate luminescence. This crystal has advantages in electroluminescent for multiple reasons. In particular the ratio of zinc to cadmium in the ZnCd S crystal influences the color of the phosphor luminescence. As cadmium concentrations increase from small values the color of the phosphor emission shifts from green to red. This color shift is independent of the free electron kinetic energy required for luminescent emission.

Other phosphors that can be applied in various exemplary embodiments include zinc sulfide ZnS crystal doped with manganese Mn as ZnS Mn calcium sulfide CaS doped with europium Eu as CaS Eu strontium aluminate SrAlO doped with europium and dysprosium as SrAlO Eu Dy. The demonstrated ratio for various exemplary embodiments is approximately 178 thousand or five orders of magnitude thereby distinguishing these from conventional photonic up conversion techniques.

In the first view of a portion of an insulating substrate provides a base on which to deposit a mezzanine layer of conductive material e.g. silver or Au and superposed by an outer layer of phosphor material. These layers are etched together to produce isolated hexagonal coupon islands having a conductive component and a phosphor component that can subsequently be removed from the substrate . The conductive layer can be applied using Silva Solution from TriMedica which incorporates microscopic silver argentum metallicum suspended in water combined in an epoxy to produce an RF conductive paint with a thickness of 12.5 m.

In phosphor structures are connected to the insulator base by a layer of conductive material. The layer of conductive material is physically constrained to the being under the phosphor structures. Further each of the phosphor structures and conductive layers are physically and electrically separated from one another. In view electrons excited by the incident microwave radiation would flow in the conductive layer and each conductive layer would be responsible for exciting its own phosphor structure. Further view also shows that the distance between phosphor structures can be small relative to the dimensions of the phosphor structures.

In the second view of the insulating substrate provides a base for the conductive mezzanine layer superposed by the phosphor outer layer which is etched to form small interconnected phosphor islands or structures . In view these phosphor structures are deposited directly on to the insulator base . The thin conductive layer is disposed atop the insulator base except where the phosphor structures are deposited on top of the insulator base . In view excited electrons flow continuously through the entire conductive layer but the region of interaction between phosphor structure and the conductive layer is limited to the circumference of the phosphor structures regarding electron migration.

In the third view of the insulating substrate provides a base for the conductive mezzanine layer superposed by the phosphor outer layer which is etched to form interconnected hexagonal islands. In view the phosphor structures are connected to the insulator base by a layer of conductive material deposited evenly across the entire insulator base . The phosphor structures are deposited on top of the thin conductive layer with the distance between phosphor structures being small relative to the dimensions of the phosphor structures . In view excited electrons flow continuously throughout the base and the region of interaction between the phosphor structures and the electrons from the conductive layer can encompass the entire base of the phosphor structures .

An exemplary design employs a rectifying antenna or rectenna for wireless power transmission. Rectennas directly convert microwave energy into DC electricity and can be optimized for low power microwave RF wavelengths. Rectennas are commonly used as the receiving component of RFID systems. As the rectenna is capable of harvesting RF energy and producing DC electricity at power levels many orders of magnitude below HPM systems electroluminescence could be produced for a variety of applications. In the described embodiment rectennas have surface areas that are micromachined or micro fabricated for patterning with the phosphor conductor matrix described herein. These modified surface area produces visible light under RF illumination.

The proposed combination of rectenna and electroluminescence RF detector would differ from the earlier proposed luminescent HPM detectors in the key area of operational bandwidth. As the rectenna can be used to provide the energized free electrons required for electroluminescence the low power rectenna electroluminescent RF detector may be limited to use in the operational bandwidth of the rectenna. To generate response over a large bandwidth an array of rectennas across the predicted incident RF frequencies is proposed.

In conjunction with the cross section view presents an illustration of electric field s effect in a series of cross sectional views and . In the first view the conductor portion is disposed adjacent a partially shown phosphor portion . A free electron within the conductor is disposed at a position corresponding to the distance from the interface . No electric field is present within the first view . In the second view emitted RF propagation energy induces a transverse electric field accelerating the electron to translate in a direction towards the interface . In the third view the electron reaches the interface with energy gain of dV where d is the distance and V is the voltage of the field. Energy transfers from the electron to the phosphor causing an energy kick for outer shell electron to ascend to a higher level. In the fourth view the phosphor s outer electron cascades to a lower level emitting a photon that produces a detectable flash .

While the rectenna electroluminescent RF detector can be a passive system similar to ongoing HPM luminescent work the sensitivity of the detector can be increased by using an active powered system. Research in micro electro mechanical systems MEMS based thermoelectric cooling has produced devices with the ability to cool a 4 mm area sized detector head to 80K while consuming less than 270 mW of compressor input power 9 mW of gross refrigeration and 3 mW of net refrigeration at a total unit volume of approximately 4 cm. The 80K temperature reached by the referenced thermoelectric cooler is within the 90K to 130K transition temperature required for superconductivity from the class of copper oxide superconductors. A coolant head could then be micro machined or micro fabricated into a rectenna or an array of rectennas in the expected operational bandwidth. This would enable superconductors to be included in the phosphor conductor matrix. The incorporation of superconductors would facilitate free electrons to more easily accelerate to the kinetic energy of excitation required by the phosphor increasing detector sensitivity to less powerful RF.

To clarify material characteristics a phosphor constitutes a synthetically fabricated semiconductor material with a regular chemically defined crystalline structure considered the host material which is frequently ceramic in characteristics to which other materials are added typically in trace 

A phosphor as defined by the scientific community is an inorganic crystalline material composed of a host insulating or semiconducting material to which an impurity is introduced as a dopant. Phosphors are considered a subset of luminescent materials such as bioluminescent insects and naturally occurring minerals. The dopant added to the host crystal introduces meta stable states between the conduction and valence band thereby narrowing the band gap and better permitting light producing transitions. Consequently phosphors are materials that when excited emit non thermally induced or cold light.

Luminescence can be generated by first exciting the electrons of the dopant within the phosphor materials to a higher energy state. As the electrons descend to the ground state they emit at least one photon generating luminescence. Note that a material is not required to be a phosphor to be luminescent as any material with a band gap structure that permits photonic deexcitation will luminesce.

In scientific practice and in commercial fabrication the dopant can be introduced in the lattice either an interstitial or a replacement geometry. Interstitial dopants occupy physical locations in the crystal between existing host crystal elements. Replacement dopants are applied to a host crystal by removing a trace percentage of the existing crystal structure and filling in the voids with the dopant.

The energy transfer that occurs when an electron de excites from its luminescent meta state into its ground state is related to the spectrum of the luminescent emission photons. The meta stable to ground state transition is the energy source of the photon. The by energy of the photon must be no greater than the energy difference between the ground state and the meta stable state. Luminescent emission can be indicated by the meta stable state electronic shell position with an arrow pointing to electronic shell transitions from ground state to the excited state e.g. for europium a lanthanide element D F in which the left superscript refers to the valance shell level the letter denotes the subshell geometry and the right subscript identifies the electron position in the shell.

Luminescence can be categorized by duration prompt luminescence fluorescence and non persistent luminescence. This classification was initially designated to include phosphor emission that for human sight appears to vary instantly in response to variations in excitation source.

Persistent luminescence can also be termed afterglow luminescence glow in the dark luminescence phosphorescence or long lasting phosphorescence. In particular luminescence resulting from a direct transition of less than approximately ten milliseconds 10 ms decay time is known as phosphorescence. The greater decay time of phosphorescence is due to the existence of intermediate meta stable states. Recent conventional efforts have tended to design and apply dopants for extending the decay time and thereby improve the stabilities of the phosphor s meta stable luminescent centers.

There exist permitted electronic states with variable durations of stability which affect the duration of time that an excited electron can exist in the state. The physical location of a meta stable state in a host crystal can be described as a luminescent center. The length of duration of time that the electron can remain in the meta stable state has been frequently observed to increase or decrease with the amount of time required for the luminescent centers in the phosphor to be filled to high capacity. The amount of time required for the number of luminescent centers in a phosphor crystal to fill to high capacity corresponds to the rise time of the phosphor. The rise time of a phosphor has observed to decrease with increases in the rate of electron excitation from low energy electrons e.g. ground state electrons to energized electrons occupying the meta stable states at the luminescent centers.

The rate of electron excitation is defined by the coupling of the excitation source energy into the meta stable state of the phosphor crystal s luminescent center where it energizes available ground state electrons into the meta stable states and thus rise time and maximum achievable brightness for a given excitation source is approximately equal to the rate of excitation source energy coupling into the ground state electrons of the phosphor.

The brightness of the phosphor is equivalent to the instantaneously observable rate of photonic emission by the phosphor. The brightness varies in time decaying to a percentage of its initial value that is commonly expressed as the decay time of the phosphor. The decay time has also been observed to and has been observed to be approximately directly proportional to the brightness of the phosphor. The phosphor will increase in the brightness of its luminescent emission from a minimum of zero 0 emitted photons to a maximum number of photons emitted which is the maximum observable brightness of the phosphor.

For a given phosphor with a specific valance band conduction band and dopant created enhanced or other wise modified meta stable state that exists between the valance and conduction bands of the host crystal there will be an optimum excitation mechanism with an optimum excitation duration for a maximum observable phosphor brightness which is equivalent to a maximum rate of release of observable photons from the phosphor crystal.

The meta stable state and luminescent duration The valence and conduction band states of the host crystal are very stable while the meta stable states created by the addition of dopants are less stable. The measure of electronic stability of a state is the amount of time that an electron can remain in the state. The meta stable state represents a shell level that the electron must be excited into. As such there must be a mechanism to transfer the electron into the meta stable state.

The valence and conduction band states of the host crystal are very stable while the meta stable states created by the addition of dopants are less stable. The measure of electronic stability of a state is the amount of time that an electron can remain in that state. The most stable states that have been produced in a synthetic phosphor are able to have electrons remain excited in the phosphor for approximately one megasecond 1 Ms nearly 12 days while the least stable electronic states that have been produced in a synthetic phosphor are able to have electrons remain excited in the phosphor for approximately nanoseconds. The most direct method to determine the stability duration of a phosphor involves energizing the phosphor with an excitation source that is standardized and calibrated in terms of power brightness time and other characteristics dependant on luminescent mechanism. The phosphor is then excited by the standardized calibrated source for one exposure.

The time duration of the exposure is determined by the amount of time required to bring the phosphor to a certain percentage of filled meta stable luminescent states. However there may be intermediate temporary states that an excited electron must pass through to arrive at the meta stable luminescent state from its ground state and also that there may be multiple ground states that have possible paths from the ground state to the meta stable luminescent state including electronic states in the valence band in the conduction band and in the band gap. This has important implications for luminescence modeling.

Emission spectrum As phosphors luminesce the photons that they emit can be narrow band broad band or broad and narrow band in frequency. In narrow band frequency photonic emission the emitted photons are of very similar frequencies and thus energies and a plot of frequency versus number of emissions has sharp discrete peaks. In broad band emission the emitted photons have wide range of possible frequencies energies and a plot frequency versus number of emissions denotes a low wide curve.

Luminescence modeling remains a challenging effort. If the method of luminescence is from a single ground state directly into a single meta stable state then the modeling effort is usually very straightforward. However if multiple ground states exist or if there exist intermediate states between the ground state and meta stable luminescent state then the modeling effort is more complicated.

Electroluminescence has several definitions including luminescence caused by insert citations regarding microwave induced electroluminescence generated by unbound i.e. free electrons striking the phosphor crystal. When a free electron physically strikes a phosphor crystal if absorbed rather than scattered the electron can transfer its kinetic energy to the phosphor crystal. That energy can couple to and energize phosphor crystal electrons transitioning them into an excited state. When the excited phosphor crystal electrons relax from their meta stable excited state back to their ground de energized state they can release photons. Such excitation involves response to fluctuations in an electric field that results from HPM radiation.

Applications of electroluminescence all must support a mechanism for fast free electrons with associated high kinetic energies to strike or become incident upon the electroluminescent phosphor crystal. The minimum electroluminescent energy is the minimum kinetic energy that an electron must have to excite an electroluminescent phosphor crystal electron into its meta stable luminescent state. In typical pre existing commercial applications of electroluminescence current is provided from an external source and passed through the phosphor.

In an electroluminescence device ELD the top electrode and bottom electrodes are metals that release phosphors when a differential charge or electric potential is applied release electrons. In an alternating current AC ELD the electric potential varies in direction across the device while in a direct current DC ELD one material remains the cathode or electron emitter and the other is the anode. Although convention typically shows movement of positive charge away from the anode towards the phosphor cathode the only physical particles in motion are electrons from cathode to anode.

A microwave beam generator operating at a fixed frequency equivalently can be described as a flow of microwave wavelength photons that vary in power. Variation in microwave beam power represents the rate of change of energy. If a flow of microwave photons passes through a fixed given area the power of the microwave beam equals the number of photons that pass through the fixed given area in a specified amount of time. The number of photons that pass through the fixed given area in a specified amount of time can then be considered the photon flux which obeys conventional physical principles of area density.

Conductors by definition are sources of free electrons and exist in many commercially available embodiments. Electroluminescent phosphors in commercial form typically exist as powders with crystal dimensions on the order of micrometers to tenths of millimeters. If conductors can be integrated with electroluminescent phosphors in a manner that permits incident microwave radiation to accelerate conductor free electrons to a speed that provide kinetic energies to the free electrons that are greater than the previously defined minimum electroluminescent energy then phosphor crystal luminescent centers within physical proximity of the energized free electrons can emit visible light.

From June 2011 to November 2011 tests have been conducted Maginot Open Area Test Site MOATS at NSWC Dahlgren on a variety of prototype panels designed to emit visible light when illuminated by an HPM source. These panels have been found to emit characteristic visible luminescence when illuminated by the FNC CIED SERVAL HPM source.

Validation of Hypothesized Solution can be described. To validate this hypothesis a powdered phosphor described in open source literature as sensitive to electron impact excitation was applied to a thinly spread layer of commercially available conductive paint which was itself on an insulating substrate forming a macroscopic two dimensional phosphor conductor area. The insulating substrate with the applied two dimensional phosphor conductor area was exposed to a microwave source.

When exposed to incident microwave illumination the phosphor conductor area would produce light with wavelength characteristic of the phosphor s electroluminescent emission. Further the phosphor conductor area emitted light was found to have brightness dependent upon incident microwave flux. The ratio of wavelength of incident microwave radiation to wavelength of emitted visible light was observationally determined to be approximately 187 thousand. The phosphor conductor was therefore determined to be an electroluminescent up conversion material.

Photoluminescent up conversion phosphors depend on an individual photon s energy to excite phosphor electrons into luminescent sites whereas electroluminescent up conversion materials depend on a microwave beam s photonic flux or equivalently electric field flux to excite phosphor electrons into luminescent sites. Electroluminescent up conversion materials can fabricated in geometries that resemble powdered up conversion photoluminescent phosphors. One can fabricate geometries of an electroluminescent phosphor or conductor that do not physically resemble but functionally appear to operate as powdered up conversion photoluminescent phosphors. For an electroluminescent phosphor conductor functionally appearing to operate as a powdered up conversion photoluminescent phosphor the electroluminescent phosphor must produce visible luminescence characteristic of the phosphor.

As is currently understood the primary compositional difference between the up conversion photoluminescent phosphor and the electroluminescent up conversion material is the addition of conductors that are free electron laden within the electroluminescent up conversion material.

This compositional difference implies that the electroluminescent up conversion material can be expected to operate i.e. generate electroluminescence over what is currently assumed to be the majority if not all of the microwave spectrum. This provides electroluminescent up conversion materials a wavelength ratio of emitted light to incident light already observed to be at least 62 thousand times greater than that possible with up conversion photoluminescent phosphors. Additionally the primary dependence of luminescent brightness for an up conversion photoluminescent powder involves the frequency of the incident light while the primary dependence of luminescent brightness for an electroluminescent up conversion material is the power of the incident light.

 i Luminescent brightness was found to be dependent upon incident HPM power level. As the power level was increased the brightness of the emission was found to increase.

 ii Luminescent brightness was also found to be dependent on HPM angle of incidence. Maximum brightness occurred when the HPM was incident normal to the luminescent HPM board and minimal no brightness occurred when the HPM was incident parallel to the luminescent HPM board.

 iii The minimum electric field required for luminescent emission for the versions tested to date was experimentally determined to by 100 kV m. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that this is an extremely large electric field and that proposed further research into the HPM target board should be expected to decrease the required electric field strength.

 iv The HPM target board was tested with HPM pulse durations of 1 s to 4 s. Brightness was found to increase with pulse duration. It is important to note that the literature value of the activation response time of the ZnCd S phosphor is 100 s to 200 s. Pulse durations of 1 s may be close to the lower limit of the ZnCd S phosphor and a different phosphor with shorter activation response time may be necessary for luminescent emission with pulse durations shorter than 1 s.

 v The luminescent emission of the HPM target boards was in all cases daytime visible within a range of tens of meters.

 vi The design of the second prototype HPM target board is compatible with large area airbrush application. By mixing a high sensitivity phosphor of one color and a lower sensitivity phosphor of a second color together on one HPM target board it would be possible to distinguish power levels in the beam by the pattern and color of emission on the HPM target board.

The ultimate commercial potential of various exemplary embodiments will depend in large part upon the final minimum electric field required for luminescent emission. For the current second series prototype the commercial potential is as a High Power Microwave target board for use in the directed energy ranges laboratories and agencies of or available to the Department of Defense. The specific strategic goal of this topic is to increase the ability to detect and image HPM beams in real time. With infrared lasers operators can position an up converting phosphor impregnated card or board in the path of the laser beam which glows to indicate the position of the beam. These cards are considered an essential part of infrared laser operations and a luminescent HPM beam detector can serve in a similar capacity for HPM system testing.

As various ELD embodiments are engineered to become more sensitive to smaller electric fields such ELDs could ultimately be used to detect and image a wide range of radio frequency electromagnetic emissions. The advantages and new features of the disclosed embodiments include 

 i Affordability Simplicity Radio frequency epoxy and other conductive sprayable solutions can be blended with powdered phosphor to create large area HPM beam detectors for the cost of the conductive solutions and phosphor powder both being available as commercial off the shelf COTS products.

 ii Passive nature of operation. The demonstrated first and second series prototype HPM beam detectors require no external power for operation.

 iii Safety. The target board increases safety by providing a visual indicator of high electric fields and both the phosphor and conductive solutions used in this work pose little to no chemical biological or environmental hazards.

 iv Broad band response. Typical photoluminescent up conversion and down conversion are highly dependent upon the wavelength of the incident electromagnetic radiation. As exemplary embodiments depend on the magnitude of the electric field of the incident HPM beam for excitation the up conversion process can be used across a very broad range of microwave wavelength.

Alternatives to visible luminescence in observing microwave radiation is typically accomplished by electric field meters. These devices measure the maximum electric field of incident HPM radiation when used with oscilloscopes. In standard usage a computer model can be generated of expected microwave beam pattern and field strength which is then verified against measurements taken by electric field meters.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

