---

title: System and method for enforcing a recording preference
abstract: A system and method are provided for allowing a user to consent to call recording. A user is prompted to make a recording preference. The recording preference is stored in a table indexed by UCID (universal call ID) or as part of a UUI (user-to-user information) field of the call. A recording module and/or a compliance manager, both associated with a call center, are configured to record or not record the call based on the recording preference. The recording preference can be enforced on incoming and outgoing calls to and from the call center. Advantageously, the user's recording preference is enforced throughout the call, regardless of how the call is routed/transferred within the call center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08644457&OS=08644457&RS=08644457
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08644457
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121001
---
Many call centers record customer calls for quality and training purposes. However recording customer calls may in some cases infringe on the customer s privacy. Certain call centers have even been subjected to lawsuits for recording customer calls alleging violations of privacy and wire tapping regulations. In conventional call centers there is typically no way for the customer to deny consent to record the call.

Another problem often encountered by call center customers is that when a call is transferred from one agent to the next the customer oftentimes needs to provide the same information to the next agent. This process is inefficient and can be become annoying to the caller when the caller must repeatedly provide the same information to multiple agents.

Thus such conventional systems often result in unsatisfactory user experiences making them unreliable and undesirable. Accordingly there remains a need in the art for a secure and efficient way to enforce customer recording preferences and eliminate the need to provide the same information multiple times during a call.

One embodiment provides a method for imposing a recording preference of a telephony call placed to a call center. The method includes prompting a user as to consent to recording the telephony call receiving a preference response to the prompt transmitting the preference response to a table indexed by UCID universal call ID and storing the preference response in the table routing the telephony call to a first agent of the call center via a PBX private branch exchange determining whether to record the call with the first agent based on the preference response stored in the table routing the telephony call from the first agent to a second agent via the PBX and determining whether to record the call with the second agent based on the preference response stored in the table.

Another embodiment provides a method for imposing a recording preference of a telephony call placed to a call center. The method includes receiving a call from a user at the call center with includes a PBX private branch exchange prompting the user for instructions regarding recording the call by the call center receiving the instructions from the user storing information into a UUI user to user information field associated with the call indicating the user s preference regarding the recording of the call and routing the call via the PBX while enforcing the user s preference indicated by the stored information by communicating the preference to each destination of the routing.

Another embodiment provides a system for imposing a recording preference. The system includes user equipment for initiating a call to a call center an IVR interactive voice response system at the call center configured to prompt the user equipment for a recording preference regarding recording of the call and receive the recording preference from the user equipment a switching network at the call center for routing the call a compliance manager configured to enforce the recording preference throughout the call regardless of how the call is routed and a recording vendor in communication with the compliance manager to record the call based on the recording preference.

Another embodiment provides a method for imposing a recording preference of a telephony call placed from a call center to a customer i.e. outbound call . The method includes establishing a three way telephony call between an agent of the call center a user and an IVR interactive voice response system prompting the user as to consent to recording the telephony call receiving a preference response to the prompt transmitting the preference response to a table indexed by UCID universal call ID and storing the preference response in the table dropping the IVR system from the three way telephony call and determining whether to record the call with the agent based on the preference response stored in the table.

Another embodiment provides a method for imposing a recording preference of a telephony call placed from a call center. The method includes establishing a three way telephony call between an agent of the call center a user and an IVR interactive voice response system prompting the user for instructions regarding recording the call by the call center receiving the instructions from the user storing information into a UUI user to user information field associated with the call indicating the user s preference regarding the recording of the call dropping the IVR system from the three way telephony call and enforcing the user s preference indicated by the stored information.

Another embodiment provides a system for imposing a recording preference. The system includes an agent device configured to place an outgoing call from an agent of a call center to a user wherein the agent device includes a CTI computer telephone integration system configured to present a recording preference of the user to the agent via an agent interface user equipment for receiving the call placed by the agent device a compliance manager configured to enforce the recording preference and a recording vendor in communication with the compliance manager to record the call based on the recording preference and an agent input received from the agent device to start or stop recording.

Some embodiments of the disclosure are directed to a system and method for allowing a user to consent to call recording when calling a customer service call center. When a user calls the call center an IVR interactive voice response system prompts the user to provide a recording preference as to whether the user would like to consent to the call being recorded.

In a first embodiment the IVR transmits the user s response to a compliance manager that records the user s response in a table indexed by UCID universal call ID . The compliance manager is a software module that resides at the call center. In one embodiment the compliance manager is a stand alone application that can interface with a PBX private branch exchange via an API application programming interface of the PBX. In another embodiment the compliance manager is incorporated into a PBX private branch exchange also within the call center. In another embodiment the compliance manager is incorporated into software executing on a computing device operated by a customer service agent at the call center. In yet another embodiment the software executing on the computing device operated by the customer service agent at the call center controls a stand alone compliance manager application.

The UCID is a unique identifier that allows a call to be identified as it travels between switches or adjuncts in a private network until the call is terminated. A recording vendor module is configured to record the calls. In one embodiment the recording module is provided by a third party software vendor and is incorporated into the software operated by the call center. In some embodiment the recording module inquires with the compliance manager as to whether recording is allowed. The compliance manager then performs a look up in the table by UCID to determine whether the call should be recorded and responds to the recording module. Also in some embodiments the compliance manager periodically checks the calls that are being recorded by the recording module to ensure that only the calls with a UCID corresponding to a user that consented to recording are being recorded.

In a second embodiment after the IVR receives the user s recording preference in response to the prompt the IVR places an indicator corresponding to the user s response in the UUI user to user information associated with the call. The UUI comprises metadata associated with the call and allows specific information pertaining to the call to pass from one agent to another as the call is transferred within the network. The recording module may check the UUI field of the call before recording the call. In some embodiments the compliance manager also periodically checks the calls that are being recorded by the recording vendor to ensure that only the calls with a UUI filed corresponding to a user that consented to recording are being recorded.

In further embodiments an agent can place an outgoing call to a user. An IVR system can be conferenced in to the call i.e. a three way call between the agent the user and the IVR system . The IVR system prompts the user as to whether the user would like to consent to recording. When the agent places an outgoing call to the user the user s recording preference can be identified via the UCID as described above or via the UUI field as also described above. Once the IVR system takes the appropriate action in response to the user s recording preference the IVR system then drops out of the three way call and the call continues between the agent and customer. The call is then recorded if the user has consented to recording.

In one embodiment if the user does not provide a response to the prompt then the call is automatically not recorded by default. In another embodiment if the user does not provide a response to the prompt then the call is automatically recorded by default.

Turning to the drawings and referring to a communication environment is presented as an example environment for the setting a recording preference and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other communication environments. In the communication environment includes a customer device a phone network a PBX a customer service call center and a recording vendor .

Examples of customer device include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including mobile phones with advance computing capabilities or smartphones conference call equipment laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players e book readers Internet enabled televisions or Internet enabled appliances among others.

In the embodiment illustrated by the customer device communicates with the customer service call center via phone network . The phone network may be any type of network for voice communication including a cellular phone network a POTS Plain Old Telephone Service network a conference call network among others. In some embodiments the phone network supports video in addition to audio.

In some embodiments the customer device of includes one or more installed applications a communications client output devices e.g. a display and input devices e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen video recording device audio recording device GPS global positioning module photo capture device etc. . In some embodiments a customer device may act as both an output device and an input device. Examples of installed applications are a web browser application or a smartphone application or app . Applications provide the customer device with a variety of functionalities. Examples include social media functionality web browsing capabilities calendars contact information games document processing photo editing document sharing among others. Applications employ the output devices to display information at a graphical user interface GUI .

The PBX is a telephone exchange that that serves a particular business or office. PBX makes connections among the internal telephones of a private organization e.g. a customer service call center and also connects the internal telephones to the phone network e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN .

The customer service call center is coupled to the PBX and includes a plurality of agents . The call center is typically a centralized or virtualized office used for the purpose of receiving and transmitting a large volume of requests by telephone. In some embodiments the agents may be trained to handle particular issues. When a call reaches an agent that is not qualified to handle the call because the agent is not trained to support the issue the call is typically transferred to another agent qualified to support the issue.

A recording module is configured to record the calls placed to the call center . In one embodiment the recording module is provided by a third party software vendor and is sold to the call center . The call center incorporates the recording module into the software of the call center . As described in greater detail herein the recording module and the call center are configured to enforce the customer s call recording preferences.

In one embodiment the IVR the PBX the compliance manager the recording vendor the agents the agent devices and the storage device are collectively considered to be the call center. The customer places a call to a phone number such as a phone number associated with the call center. The call is initially routed to an IVR . An IVR is a system that allows a computer to interact with humans through the use of voice and DTMF dual tone multi frequency tones input via a keypad. The IVR allows customers to interact with the call center s system via a telephone keypad or by speech recognition. IVR prompts the user with prerecorded or dynamically generated audio to further direct users on how to proceed. An IVR is typically used to control functions where the interface can be broken down into a series of stages.

In some instances the customer is able to achieve the desired result using only the IVR and the predefined prompts. In other instances the call needs to be routed to an agent who further assists the customer . The agent can be a member of the call center. Each agent operates an agent device such as a computer having installed thereon a computer telephone integration CTI application . CTI describes any technology that allows interactions on a telephone and a computer to be integrated or coordinated. The term CTI is predominantly used to describe desktop based interaction for helping users be more efficient although the term can also refer to server based functionality such as automatic call routing. In one embodiment the CTI embodies both the agent device and the compliance manager and provides an interface to PBX .

As described above the call sometimes needs to be transferred between two agents . Transferring the call can be achieved via the PBX .

Recording module is configured to record calls and to store the recorded calls in a storage device . Storage device is configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage device includes non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard disks optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. In one embodiment the recording vendor receives audio data from the PBX and also receives recording compliance information and preference data from the compliance manager .

A compliance manager is configured to enforce the call recording preference of the customer . The compliance manager is a software module that resides at the call center. In one embodiment the compliance manager is incorporated into PBX . In another embodiment the compliance manager is incorporated into software executing on the agent device operated by the customer service agent .

As described herein some embodiments of the disclosure allow the customer to consent to or deny consent to having the call recorded. The customer s recording preference is configured to be enforced throughout the call even after the call has been transferred to a different agent. To implement the recording preference feature the IVR prompts the customer with a recorded message as to whether the customer would like to consent to recording.

In a first embodiment the IVR transmits the customer s response to the compliance manager that stores the user s response in a table indexed by UCID universal call ID . The UCID is a unique identifier for the call that allows a call to be identified as the call travels between switches or adjuncts in a private network until the call is terminated. In one embodiment before the recording module begins to record a call the recording module inquires with the compliance manager as to whether recording is allowed. The compliance manager then performs a look up in the table by UCID to determine whether the call should be recorded and responds to the recording module . Also in some embodiments the compliance manager periodically checks the calls that are being recorded by the recording module to ensure that only the calls with a UCID corresponding to consent to record the call are being recorded.

In a second embodiment after the IVR receives the user s recording preference in response to the prompt the IVR places an indicator corresponding to the user s response in the UUI user to user information associated with the call. The UUI comprises metadata associated with the call and allows specific information pertaining to the call to pass from one agent to another agent as the call is transferred within the call center. The recording module may check the UUI field of the call before recording the call. In some embodiments the compliance manager periodically checks the calls that are being recorded by the recording vendor to ensure that only the calls with a UUI filed corresponding to consent to record the call are being recorded.

In further embodiments an agent can place an outgoing call to a customer . IVR can be conferenced in to the call i.e. a three way call between the agent the customer and IVR . IVR prompts the customer as to whether the customer would like to consent to recording. The user s recording preference is identified via the UCID as described above or via the UUI field as also described above. Once the IVR takes the appropriate action in response to the user s recording preference the IVR drops out of the three way call and the call continues between the agent and customer . The call is then recorded if the customer has consented to recording. In one embodiment initiating the three way call is done automatically when a call is placed by the agent . In another embodiment the three way call is manually initiated by the agent once the agent initiates call recording.

In one embodiment a graphical user interface GUI on the agent device allows the agent to view an indicator that corresponds to the customer s recording preference. For example the GUI may indicate that the customer has consented to recording denied consent to recording or has not yet made a selection. If the customer has not made a selection the GUI provides a mechanism for a prompt to be generated by the IVR to ask for the user s preference. Alternatively the agent may verbally ask the customer of the customer s recording preference before assisting the customer .

Referring now to one particular example of computing device configured to enforce a customer s recording preference is illustrated. Many other embodiments of the computing device may also be used. According to various embodiments the computing device may be the agent device operated by agent and or the computing device that executes the compliance manager .

In the illustrated embodiment of the computing device includes one or more processor s memory a network interface one or more storage devices a power source output device s and input device s . The computing device also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client. Each of components and is interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications in any operative manner.

As illustrated processor s are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processor s execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within computing device during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the computing device is turned OFF. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory maintains program instructions for execution by the processor s .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard disks optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The computing device uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such a data network and or phone network. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include wireless network interface Bluetooth G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB Universal Serial Bus . In some embodiments the computing device uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The computing device includes one or more input devices . Input devices are configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio video or other sensing feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system camera a video recorder a microphone a GPS module or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user or sensing the environment. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in computing device . Output devices are configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output devices may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user. In some embodiments a device may act as both an input device and an output device.

The computing device includes one or more power sources to provide power to the computing device . Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The computing device includes an operating system . The operating system controls operations of the components of the computing device . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source .

As also illustrated in the computing device includes communications client . Communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the computing device . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the computing device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. In some embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the computing device .

At stage the compliance manager associates the UCID of the call with the user s recording preference in a table. is an example of a table for recording the user s recording preference with a UCID of the call according to one embodiment. As shown one column in the table lists the UCID of calls presently being handled by the call center. A second column indicates the corresponding user recording preference such as Do not record or Record. In some cases the user may not have made a response to consent or deny consent to recording. In such cases the user s recording preference may be listed as Not selected. Additionally in some embodiments the user s recording preference is recorded as a single bit in the table with 1 corresponding to Record 0 corresponding to Do not record and null corresponding to Not selected. 

Referring back to at stage the IVR routes the call to a PBX and at stage the call eventually reaches an agent. From stage two different embodiments of the disclosure are described. One embodiment is labeled in as embodiment A i.e. EMB. A and the other is labeled in as embodiment B i.e. EMB. B . From stage either one of embodiments A or B can be performed.

Assuming that embodiment A is performed the method proceeds to stage where the recording vendor starts recording the call. In this embodiment the recording vendor does not perform any type of check to determine whether the call should be recorded or not. At stage the compliance manager checks the table to determine whether the user consented to the recording. At stage if compliance manager determines that the UCID of the call is associated with a table entry indicating that the user has consented to recording then the method proceeds to stage where the compliance manager waits for a predetermined amount of time. For example the compliance manager may wait for 1 minute. Then the method returns to stage described above. In this manner the compliance manager is periodically checking the calls being recorded by the recoding vendor to ensure that only those calls for which the user has consented to recording are being recorded. The recording vendor itself does perform any type of checking for recording preference.

Referring back to stage if compliance manager determines that the UCID of the call is associated with a table entry indicating that the user has denied consent to recording then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the compliance manager instructs the recording vendor to stop recording the call and to purge the recorded data. At stage the recording vendor stops recording and purges the recorded data.

At stage the compliance manager determines whether the call has been transferred to another agent. The determination at stage may be performed by comparing an agent identifier associated with the agent assisting the customer at a particular point in time storing the agent identifier and then comparing the agent identifier associated with the agent assisting the customer at a later point it time with the previously stored agent identifier.

If the compliance manager determines that the call has not been transferred to another agent then the method proceeds to stage where the compliance manager waits for a predetermined amount of time. For example the compliance manager may wait for 1 minute. Then the method returns to stage where the compliance manager again checks to determine whether the call has been transferred.

If at stage the compliance manager determines that the call has been transferred to another agent then the method returns to stage described above.

In embodiment A of i.e. stages the recording vendor starts recording the call each time that the call is transferred to another agent. The compliance manager however is continuously checking the calls being recorded by the recording vendor to ensure that only those calls for which the customer has consented to recording remain being recorded. If the compliance manager determines that the call is being recorded but the user has denied consent then the compliance manager instructs the recording vendor to stop recording and purge any recorded data.

Referring back to stage embodiment B is now described. From stage the method proceeds to stage where the recording vendor asks the compliance manager if it is OK to start recording before initializing recording of the call. This stage is different from stage i.e. from embodiment A since now the recording vendor by way of inquiry to the compliance manager is performing the recording preference check.

At stage the compliance manager checks the table in response to the inquiry from the recording vendor to determine whether the user has consented to the recording.

If at stage the compliance manager determines that the user denied consent to recording i.e. by checking the UCID in the table then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the compliance manager instructs the recording vendor to not record the call. At stage the recording vendor does not record the call.

If at stage the compliance manager determines that the user has not denied consent or has specifically consented to recording then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the compliance manager instructs the recording vendor that it is OK to record the call. At stage the recording vendor records the call. In other embodiments the compliance manager may determine that if the user has not made a selection as to whether to give consent or deny consent to recording then by default the call is not recorded.

From stages and the method proceeds to stage . At stage the compliance manager determines whether the call has been transferred to another agent. If the compliance manager determines that the call has not been transferred to another agent then the method proceeds to stage where the compliance manager waits for a predetermined amount of time. For example the compliance manager may wait for 1 minute. Then the method returns to stage where the compliance manager again checks to determine whether the call has been transferred.

If at stage the compliance manager determines that the call has been transferred to another agent then the method returns to stage described above.

In embodiment B of i.e. stages the recording vendor does not start recording the call until the recording vendor has inquired with the compliance manager as to whether it is OK to record the call based on the user s preference. In some embodiments not shown the compliance manager may also periodically check the calls being recorded by the recording vendor in embodiment B as an added security measure to further ensure compliance with the user s recording preference.

Referring back to at stage the IVR routes the call to the PBX. At stage the call reaches an agent. From stage two different embodiments of the disclosure are described. One embodiment is labeled in as embodiment C i.e. EMB. C and the other is labeled in as embodiment D i.e. EMB. D . From stage either one of embodiments C or D can be performed.

Assuming that embodiment C is performed at stage the recording vendor starts recording the call. In this embodiment the recording vendor does not perform any type of check to determine whether the call should be recorded or not. At stage the compliance manager checks the UUI field of the call to determine whether the user consented to the recording. At stage if compliance manager determines that the UUI of the call indicates that the user has consented to recording then the method proceeds to stage where the compliance manager waits for a predetermined amount of time. For example the compliance manager may wait for 1 minute. Then the method returns to stage described above. In this manner the compliance manager is periodically checking the calls being recorded by the recoding vendor to ensure that only those calls for which the user has consented to recording are being recorded. The recording vendor itself does perform any type of checking for recording preference.

Referring back to stage if compliance manager determines that the UUI of the call indicates that the user has denied consent to recording then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the compliance manager instructs the recording vendor to stop recording the call and purge the recorded data. At stage the recording manager stops recording and purges the recorded data.

At stage the compliance manager determines whether the call has been transferred to another agent. If the compliance manager determines that the call has not been transferred to another agent then the method proceeds to stage where the compliance manager waits for a predetermined amount of time. For example the compliance manager may wait for 1 minute. Then the method returns to stage described above where the compliance manager again checks to determine whether the call has been transferred.

If at stage the compliance manager determines that the call has been transferred to another agent then the method returns to stage described above.

According to embodiment C in i.e. stages the recording vendor starts recording the call each time that the call is transferred to another agent. The compliance manager however is continuously checking the calls being recorded by the recording vendor to ensure that only those calls for which the customer has consented to recording remain being recorded. If the compliance manager determines that the call is being recorded but the user has denied consent then the compliance manager instructs the recording vendor to stop recording and purge any recorded data. In some embodiments embodiment C in is similar to embodiment A in with the difference being that in embodiment C the UUI field is checked for the recording preference whereas in embodiment A the UCID is checked in the table for recording preference.

Referring back to stage embodiment D is now described. From stage the method proceeds to stage where the recording vendor checks the UUI field of the call to determine whether the user consented to recording. If at stage the recording vendor determines that the user denied consent to recording i.e. by checking the UUI field of the call then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the recording vendor does not record the call.

If at stage the recording vendor determines that the user has not denied consent or specifically consented to recording then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the recording vendor records the call. In other embodiments the compliance manager may determine that if the user has not made a selection as to whether to give consent or deny consent to recording then by default the call is not recorded.

From stages and the method proceeds to stage . At stage the compliance manager determines whether the call has been transferred to another agent. If the compliance manager determines that the call has not been transferred to another agent then the method proceeds to stage where the compliance manager waits for a predetermined amount of time. For example the compliance manager may wait for 1 minute. Then the method returns to stage where the compliance manager again checks to determine whether the call has been transferred.

If at stage the compliance manager determines that the call has been transferred to another agent then the method returns to stage described above.

According to embodiment D in i.e. stages the recording vendor itself checks the UUI field of the call to determine whether it is OK to record the call based on the user s preference. In some embodiments not shown the compliance manager may also periodically check the calls being recorded by the recording vendor in embodiment D as an added security measure to further ensure compliance with the user s recording preference.

At stage the IVR prompts asks the user to consent to the recording. From stage several different embodiments of the disclosure are described. One set of embodiments is labeled in as UCID embodiments i.e. UCID and the other set of embodiments is labeled in as UUI embodiments i.e. UUI . From stage either set of embodiments can be performed. In some embodiment the outbound call is not recorded by default unless an instruction is received from the agent through the agent device to begin recording the call. The agent may choose to initiate recording based on the user s response to the prompt at stage .

Assuming that the UCID embodiments are implemented the method proceeds to stage where the IVR transmits the user s response to the compliance manager. At stage the compliance manager associates the UCID of the call with the user s recording reference in a table. In one embodiment stages and in are similar to stages and respectively in .

At stage the IVR drops out of the conference. The call then continues with the agent and the customer. From stage two different embodiments of the disclosure are presented. One embodiment is labeled in as embodiment A i.e. EMB. A and the other is labeled in as embodiment B i.e. EMB. B . From stage either one of embodiments A or B can be performed. Embodiment A is described in at stages and embodiment B is described in at stages .

Referring back to stage assuming that the UUI embodiments are implemented the method proceeds to stage where the IVR inserts the user s response as a field in the UUI information of the call. In one embodiment stage in is similar to stage in .

At stage the IVR drops out of the conference. The call then continues with the agent and the customer. From stage two different embodiments of the disclosure are presented. One embodiment is labeled in as embodiment C i.e. EMB. C and the other is labeled in as embodiment D i.e. EMB. D . From stage either one of embodiments C or D can be performed. Embodiment C is described in at stages and embodiment D is described in at stages .

Accordingly embodiments of the disclosure provide ways for the user s recording preference to be identified even after the call has been transferred to a different agent in a call center. In this manner embodiments of the disclosure help the call center comply with privacy issues associated with recording user phone calls.

In the example embodiments and applications the various applications can be configured on any distributed or embedded platform within a single physical location or multiple locations. As such embodiments contemplate that applications resources managers servers etc. may be joined or separated without diverging from their identities and functions. For example a server device may equivalently include a single server platform or multiple server platforms.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

For situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect personal information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to retrieve content i.e. recorded voicemails from a content server i.e. a voicemail server . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as for example to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by the systems discussed herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

One embodiment of the disclosure may be implemented as a program product for use with a computer system. The program s of the program product define functions of the embodiments including the methods described herein and can be contained on a variety of computer readable storage media. Illustrative computer readable storage media include but are not limited to i non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive flash memory ROM chips or any type of solid state non volatile semiconductor memory on which information is permanently stored and ii writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive or any type of solid state random access semiconductor memory on which alterable information is stored.

Variations of the embodiments disclosed herein may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. Skilled artisans may employ such variations as appropriate and the disclosure may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

