---

title: Turbine shroud thermal distortion control
abstract: A shroud for a gas turbine engine includes a leading portion having a leading edge and a first set of circumferentially spaced slots at the leading edge that break up the leading portion into circumferentially spaced segments separated by the first set of slots, and a trailing portion adjacent to the leading portion. The trailing portion has a trailing edge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08801372&OS=08801372&RS=08801372
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08801372
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121105
---
This application is a divisional of Ser. No. 13 308 269 filed Nov. 30 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 328 505 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 12 617 425 filed Nov. 12 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 092 160 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 11 502 079 filed Aug. 10 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 665 960. Reference is made to a U.S. patent application entitled CERAMIC SHROUD ASSEMBLY Ser. No. 11 502 212 filed on Aug. 10 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 771 160.

This invention was made with Government support under contract number W31P4Q 05 D R002 awarded by the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command Operation and Service Directorate. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to an outer shroud for use in a gas turbine engine. More particularly the present invention relates to a means for achieving substantially uniform thermal growth of an outer shroud.

In a gas turbine engine a static shroud is disposed radially outwardly from a turbine rotor which includes a plurality of blades radially extending from a disc. The shroud ring at least partially defines a flow path for combustion gases as the gases pass from a combustor through turbine stages. Typically there is a gap between the shroud ring and rotor blade tips in order to accommodate thermal expansion of the blade during operation of the gas turbine engine. The size of the gap changes during engine operation as the shroud and rotor blades thermally expand in a radial direction in reaction to high operating temperatures. It is generally desirable to minimize the gap between a blade tip and shroud ring in order to minimize the percentage of hot combustion gases that leak through the tip region of the blade. The leakage reduces the amount of energy that is transferred from the gas flow to the turbine blades which may penalize engine performance. This is especially true for smaller scale gas turbine engines where tip clearance is a larger percentage of the combustion gas flow path.

Many components in a gas turbine engine such as a turbine blade and shroud operate in a non uniform temperature environment. The non uniform temperature causes the components to grow unevenly and in some cases lose their original shape. In the case of a shroud such uneven deformation may affect the performance of the gas turbine engine because the tip clearance increases as the shroud expands radially outward away from the turbine blades .

A shroud for a gas turbine engine includes a leading portion having a leading edge and a first set of circumferentially spaced slots at the leading edge that break up the leading portion into circumferentially spaced segments separated by the first set of slots and a trailing portion adjacent to the leading portion. The trailing portion has a trailing edge.

In the present invention a shroud of a gas turbine engine exhibits substantially uniform thermal growth during operation of the gas turbine engine. Substantially uniform thermal growth may help increase gas turbine efficiency by minimizing a clearance between the shroud and turbine blade tips.

During operation of the gas turbine engine hot gases from a combustion chamber not shown enter first high pressure turbine stage and move in a downstream aft direction indicated by arrow past nozzle vanes . Nozzle vanes direct the flow of hot gases past rotating turbine blades which radially extend from a rotor disc not shown as known in the art. As known in the art shroud assembly defines an outer boundary of a flow path for hot combustion gases as they pass from the combustor through turbine stage while platform positioned on an opposite end of blades from shroud assembly defines an inner flow path surface.

Shroud extends from leading edge A also known as a front edge to trailing edge B also known as an aft edge and includes backside C and front side D where front side D is closest to the leading edge of blade . Leading edge A and trailing edge B are positioned on axially opposite sides of shroud and as known in the art leading edge A is generally the front edge of shroud i.e. closest to the front of the gas turbine engine while trailing edge B is the aft edge of shroud . Backside C and front side D of shroud are positioned on opposite sides of shroud . Leading portion of shroud is adjacent to leading edge A and trailing portion is adjacent to trailing edge B.

Orthogonal x z axes are provided in . The z axis direction represents a radial direction with respect to gas turbine engine centerline which is schematically represented by line while the x axis direction represents an axial direction. When shroud thermally expands shroud expands in a radial outward direction i.e. away from centerline .

As described in the Background clearance between blade tip A and shroud accommodates thermal expansion of blade in response to high operating temperatures in turbine stage . Considerations when establishing clearance include the expected amount of thermal expansion of blade as well as the expected amount of thermal expansion of shroud . Clearance should be approximately equal to the distance that is necessary to prevent blade and shroud from contacting one another. When shroud thermally expands radially outward clearance between blade tip A shroud increases if the thermal expansion of shroud is greater than the thermal expansion of blade . It is generally desirable to minimize clearance between blade tip A and shroud in order to minimize the percentage of hot combustion gases that leak through tip A region of blade which may penalize engine performance.

Uneven thermal growth of shroud may adversely affect clearance and cause clearance in some regions to be greater than others. It has been found that shroud undergoes uneven thermal growth for at least two reasons. First leading portion of shroud may be exposed to higher operating temperatures than trailing portion which may cause shroud leading portion to encounter more thermal growth than trailing portion . Turbine blade extracts energy from hot combustion gases and as a result of the energy extraction the combustion gas temperature decreases from blade leading edge B to trailing edge C. This drop in temperature between blade leading edge B and trailing edge C may impart an uneven heat load to shroud because combustion gas transfers heat to shroud . More heat is transferred to leading portion of shroud because leading portion is adjacent to hotter combustion gas at the blade leading edge B which is exposed to higher temperature combustion gases than blade trailing edge C. If shroud experiences such uneven operating temperatures shroud leading portion encounters more thermal growth than shroud trailing portion which may create a larger clearance between shroud and blade tip A shown in at shroud leading portion .

Returning now to in a first embodiment uniform thermal growth of shroud is achieved by impingement cooling leading portion of shroud while thermally insulating trailing portion . In existing gas turbine engines cooling air is bled from the compressor stage and routed to the turbine stage in order to cool various components. One of the components cooled in current designs is trailing portion of shroud which causes trailing portion to be significantly cooler than leading portion . In response leading edge A of shroud may curl up in a radially outward direction which causes tip clearance to increase. This is an undesirable result. The first embodiment addresses the problems with existing shroud cooling systems by reducing the backside cooling and the attendant through thickness temperature gradient that causes curl up.

In the first embodiment an inventive cooling system includes directing cooling air toward leading portion of shroud through cooling holes in metal support as indicated by arrow . More specifically the cooling air is bled from the compressor section using a method known in the art through flow path through cooling holes in casing and through cooling holes in metal support . The cooling air then flows across leading portion of shroud and across leading edge A of shroud . In one embodiment cooling air from cooling holes in metal support is directed at aft side of leading portion of shroud . Cooling leading portion of shroud helps even out the axial temperature variation across shroud because leading portion is typically exposed to higher operating temperatures than trailing portion . Although a cross section of turbine stage is illustrated in it should be understood that multiple cooling holes are circumferentially disposed about metal support and multiple cooling holes are disposed about casing in order to cool the full hoop of the shroud backside or OD .

Circumferential temperature variation of shroud may also be addressed by actively cooling hotspots A F shown in by positioning cooling holes in metal support and interlayer to direct cooling air at hotspots A F.

It was also found that thermally insulating trailing portion further helped achieve an even axial temperature distribution across shroud . In the embodiment illustrated in trailing portion is insulated by interlayer which overlays trailing portion including trailing edge B . Interlayer may be formed of a thermal insulator such as mica sold under the trade designation COGETHERM and made by Cogeby. In an alternate embodiment interlayer may be a thermal barrier coating such as but not limited to yttria stabilized zirconia. Trailing portion can be cooled if needed by convective cooling.

Along front side D of shroud region H exhibited a temperature of about 1057 C. 1936 F. region I about 1045 C. 1914 F. region J about 1032 C. 1891 F. region K about 1020 C. 1869 F. region L about 1007 C. 1846 F. region M about 995 C. 1824 F. and region N about 983 C. 1802 F. . Along front side D leading portion exhibits a higher temperature than trailing portion because the cooling is directed at backside C of leading portion . As a result of the higher temperature along front side D of leading portion front side D of leading portion is inclined to experience more thermal growth than front side D of trailing portion . However because backside C of leading portion does not experience as much thermal growth as backside C of trailing portion the thermal growth along front side D and backside C of shroud work together to achieve substantially uniform thermal growth of shroud . Furthermore the cooler temperature along backside C of leading portion helps restrain thermal growth along front side D of leading portion .

In one method of forming shroud each layer includes a different ratio of a first material having a high CTE and a second material having a low CTE. The ratios are adjusted to achieve the different CTE values. In one embodiment the first material having a high CTE may be silicon carbide while the second material having a lower CTE may be silicon nitride. In such an embodiment layer A may be pure silicon nitride while layer B is pure silicon carbide. In an embodiment where shroud may be formed of a single layer rather than multiple discrete layers the single layer is formed by varying the composition of the ceramic material as the ceramic material is deposited. In one embodiment the composition of the single layer is varied such that the material at leading edge A exhibits a CTE that is about 20 lower than material at trailing edge B.

As known the amount of thermal expansion growth is related to the CTE and temperature. Varying the CTE of shroud helps achieve substantially uniform thermal growth by compensating for temperature variation from leading edge A to trailing edge B. As previously described it has been found that leading edge A of shroud is exposed to higher operating temperatures than trailing edge B. In order to compensate for the difference in thermal growth a lower CTE material is positioned near leading edge A such that leading edge A and trailing edge B undergo substantially similar amount of thermal growth during operation even though leading edge A may be exposed to higher temperatures than trailing edge B. Shroud shown in phantom illustrates the substantially uniform growth of leading edge A and trailing edge B of shroud during operation of the gas turbine engine.

It has been found that without extended portion A leading edge C of main shroud portion B is likely to undergo more thermal growth than trailing edge D. With the structure of shroud however the thermal growth of leading edge C of main shroud portion B is restrained by extended portion A and is discouraged to grow radially outward because extended portion A does not undergo as much thermal growth as leading edge C. Substantially uniform thermal growth of shroud is achieved because leading edge C of main shroud portion A is no longer able to experience unlimited thermal growth.

Slots break up the continuous hoop of material forming shroud near leading edge A which helps decrease the accumulated effect of thermal growth of leading edge A of shroud . By decreasing the accumulated effect of thermal growth of leading edge A the amount of thermal growth of leading edge A is brought closer to the amount of thermal growth of trailing edge B which helps achieve substantially uniform thermal growth of shroud . While slots may cause shroud to curl in the radial direction i.e. the z axis direction in near leading edge A it is believed that the amount of curl is less than the expected thermal growth of shroud ring without slots .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description not limitation. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as bases for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention. Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

