---

title: Mobile device and computer readable medium for obtaining, encrypting, and packaging security tokens
abstract: An electronic device receives a third-party beneficiary selection at least one of a good, a service, and a payment. A set of contacts is presented in response to receiving the selection. A selection of at least one promisor from the set of contacts is received. A wireless message comprising at least an identifier of the third-party beneficiary selection is generated. The wireless message is transmitted to a mobile device associated with the at least one promisor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430787&OS=09430787&RS=09430787
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09430787
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120214
---
This application claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 442 579 filed Feb. 14 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to electronic messaging and more particularly relates to procuring goods service funds utilizing messages between electronic devices.

Electronic devices such as wireless communication devices have evolved such that a user is now able to perform many functions on a single device. For example users are able to send messages to other devices browse virtual environments and marketplaces purchase goods and services etc. However current technologies generally fail to provide an efficient and useful nexus between these capabilities.

As required detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples and that the systems and methods described below can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the disclosed subject matter in virtually any appropriately detailed structure and function. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically.

The terms wireless communication device and mobile device are used herein interchangeably and are intended to broadly cover many different types of devices that can wirelessly receive signals and in most cases can wirelessly transmit signals and may also operate in a wireless communication system. For example and not for any limitation these devices can include any one or a combination of the following a two way radio a cellular telephone a mobile phone a smartphone a two way pager a wireless messaging device a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a tablet computing device and other similar devices.

Described below are systems and methods for message based procurement. An electronic device receives a third party beneficiary selection that is at least one of a good a service and a payment from a user. The at least one of a good a service and a payment is to be used by and benefit the user. A second set of contacts is presented to the user in response to receiving the selection. A selection of at least one promisor from the set of contacts is received from the user. A wireless message comprising at least an identifier of the user and the third party beneficiary selection is generated. The wireless message is transmitted to a mobile device associated with the at least one promisor.

The user devices can be electronic devices such as but not limited to wireless communication devices information processing systems such as notebook tablet and desktop computers and or the like. At least one user device comprises a message based procurement environment MBPE . In one example the MBPE is a tool such as but not limited to an application a website a web application a mashup etc. that allows the user of the device to request via a message one or more other users to fund or partially fund a purchase of a good a purchase of a service or a payment on behalf of the user. The message can be a wireless or wired based message.

Additionally the MBPE further allows the user of the device to perform a gifting operation where the user funds or partially funds a purchase of a good a purchase of a service or a payment on behalf of the user using the device . In one example these goods services and transactional services e.g. transfer of funds are offered through a virtual environment such as a virtual marketplace hosted by one or more information processing systems such as the procurement management system . However these goods services and transactional items can also be offered by physical entities as well. It should be noted that in one or more examples the MBPE is not associated with a virtual environment but is associated with a given service such as a pre paid account or stored value replenishment service a virtual wallet application or the like. The virtual wallet application allows the user to among other things transfer funds between users manage and maintain funds or payment methods within the virtual wallet and or the like. Additionally the functionality of the MBPE can be built into a messaging client such as but not limited to a P2P messaging client. In this example a user can user utilize P2P messages to request or send funds to other users request goods services to be purchased by other users purchase goods services for other users and or the like.

In one example the MBPE comprises a user interaction manager a contact manager a message generator and a security manager . The user interaction manager manages a user s interaction with the MBPE . The contact manager manages one or more sets of contact profile s associated with the user and presents these contacts from these contact profile s or at least a subset of these contacts to the user when performing a request or gifting operation through the MBPE . For example based on the type of transaction e.g. purchase of a good service transfer of funds etc. being requested by the user the contact manager identifies a set of contacts from the various contact profile s associated with the user that comprises a set of potential contacts capable or willing to fulfill the user s request. The contact profile s can include contacts associated with specific messaging types such as peer to peer messages email messages SMS MMS messages social networking messages or the like. Alternatively the contact profile s can comprise contacts associated with various social communities such as but not limited to a friends community a business community a social networking community or the like. Also the user is able to designate a set of contacts within the contact profile s that the contact manager is to either consider and or ignore. For example the user can create a set of rules that instruct the contact manager to ignore the user s business contacts and only consider the user s personal contacts.

The message generator manages the creation and reception of request gift messages and operates in conjunction with one or more messaging clients . It should be noted that the following discussion references a request message and a gift message . A request message is a third party beneficiary message sent from a first user also referred to as a gift requestor or requesting user to at least a second user or promisor that requests the second user to fund or partially fund a purchase of a good a purchase of a service and or a payment to or from the first user for the use and benefit of the first user. A gift message is a message sent from a first user to a second user indicating that the first user has funded or partially funded a purchase of a good a purchase of a service and or a payment to or from the second user for the use and benefit of the second user.

The messaging client manages the communication of messages wireless or wired based messages to and from one or more other user devices . For example the message generator is operable to generate a request message based on a user s interaction with the MBPE and the messaging client is operable to wirelessly transmit this request message as a peer to peer P2P message or any other type of message to another user device . The security manager provides various levels of security within the MBPE . For example the security manager can encrypt outgoing messages and decrypt incoming messages. Also the security manager can communicate with various entities to obtain security mechanisms to be included within an outgoing message. It should be noted that one or more of the MBPE components discussed above can reside outside of the MBPE and optionally within another component such as but not limited the messaging client . The MBPE and its components are discussed in greater detail below.

A user in one example is able to interact with the virtual environment via the MBPE . For example a user can purchase gift i.e. fund a purchase payment for another user for the use by and benefit of the other user or request another user to fund a purchase of a good a purchase of a service and or a payment which can include a transfer of funds from the other user to the requesting user or to a third entity on behalf of the requesting user through the MBPE as will be discussed in greater detail below. It should be noted that in other examples a user device such as User Device N shown in is not required to comprise the MBPE to interact with and perform transactions within the virtual environment .

The procurement managing system also comprises a transaction manager that manages the various transactions within the virtual environment . For example the transaction manager manages purchases of items within the virtual environment processes payments for the purchases and the like. The procurement management system further comprises subscriber profiles that maintain information associated with users who have subscribed to the virtual environment . For example subscriber profiles can include a user identifier a user password shipping information billing information payment information device information and the like associated with a subscribed user. It should be noted that a user in some examples is not required to have actively subscribed to the virtual environment . For example by simply being a customer of a given wireless carrier or having a specific device the user may automatically be subscribed to the virtual environment .

The procurement management system further comprises a security manager that provides various forms and levels of security for the virtual environment and transactions associated therewith. For example the security manager provides one or more secure connections between the user devices and the procurement management system . The security manager authenticates users who are interacting with the virtual environment . The security manager also secures the transactions occurring at the procurement management system . It should be noted that one or more components of the procurement management system can reside at one or more different systems. For example the transaction manager can reside at one or more remote systems. Also the goods and services associated with the electronic catalogs can reside on the procurement management system as well. The procurement management system and its components are discussed in greater detail below.

The goods service provider provides the goods services to a user which are offered through the electronic catalogs of the virtual environment . Once the procurement management system informs the goods service provider that a successful transaction has taken place the goods service provider provides the goods services to the appropriate user which can either be the actual purchaser or another recipient such as a gift recipient or a requesting user. For example if the transaction is for a digital music file the goods services provider can transmit by wireless or wired communication mechanisms the music file to the appropriate device . Alternatively the device is able to download the music file directly from the goods service provider . If the transaction was for a physical item the goods service provider can ship or at least initiate the shipment of the good to the user.

As discussed above one type of message that can be generated by the MBPE is a P2P message. In one example the operating environment comprises a P2P system as shown in . The P2P system in this example is a component of a wireless infrastructure associated with the one or more networks . In particular shows one example of a configuration that is suitable for a user device to conduct a P2P communication e.g. instant messaging application on application platform etc. with contacts included in their contact profile s . It can be seen in that the P2P system is incorporated into the wireless infrastructure of the network . The P2P system can utilize any suitable P2P protocol operated by a P2P messaging router in this example as part of the wireless infrastructure . It can be appreciated however that a stand alone P2P configuration i.e. that does not rely on the wireless infrastructure not shown may equally apply the principles herein. The example configuration shown in is particularly suitable for implementing a PIN based messaging system. As can be seen the P2P messaging router may also enable user devices to communicate with desktop computers thus facilitating for example communications such as instant messaging IM between mobile applications and desktop applications on the desktop computer .

In the example illustrated in a P2P based messaging system such as a PIN based messaging system can be implemented using a router based communication infrastructure such as one that provides email SMS voice Internet and other communications. Particularly suitable for hosting the P2P messaging router is a wireless router or server used in systems such as those that provide push based communication services. In the wireless infrastructure facilitates P2P communications such as instant messaging between user device and user devices for User N and User B respectively using the P2P messaging router . It will be appreciated that the number of users participating in the example shown in is for illustrative purposes only. P2P messaging such as IM is provided by an associated application stored on each user device which can be initiated for example by highlighting and selecting an icon from a display as is well known in the art. The P2P messaging router routes messages between the user devices according to the P2P protocol . For example the P2P protocol may define a particular way in which to conduct IM or other types of messaging.

In general in a P2P protocol the sender of the P2P message knows the source address of the intended recipient e.g. a PIN. This may be established when the two devices request to add each other to their respective contact or buddy lists. It can be seen in the example shown in that user device can communicate directly with any of the user devices through the P2P messaging router as indicated by the short dashed line without requiring a dedicated server for facilitating communications. In other words the P2P messaging router enables the user devices to communicate with each other directly over the wireless infrastructure in accordance with the P2P protocol .

When conducting a P2P session according to the embodiment shown in the user devices can communicate directly with the wireless infrastructure in a client based exchange where as noted above an intermediate server is not required. A P2P message sent by one user device is received by the wireless infrastructure which obtains the source address for the intended recipient from information associated with the P2P message e.g. a data log or from the message itself. Upon obtaining the recipient s address according to the P2P protocol the wireless infrastructure then routes the P2P message to the recipient associated with the user device having such address. The wireless infrastructure typically also provides a delivery confirmation to the original sender which may or may not be displayed to the user. The destination device can also provide such delivery information. The wireless infrastructure should be capable of routing messages reliably and hold onto the P2P messages until they are successfully delivered. Alternatively if delivery cannot be made after a certain timeout period the wireless infrastructure may provide a response indicating a failed delivery. The wireless infrastructure may choose to expire a P2P message if a certain waiting period lapses.

The following is a more detailed discussion on message based procurement of goods services and funds utilizing the MBPE and other mechanisms discussed above. It should be noted that although the followings examples are given with respect to the MBPE and the virtual environment the present invention is not limited to such examples. For example the MBPE can be associated with a single good or service such as pre paid account replenishment or can be implemented within a messaging client where funds can be transferred between user accounts via messages.

The user interaction manager of the MBPE determines that the user has selected an item and as a result displays this item in a portion of the device display along with a description of the item and various actions that the user can take with respect to this item. For example the user is presented with a first option which allows the user to buy purchase the selected item using one or more payment methods. A second option allows the user to purchase this item as a gift on behalf of another user for the use and benefit of the item by the other user. A third option allows the user to save the item in a wish list that can be shared with one or more other users. These other users are able to view the wish list and purchase the items within the wish list as a gift for the user. In addition the first user is able to add an item to his her wish list and request that multiple users partially pay for the requested item. For example consider a user named Tom. Tom selects an item from an electronic catalog and adds the item to his wish list. Tom is then able to send a request message as will be discussed in greater detail below to one or more other users such as his family members to each partially pay for the requested item. In addition Tom can also pre designate an amount for each of his family members to pay. A fourth option allows the user to send a request to one or more other users to fund a purchase this item or fund a payment if the item selected is a payment to another entity or a transfer of funds to the requesting user .

In the example of the user herein referred to as the first user has selected the send request option as indicated by the arrow . This request can be referred to as a third party beneficiary request since this option is for requesting another user i.e. a promisor to purchase fund the selected item for the use and benefit of the requesting user. The user interaction manager detects the first user s selection to send a request and prompts the user to select a type of message for sending the request as shown in . It should be noted that if the first user has configured the MBPE with a default message type then the first user may not be prompted for a message type selection. As can be seen in various message types supported by the device such as a P2P message type an email message type and an MMS message type are displayed to the first user. It should be noted that these message types are only used for illustrative purposes only and other message types are applicable as well. In the example of the first user has selected the P2P message type as indicated by the arrow .

Referring now to the user interaction manager detects that the first user has selected a message type and prompts the contact manager to analyze the contact profile s to identify a set of contacts that are potentially able or willing to satisfy the request for the selected item. In one example the contact manager filters the contact profile s to identify contacts that are able to send receive messages according to the messaging protocol selected by the first user. In another example the first user is able to instruct the contact manager to provide contacts from a specific community of contacts such as a given social network community contacts business community contacts P2P messaging community contacts and the like. Once the contact manager has identified a set of contacts from the contact profile s the MBPE displays this set of contacts to the first user as shown in . The first user is also prompted to the select one or more contacts to satisfy the request. As can be seen in the first user has selected User N as indicated by the arrow .

Referring now to once the first user has selected the user s herein referred to as the second user to satisfy his her gift request the message generator of the MBPE via the messaging client associated with the selected messaging type begins to generate a message to be transmitted to the second user as shown in . For example shows a message that comprises a messaging address associated with the second user a picture of the item being requested by the first user a description of the item a message from the first user to the second user and a selectable uniform resource locator . The selectable uniform resource locator in combination with an optional security transaction token discussed below allows the second user to interact with the procurement management system to deny the request satisfy or partially satisfy the request. The selectable uniform resource locator is useful in situations where the second user device does not include the MBPE . If the second user device does comprise the MBPE the selectable uniform resource locator is optionally not required. It should be noted that in some examples a separate selectable uniform resource locator is not required. For example the picture of the selected item or the description of the selected item can be selectable and comprise the uniform resource locator discussed above.

In addition to the request message being generated the security manager also generates retrieves one or more security mechanisms to be packaged with the request message . For example the security manager sends a request to the procurement management system or other system for a security or transaction token. This request includes in one example an identifier associated with the selected good service such as but not limited to an encoded stock keeping unit SKU and an identifier associated with the requesting user device . The procurement management system via its security manager authenticates the first user and device using the information received from the security manager of the first user device . For example the security manager of the procurement management system compares the information received from the security manager of the first user device with information in the subscriber profile associated with the first user.

Once the first user has been authenticated the procurement management system sends the requested token back to the security manager of the first user device . In one example the security transaction token comprises security and or transaction information such as but not limited to the encoded SKU of the selected item the name of the first user an email of the first user a unique identifier associated with the first user device and a unique identifier associated with the requested item. However other security information is applicable as well. In one example the security manager then encrypts the security transaction token with one or more encryption mechanisms.

The message generator then packages the security transaction token with the request message . If the request message comprises the selectable uniform resource location the security transaction token can be packaged with the request message such that when the second user selects the uniform resource location the token is transmitted to the procurement management system . The messaging client then transmits either wirelessly or by wired mechanisms the request message to the second user. It should be noted that in one example the first user is able to select an item service or fund transfer using another application that is separate and distinct from the MBPE . In this example the application communicates with the MBPE . The MBPE performs the security authentication process discussed above and generates the security transaction token. The application then receives the security transaction token from the MBPE and transmits the request message and the security transaction token to the second user device .

It should be noted that request gift messages are not limited to be sent via the messaging client . In other words the virtual environment or any other application that the first user requested an item from can send the request message to the second user via an account associated with the environment an application or the like. For example the first user can send a request message from within an application such as a game to the second user for an in game item. Also the request gifting functionality is not required to be provided by a component such as the MBPE residing on a user s device . For example the request gifting functionality can be provided by a set of application programming interfaces APIs residing on a remote server such as the procurement management system .

The user device of the second user then receives the request message and is notified accordingly. The second user can be notified of the request message in many different ways. For example if the second user device comprises the MBPE a notification can be displayed to the second user when the second user opens or logs into the MBPE . In another example a notification can be displayed to the second user when the second user opens or logs into a given application on his her device or over the Internet. Additionally in one example the notification received by the second user or gift recipient is dependent upon the method used by the first user or gifting user to send the request message or gift message . For example if the second user or gift recipient sends the request message or gift message via a P2P message the second user or gift recipient receives the notification via his her P2P messaging client. However in other examples the method of receiving the notification is not dependent upon how the request message or gift message was sent.

Once the second user selects the request or gift message the second user is displayed the request message as shown in . In the example of the request message comprises a From field that displays the first user s name or address a picture video of the requested item a description of the requested item a message from the first user and a selectable URL . It should be noted that the request message is not required to include one or more of these components. Also one or more additional components can be added to the request message. For example the selectable URL is optionally not required if the second user device of comprises the MBPE but still can be included for security authentication purposes. However if the device of the second user does not comprises the MBPE then selectable URL allows the second user device to securely connect to the procurement management system to satisfy or deny the request.

For example shows that the user has clicked on the selectable URL as indicated by the arrow . As discussed above the selectable URL comprises the security transaction token associated with the first user and the requested item. In an example where the second user s device does not comprise the MBPE the selection of the URL establishes a secure connection with the procurement management system via the security managers of the second user device and the procurement management system . The security transaction token is transmitted from the second device to the procurement management system through this secure connection. The transaction manager in optional conjunction with the security manager at the procurement management system decrypts the security transaction token and analyzes its information. For example the transaction manager retrieves the encoded SKU of the requested item the name of the requesting user an email of the first user a unique identifier associated with the first user device and a unique identifier associated with the request transaction. It should be noted that these are only examples of some of the information that can be retrieved from the security transaction token.

In one example the transaction manager analyzes a set of transaction IDs stored at the procurement management system in response to the security transaction token being generated. The transaction manger analyzes this set of stored transaction IDs to determine if a match is found with respect to the request transaction ID within the security transaction token received from the second user device . If a match exists the transaction manager matches the information associated with the stored request transaction ID with the information included in the security transaction token. For example the transaction manager determines if the name of the first user email device ID or subscriber ID etc. included within the security transaction token matches the same information stored at the procurement management system for the identified stored transaction ID. If the information matches the transaction manager generates a certificate of authentication and communicates this back to the second user device . If a match does not exist the transaction manager notifies the second user device that the transaction could not be authenticated. It should be noted that other types of authentication are applicable as well.

Once the request transaction has been authenticated the procurement management system displays via the interactive interface s at the second user device one or more options that the second user can select with respect to the requested item as shown in . For example shows that the second user is presented with a first option that allows the second user to accept the first user s request and a second option e.g. a decline option that allows the second user to decline the first user s request. It should be noted that if the second user s device comprises the MBPE the above authentication process can be optionally performed via the MBPE on the second user device .

If the second user selects the decline option the second user can be presented with the option of writing a message to the first user. The first user is then sent a message informing him her that the request has been declined. In one example the decline message is sent to the first user via the same messaging mechanism used to send the second user the request message. In another example the decline message is sent via a different messaging mechanism than what was used send the second user the request message. The various methods and examples of sending messages between users have been discussed above with respect to . Also the first user can be notified of the decline message similar to the examples discussed above with respect to .

If the second user selects the accept option as shown by the arrow in the second user is presented with an option to fund the purchase payment of the item in its entirety and an option to partially fund the purchase payment as shown in . The second user is also provided with a set of payment options for funding or partially funding the purchase payment of the item. For example shows a first option that allows the second user to use his her account balance a second option that allows the second user to use a given credit card and a third option that allows the second user to use a banking account. It should be noted that other options can be presented to the second user as well such as third party payment systems and the second user s wireless carrier account. The account balance option can be linked to a virtual wallet of the second user an account associated with the MBPE a third party payment service account or the like. In one example these various payments methods have been previously established configured by the second user and stored in the subscriber profiles at the procurement management system . In other examples the second user is able to select a payment option and enter the payment information in response thereto. Even further the contact manager can select a set of contacts that also have the same application used by the first user to select the item for the request message.

If the second user selects the partial funding option the second user is prompted to enter the amount that he she will pay. A message via the messaging mechanism discussed above is then sent to the requestor notifying him her that the selected recipient user has agreed to partially pay for the requested item. The first user is then presented with a screen similar to that shown in where the first user can either cancel the request pay the remainder of the balance partially pay the remainder of the balance and send another funding request to an additional user s or send one or more messages back to the second user to perform further negotiations. Additionally the second user can also send a request to one or more additional users to help partially pay for the purchase of the item. When all of the funding has been provided from all involved users each party is notified accordingly.

Once the second user has been authenticated the second user s payment information within the submitted transaction is then processed by the transaction manager or a payment processing service residing at another system. In an example where the MBPE authenticates the second user and the submitted transaction the MBPE sends a payment processing request to the procurement management system or another payment processing system that comprises payment information purchased item identification information identification associated with the second user and or any other information required to process the transaction. The payment is processed and the goods service provider is notified that the requested item has been purchased. The goods service provider is also provided with information associated with the transaction first user device the second user and or the second user device . This information allows the goods service provider to verify the identity of the first user device when the first user device submits a request to download requested item. Alternatively this information allows the goods service provider to push the purchased goods service funds to the first user device or the first user s account. In yet another example this information allows the goods service provider to effectuate the physical shipment of the physical good or the dispatchment of a service to the shipping service address of the first user.

The goods service provider can notify the procurement management system when a successful delivery or unsuccessful delivery of the goods services funds to the first user or first user device has occurred. The procurement management system or other payment processing system also sends a receipt to the second user device that the payment was successful and a receipt to the first user device indicating the request has been fulfilled. Also when the first user retrieves or receives his her requested item then the second user can be sent a notification from the first user the procurement management system and or the goods service provider .

In addition to fulfilling a request for an item a first user can send gift goods services funds to a second user or multiple users without being requested to do so. For example the first user can select the gift option shown in . In this example similar processes discussed above with respect to are performed where a gift message is sent to the second user instead of a request message. The second user is able to accept the gift decline the gift or transfer the gift to another user. Gifts can be full paid gifts or partially paid gifts where the second user is required to satisfy the remaining balance if he she selects to accept the gift.

As discussed above users can also transfer and request funds to and from other users. The examples discussed above with respect to apply to fund transfers as well. In addition funds can be transferred from many different accounts such as but not limited to credit cards banking accounts third party payment accounts and wireless carrier accounts e.g. stored value accounts . In addition to the examples given above fund transfers can occur in a chat environment between users using the messaging clients . For example within a P2P chat one of the menu options can be send funds . If the user has sufficient funds in their virtual wallet the user can be shown the amount of funds available and prompted to enter an amount for transfer. If there are insufficient funds the user is prompted to add more funds.

If the user is in a group chat the user can be presented with the option to send to all or send to select . If the user chooses to send to all the user is prompted to enter the amount to send to all members of the group. If the user chooses to send to select the user is presented with a list of all group members with a field beside each name that allows the entry of a custom amount to transfer. The user can send funds to all members with this method with the additional benefit of being able to send each member different amounts. The user can then be shown a summary of the transaction and is able to confirm and send the payment. The receiving user s is then prompted to either accept or deny the fund transfer.

In an example directed to transferring funds the user can be presented with an option to request funds while in a chat environment between users using the messaging clients . The user can be prompted to enter the amount to request and provide a comment explanation of the request. Within a group chat the user can be presented with the option to request from all or request from select . If the user chooses to request from all the user is be prompted to enter the amount to request from all members of the group. If the user chooses to request from select the user is presented with a list of all group members with a field beside each name that allows the entry of a custom amount to request. The user can request funds from all members with this method with the additional benefit of being able to request different amounts from each member. The user is shown a summary of the amounts before confirming and sending the request. The recipient s is notified of the request and prompted to Send Funds or Decline . If the recipient chooses to Send Funds the send process is initiated. If the recipient chooses to decline the requestor is notified. For example the status of message can be changed to indicate that the request has been declined.

It should be noted that in examples where a first user is requesting funds from a second user or the second user is sending funds to the first user without receiving a request the first or second user is able to set conditions on the use of the funds. For example funds can be designated to only be used in a given virtual environment for a given application music file video file or the like. Alternatively a third party such as wireless carrier can also designate how funds are to be used in some examples where the funds are coming from a wireless carrier account.

The first user at step selects a second contact from the allowable contacts. The application at step requests a security transaction token from the MBPE or the procurement management system as discussed above. It should be noted that if the application is the MBPE the MBPE can generate the security transaction token or request a security transaction token from the procurement management system as well. The MBPE or procurement management system at step authenticates the first user as discussed above. Once the first user is authenticated the MBPE or procurement management system at step returns a security transaction token to the application. The application at step sends a request message to the second user as discussed above with respect to .

The second user device at step presents the request message to the second user as discussed above with respect to . The second user at step selects the URL within the displayed message . The second user device in the example of comprises an MBPE . Therefore the MBPE at step decrypts the security transaction token as discussed above. However if the second user device does not comprise an MBPE then a secure connection is established between the second user device and the procurement management system is to perform the decryption and authentication processes discussed below. One the security transaction token is decrypted the MBPE at the second user device at step shows information associated with the requested item and a certificate of authentication to the second user. The second user at step accepts the request to fund the request from the first user as discussed above with respect to . The MBPE at the second user device or the procurement management system at step authenticates the second user as discussed above.

The MBPE at the second user device at step sends a payment processing request comprising the device ID or subscriber ID to the procurement management system or another system comprising payment processing services . The procurement management system at step processes the payment. The procurement management system at step sends a trigger message to the goods service provider that a payment has been received for a given good service or fund transfer. If the goods service provider is to push or ship the requested item to the first user the goods service provider at step sends or ships the requested item to the first user or first user s account. The goods service provider at step notifies the procurement management system of when the requested item has been successfully or unsuccessfully processed. The procurement management system at step sends a payment receipt to the second user. The procurement management system at step also sends a receipt to the first user notifying him her that the second user fulfilled his her request. The control flow then ends. The processes of steps to have been described above with respect to in greater detail.

The illustrated electronic device is an example electronic device that includes two way wireless communications functions. Such electronic devices incorporate a communication subsystem comprising elements such as a wireless transmitter a wireless receiver and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and . A digital signal processor DSP performs processing to extract data from received wireless signals and to generate signals to be transmitted. The particular design of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network and associated wireless communications protocols with which the device is intended to operate.

The electronic device includes a microprocessor that controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The microprocessor interacts with the above described communications subsystem elements and also interacts with other device subsystems such as non volatile memory random access memory RAM user interfaces such as a display a keyboard a speaker and a microphone auxiliary input output I O device Universal Serial Bus USB Port short and long range communication subsystems a power subsystem and any other device subsystems.

A battery is connected to a power subsystem to provide power to the circuits of the electronic device . The power subsystem includes power distribution circuitry for providing power to the electronic device and also contains battery charging circuitry to manage recharging the battery . The external power supply is able to be connected to an external power connection or through a USB port .

The USB port further provides data communication between the electronic device and one or more external devices such as an information processing system. Data communication through USB port enables a user to set preferences through the external device or through a software application and extends the capabilities of the device by enabling information or software exchange through direct connections between the electronic device and external data sources rather than via a wireless data communication network. In addition to data communication the USB port provides power to the power subsystem to charge the battery or to supply power to the electronic circuits such as microprocessor of the electronic device .

Operating system software used by the microprocessor is stored in non volatile memory . Further examples are able to use a battery backed up RAM or other non volatile storage data elements to store operating systems other executable programs or any combination of the above. The operating system software device application software or parts thereof are able to be temporarily loaded into volatile data storage such as RAM . Data received via wireless communication signals or through wired communications are also able to be stored to RAM . As an example a computer executable program configured to perform the message based procurement process discussed above is included in a software module stored in non volatile memory .

The microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions is able to execute software applications on the electronic device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including at least data and voice communication applications is able to be installed on the electronic device during manufacture. Examples of applications that are able to be loaded onto the device may be a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to the device user such as but not limited to e mail instant messaging calendar events voice mails appointments and task items.

Further applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through for example a wireless network an auxiliary I O device USB port communication subsystem or any combination of these interfaces. Such applications are then able to be installed by a user in the RAM or a non volatile store for execution by the microprocessor .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem including wireless receiver and wireless transmitter and communicated data is provided the microprocessor which is able to further process the received data for output to the display or alternatively to an auxiliary I O device or the USB port . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard which is able to include a complete alphanumeric keyboard or a telephone type keypad in conjunction with the display and possibly an auxiliary I O device . Such composed items are then able to be transmitted over a communication network through the communication subsystem.

For voice communications overall operation of the electronic device is substantially similar except that received signals are generally provided to a speaker and signals for transmission are generally produced by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is generally accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information for example.

Depending on conditions or statuses of the electronic device one or more particular functions associated with a subsystem circuit may be disabled or an entire subsystem circuit may be disabled. For example if the battery temperature is low then voice functions may be disabled but data communications such as e mail may still be enabled over the communication subsystem.

A short range long range wireless communications subsystem is a further optional component which may provide for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices such. However these different systems or devices need not necessarily be similar devices as discussed above. The wireless communications subsystem comprises one or more wireless transceivers optionally associated circuits and components and an optional infrared device for communicating over various networks such implementing one or more wireless communication technologies such as but not limited to Bluetooth and or a wireless fidelity technologies.

A media reader is able to be connected to an auxiliary I O device to allow for example loading computer readable program code of a computer program product into the electronic device for storage into non volatile memory . One example of a media reader is an optical drive such as a CD DVD drive which may be used to store data to and read data from a computer readable medium or storage product such as machine readable media computer readable storage media . Examples of suitable computer readable storage media include optical storage media such as a CD or DVD magnetic media or any other suitable data storage device. Media reader is alternatively able to be connected to the electronic device through the USB port or computer readable program code is alternatively able to be provided to the electronic device through the wireless network .

Although specific embodiments of the subject matter have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed subject matter. The scope of the disclosure is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments and it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure.

