---

title: Detection and prevention of heavy congestion in a wireless network
abstract: Detection and prevention of heavy congestion in a wireless network is disclosed herein. Radio links are monitored and if the number of radio links reaches a first threshold level, one or more network parameters are modified in order shrink a cell footprint and/or to control cell reselection. The monitored radio links can be downlink circuit switched and packet switched radio links. Alternatively or additionally, an uplink noise level can be monitored and if the uplink noise level reaches a second threshold level, the one or more network parameters can be modified, even if the number of radio links are not at the threshold level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08942128&OS=08942128&RS=08942128
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08942128
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121127
---
The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and also generally to the detection and prevention of heavy congestion in a wireless network.

The wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls and poor communication have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls and poor communication can occur during periods of heavy congestion which can occur when there is a high concentration of active devices at a single location.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

Disclosed aspects relate to identifying and preventing a network from reaching a congestion point due to a large number of mobile devices at a similar geographic location using the network resources. If traffic is approaching a heavy congestion situation one or more radio network parameters can be adjusted as appropriate for the network load. For example if a particular event where there will be a large number of users is identified capacity parameters can be adjusted before the event. During the event other parameters can be changed dynamically in order to prevent congestion from reaching a critical point on both the downlink and the uplink. Such radio shaping can be an automated solution that can manage radio network parameters to appropriately adjust the parameters in view of the network load.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can be configured to identify when a wireless network is approaching a heavy congestion condition and automatically take one or more actions to avoid the heavy congestion condition. Avoidance of the heavy congestion condition can be desirable in order to reduce the number of dropped calls that occur when the network becomes congested. Further avoidance of the heavy congestion condition can prevent a decrease in network capability complete loss of the network due to an overload situation poor or no communication and so forth.

For example there can be a high concentration of active mobile devices and associated users at a particular location. This can be a result of a high capacity venue which can be an expected event e.g. a special event a music concert a sporting event a political rally and so forth and or an unexpected event e.g. a natural disaster a traffic accident an emergency a flash mob and so on . Due to the high concentration of mobile devices at a single location the number of users e.g. through respective mobile devices that might be using and or attempting to use the network can be more users and associated mobile devices than the network can adequately handle. Thus the network might become overloaded or congested due the higher than usual amount of active devices using or attempting to use the network at the particular location.

For example as a rock concert begins and the performers enter the stage area a large number of individuals at the event might with their respective mobile devices take pictures of the performers and or might record audio of the performers being introduced. Shortly after the pictures are taken and or the audio is recorded at least a portion of the large number of individuals that took the pictures or recorded the audio might attempt to share those pictures or audio with others at the event or more likely with others that are not at the event. The occurrence of a large number of mobile devices located in the same general area active on the network at about the same time is sometimes referred herein to as a usage surge . For example the individuals might send the picture s and or audio through various email applications social media applications web based technologies mobile based technologies and or through other means of communication. Other users might be using their devices for other purposes such as voice calls data calls to surf the Internet and for other uses that also consume network resources sometimes referred to as normal usage . If the normal usage and the usage surge increases to a level that is no longer sustainable by the network the network enters into a heavy congestion condition which can quickly result in user dissatisfaction. Although discussed with respect to normal usage and a usage surge it is noted that the disclosed aspects do not need to distinguish the different types of usage and such distinctions are used herein merely to describe the one or more aspects.

In an example during a high capacity venue a network might underperform and overall the users might have a poor experience due to poor communication conditions dropped calls and so forth. Based on the high concentration of active mobile devices it might be beneficial to describe and understand the network behavior as well as any limitations of the network. Detailed evaluation of network behavior in these types of scenarios can be performed and good and bad cases can be analyzed. In addition as venue capacity demands continue to grow as more capacity is added and as more bandwidth hungry applications e.g. streaming video streaming music and so forth are enabled a larger amount of data is being consumed. Traditional capacity expansion is difficult and expensive. Therefore the disclosed aspects provide for dynamic approaches to control demand.

As utilized herein a mobile device can include an air interface based electronic device such as but not limited to a cell phone a PDA personal digital assistant a media player a digital camera a media recorder a laptop a personal computer a printer a scanner a tablet a GPS global positioning system module a gaming module and so forth. Further the mobile device can also include air interface based appliances that can be employed for example in a home an office a building a retail store a restaurant a hotel a factory a warehouse and so on. It is noted that although referred to as a mobile device the device can be mobile e.g. cellular phone and or have limited mobility e.g. desktop computer .

It is noted that although various aspects and embodiments are discussed herein with respect to Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS the subject disclosure is not limited to a UMTS implementation. For example aspects or features of the disclosed embodiments can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

In an implementation some networks can be self configuring networks wherein new base stations that are added to a network can be automatically configured and integrated into the network. The disclosed aspects can be utilized in the self configuring networks to enable dynamic identification of a potential heavy congestion situation and configuration of various parameters to reduce the effects of the heavy congestion situation can be dynamically applied. In another implementation some networks can be self organizing networks wherein heavy traffic situations can be dynamically identified and one or more modifications automatically made to one or more parameters through use of the various aspects disclosed herein.

In an implementation a potential heavy congestion condition can be identified based on the number of radio links in use. For example the number of radio links can be counted and a determination can be made whether or not the counted number of radio links satisfies a condition. The condition can be for example a threshold number of radio links that the network can support. In another example the condition can be a number of radio links that is below the maximum number of radio links that the network can support. If the number of radio links is approaching or is at the threshold level various radio network parameters can be adjusted to accommodate the network load in an attempt to alleviate the occurrence of a heavy congestion condition.

In an additional or alternative implementation a potential heavy congestion condition can be identified based on a measurement of the noise present on the uplink. For example the measurement of the noise level can be taken and a determination can be made whether or not the noise level satisfies a condition. In this case the condition can be for example a maximum amount of noise that is expected on the uplink during normal operation e.g. not approaching a congestion level not at a congestion level and so on . If the noise level condition is satisfied the one or more network parameters can be adjusted to avoid a heavy congestion condition.

Referring initially to illustrated is an example non limiting system configured to prevent a wireless network from reaching a congestion point according to an aspect. The processes on a downlink e.g. the communication from the network to the mobile device and an uplink e.g. the communication from the mobile device to the network are generally independent. However in a high congestion situation the downlink can become congested before the uplink becomes congested. Then within a relatively short period of time e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes the uplink will also become congested. During the period after the downlink becomes congested and before the uplink becomes congested the network under performs and only small traffic can be carried. For example the system underperforms and even though demand for traffic is high the system can only handle minimal traffic. Thus problems can begin to occur once congestion is reached on the downlink. After both the downlink and the uplink become congested network traffic can no longer be carried.

Further once the downlink the uplink or both the uplink and the downlink become congested a recovery period is needed in order for the cell to return to a normal operation state. During the recovery period the network efficiency is poor. Generally it takes several hours for the cell to obtain its normal operation state which can result in further user dissatisfaction. Therefore the disclosed aspects can be utilized to adjust one or more parameters before network congestion occurs which can prevent network congestion and the need for the recovery period.

System can be implemented in a network e.g. base station access point sector and so forth . As previously noted although various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the aspects are not limited to a UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of explaining the various aspects.

System can include at least one memory that can store computer executable components and instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications. The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components stored in the memory . The at least one processor can be directly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s according to an aspect. Additionally or alternatively the at least one processor can be indirectly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s . For example the at least one processor can direct one or more components to perform the operations.

It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System can include a measurement component that can be configured to monitor live network performance. In an implementation the measurement component can quantify the number of radio links occurring within a certain area e.g. at a single base station at a group of base stations and so forth . For example measurement component can quantify the number of radio links occurring on a downlink on an uplink or on both the downlink and the uplink. According to an implementation the radio links can be quantified between sectors. In accordance with some implementations the radio links can be quantified between different carrier networks.

Based on the number of radio links measured an evaluation component determines whether the number of radio links satisfies a condition e.g. a first condition a radio link condition and so on with respect to the number of radio links that can be handled by the network while maintaining a certain level of performance. In an implementation the number of radio links that satisfy the condition is an upper limit of radio links which represents the maximum or near maximum number of radio links that can be supported by the system before network congestion occurs. For example the condition can be a threshold number of radio links. If the number of radio links exceeds the threshold network congestion occurs.

In some implementations in order to allow time for the system to react to a potential heavy congestion situation the upper limit of radio links can be a number that is less than the upper limit. Thus the threshold can be a set number of radio links below which network congestion occurs. For example if network congestion occurs when the number of radio links reaches about 100 radio links the threshold could be 100. However in another implementation the number of radio links could be less than 100 e.g. 95 radio links 98 radio links 82 radio links and so forth . By setting the number of radio links below the actual maximum number of supportable radio links one or more network parameters can be changed by an adjustment component prior to actual congestion occurring.

Although the radio link threshold has been described with respect to an actual number of links the threshold could be described with respect to a percentage below the maximum number of supported radio links or based on some other criteria. For example if a first measurement indicates that there are a certain number of radio links and a next second measurement indicates that the number of radio links has increased by a certain number or by a certain percentage but is under the threshold level the condition can be satisfied. For example if the first measurement indicates 20 radio links and the second measurement indicates 53 radio links the condition might be met due to how quickly the network traffic is increasing. In another example if the first measurement indicates 27 radio links and the second measurement indicates that the number of radio links has increased by 40 for example the condition can be met and one or more network parameters can be adjusted as disclosed herein. It should be understood that the numbers percentages ranges and so forth are used herein for purposes of describing the various aspects are not meant to limit the various aspects. Further it should be understood that any numbers percentages ranges and so forth are to be understood as modified in all instances by the term about. 

If the measurement component determines the number of radio links measured satisfies the condition a notification can be is sent to the adjustment component which can be configured to modify one or more network parameters. In an implementation modifications to one or more idle mode parameters can be made dynamically by adjustment component in order to maintain a radio link balance between cell carrier networks facing the same zone.

Adjustment of the parameters can be utilized to dynamically shrink the cell footprint e.g. the geographic area covered by the base station according to an implementation. In another implementation an adjustment to a received signal level defined for the cell can be increased by 3 dB. In an implementation the received signal level can be a minimum received signal level. According to another implementation a cell reselection parameter can be increased for one odd iteration or two even iteration .

In an additional or alternative implementation measurement component can be configured to measure the amount of noise on an uplink. For example measurement component can observe the noise level measurement and evaluation component can determine whether or not the noise level satisfies a condition e.g. a second condition a noise level condition and so on . For example the condition can be a maximum amount of noise that should be observed on the uplink during normal operation wherein over this amount of noise traffic is heavy and congestion can occur. In an example the measurement noise level might be analyzed to determine if it is below a threshold noise level. If the noise level is at or above the threshold noise level the adjustment component can modify parameters related to a minimum received signal level a reduction to a pilot channel power or both the minimum received signal level and the reduction to the pilot channel power.

In some implementations the radio link condition and the noise level condition are analyzed independently such that either condition can trigger adjustment of the one or more network parameters. Further if the radio link condition and or the noise level condition are not satisfied e.g. there is not yet increased or heavy use of the network resources the evaluation component can return an indication to the measurement component to continue to measure the radio links and or the noise level. In some implementations the measurement component continues to quantify the number of radio links and or noise level on a continuous basis. For example the measurement component does not discontinue measuring radio links and or noise level even if the relevant condition has been satisfied.

If monitoring occurs on a continuous basis or on a near continuous basis consideration can be given to the time range in which the radio links are occurring and or the increased noise level. For example the radio links might only be evaluated for a certain time range e.g. thirty seconds one minute three minutes and so forth and the quantified number of radio links can be automatically adjusted as the time of each radio link expires. However according to some aspects the radio links are measured based on individual measurements and a previous number of radio links are automatically discarded. For example the measurement component might take a measurement every ten seconds for example and any previous measurements are ignored.

In the case of noise measurements if there is an increase in the uplink noise level for only a limited amount of time and then a decrease occurs the condition might not be satisfied. If the adjustment component has already been triggered and modifications are being made to the one or more network parameters the evaluation component can send another signal to the adjustment component . In this case the adjustment component can determine that no further modifications should be made and or that one or more adjustments that have been made should be reversed or returned to an initial or previous setting condition.

In an implementation system can include or can access a database in which information related to a maximum number of radio links a maximum noise level and or the various network parameters are stored. It is noted that a database can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

According to an aspect a radio link RL count module can be configured to quantify the radio links . For example the radio link count module can quantify the downlink radio links the uplink radio links or both the downlink and the uplink radio links. In an implementation radio link count module can quantify the number of downlink circuit switched radio links and downlink packet switched radio links. In an additional implementation soft handover radio links are not quantified. The radio links can be quantified between sectors and or between different carrier networks. Further the radio link count module can quantify the radio links continuously almost continuously periodically intermittently or based on another criteria.

An analysis module can be configured to determine if the number of radio links quantified by the radio link count module satisfies a condition. In an implementation the analysis module can determine if the number of radio links is below a radio link threshold. For example from a downlink perspective it might be beneficial to maintain the number of radio links in the cell to below about 100 radio links which can exclude soft handover radio links. Maintaining the number of radio links below the threshold can allow users to have a good communication experience. Although an example has been provided for a threshold level of 100 radio links a different number of radio links can be utilized as an upper threshold or maximum number of radio links that can be sustained before action should be taken by an adjustment component .

If the number of radio links does not satisfy the condition with respect to the maximum number of radio links that can be adequately supported by the network e.g. the number of radio links is below a threshold as determined by the analysis module no action is taken by the adjustment component . If however the number of radio links quantified satisfies the condition with respect to the maximum number of radio links that can be adequately supported by the network as determined by the analysis module the adjustment component modifies one or more parameters. Modifications by the adjustment component can include an increase to a minimum received signal level defined for the cell a decrease to a common pilot channel received signal code power a manual nodeB restart and or turning off enhanced uplink EUL for example.

Also included in system is a noise module that can be configured to measure the amount of noise of an uplink. For example from the uplink perspective the noise floor might need to remain below a certain level in order to provide a good communication experience. In an example the noise floor might be negative 80 dBm 80 dBm . However the disclosed aspects are not limited to this noise level.

If the noise level on the uplink does not satisfy a condition with respect to a maximum amount of noise that can be present e.g. the amount of noise is below a threshold noise level no action is taken. If however the observed amount of noise satisfies a condition with respect to a maximum amount of noise that can be tolerated on the uplink the adjustment component modifies one or more parameters. As discussed above modifications by the adjustment component can include an increase to a minimum received signal level defined for the cell a decrease to a common pilot channel received signal code power a manual nodeB restart e.g. to accelerate recovery time and or turning off enhanced uplink EUL for example.

The modifications can be made by the adjustment component in order to dynamically shrink a geographic coverage area e.g. cell footprint and or to maintain control of 2G to 3G reselection. Additionally or alternatively the modifications can be made by adjustment component such that a GSM Global System for Mobile Communications network is used a backup in the situation where a UMTS network is not able to handle all traffic demands. For example the GSM network can be used as the backup network because once congestion is experienced on the 3G side there is some recovery period of several hours needed to return to a normal operation state.

According to some aspects the number of radio links and or the noise level or noise floor can be configurable. For example the downlink and uplink thresholds can be determined based on multiple analyses of high capacity events. Such analyses can occur over time and can be specific to a carrier and or to a sector or can be applied to multiple carriers and or sectors. In an implementation the uplink and downlink thresholds e.g. radio link threshold noise level threshold can be considered system limitations.

Before the high capacity anticipated event starts and or at about the same time as the high capacity unanticipated event is detected an establish module can be configured to modify various radio frequency parameters. In an implementation the radio frequency parameters initially modified by establish module can be the radio frequency parameters defined as high capacity hicap parameters in GS. These settings can include admission thresholds maximum and minimum power per radio link forward access channel common downlink channel FACH power enhanced uplink EUL settings ideal software defined radio ISDR inter frequency load sharing IFLS and so on.

In some implementations a minimum received signal level defined for the cell e.g. qRxLevMin can be initially set at negative one hundred and one 101 dBm for example. The cell footprint can be defined by the parameter qRxLevMin. Further to this implementation the minimum threshold for the signal strength measure for the common pilot channel power CPICH received signal code power RSCP for cell reselection to UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network can be initially set to negative twenty 20 for example.

The radio frequency parameters initially set by the establish module can be static wherein these parameters are changed once before the event begins or at about the same time as an unexpected event is detected and do not change for the duration of the event or until conditions return to near normal conditions . The static settings or static parameters are parameters that are used for a larger than usual amount of network traffic. In an implementation after the event a reset module can be configured to revert the parameters to an original setting e.g. a non hicap setting standard operating parameters and so on .

During the event if there are too many radio links measured e.g. the number of radio links without considering the soft handover radio links meets or exceeds a threshold level and or an uplink noise level meets or exceeds a maximum noise level a modification module can be configured to selectively adjust one or more changeable parameters. Examples of the radio frequency parameters that can be selectively adjusted by the modification module during the event can include but are not limited to a qRxLevMin a minimum FDD frequency division duplex RSCP received signal code power e.g. FDDRSCPMIN and or CPICH power for example. FDDRSCPMIN is a GSM RSCP threshold parameter that is used to prevent too many reselections between 3G to 2G and from 2G to 3G. The FDDRSCPMIN threshold parameter needs to be satisfied before cell selection can take place.

The modification module can be configured to adjust one or more of the parameters dynamically during a near congestion time period in order to prevent the network from reaching a critical point on the downlink the uplink or both the downlink and the uplink. The adjustment of the parameters can be utilized for radio shaping which is an automated solution configured to manage the network parameters to adjust the parameters appropriately in view of the network load.

According to an implementation a way to maintain the system under control e.g. avoid congestion can be to shrink a cell foot print e.g. a UMTS cell footprint . In accordance with another implementation to avoid congestion 2G to 3G reselection can be kept under control by adjustment to network parameter s . In still another implementation to avoid congestion a GSM network can be used only as a backup in the situation that a UMTS network is not able to handle all traffic demands and to use IFLS ISDR features.

If measurement component or another system component determines a number of radio links is approaching a high level a UMTS footprint defined by the parameter qRxLevMin during the event can be automatically adjusted to maintain the number of radio links per cell below a certain level such as 100 radio links for example at all times during the event. Further if the measurement component or another system component determines a noise level is too high an adjustment can be made in order to maintain the UL RSSI to below 80 dBM for example at all times during the event. Live network performance monitoring can be performed with about fifteen minute updates or at updates defined by a different interval. If the number of radio links approaches around 100 radio links and or the noise level approaches around 80 dBm an additional adjustment of parameters qRxLevMin FDDRSCPMIN and CPICH power can be made. In an implementation the adjustments can be performed utilizing a self organizing network SON solution such as through the dynamic network parameter adjustments discussed in accordance with the various embodiments.

As discussed herein the disclosed aspects can prevent a network from reaching a congestion point and can also improve network performance during a high capacity venue. The disclosed aspects can increase network efficiency improve customer experience and provide a more efficient network in terms of infrastructure and system upgrades.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that can be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be radio links associated with a pair of sectors and or carriers and the classes can be a threshold condition with respect to the number of radio links. In another example the attributes can be noise levels and the classes can be a threshold condition with respect to a tolerable amount of noise.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing mobile device usage observing network event occurrences receiving extrinsic information and so on . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to modifying one or more radio network parameters moving traffic to a backup network to relieve some traffic congestion temporarily suspending an EUL performing a restart of a NodeB and so forth. The criteria can include but is not limited to network traffic limitations active mobile device applications service provider preferences and or policies location of the mobile device location of one or more sectors and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor.

Method starts at when radio links are measured. For example the number of downlink radio links can be measured. In another example the number of uplink radio links can be measured. In still a further example the number of radio links for both the downlink and the uplink can be measured. In an implementation at the number of downlink circuit switched radio links and packet switched radio links can be measured. According to some implementations soft handover radio links are not included in the measurement.

At a determination is made whether the number of measured radio links satisfies a condition related to a maximum number of radio links. For example the determination can be whether the measured number of radio links is less than a radio link threshold. In an implementation at it can be determined whether a measured number of circuit switch radio links and packet switch radio links satisfies a condition with respect to a maximum number of circuit switch radio links and packet switch radio links. If the number of radio links is less than the radio link threshold YES method continues at with measurement of the radio links.

If the determination is that the number of radio links is equal to or more than the radio link threshold NO method continues at and one or more network parameters are adjusted. For example a minimum received signal level defined for the cell e.g. qRxLevMin can be increased for 3 dB. In another example a minimum received signal level defined for the cell can be increased for 1 odd iteration or 2 even iteration . If the minimum received signal level is more than a threshold level e.g. 75 dBm an adjustment can be made to reduce a common pilot channel power. For example the common pilot channel power can be reduced by a reduction unit per iteration up to a predefined number of iterations. In an example the reduction unit can be about 2.5 dB. In another example the predefined number of iterations can be four iterations. After the next iteration a manual nodeB restart can be considered. In an implementation an enhanced link uplink can be turned off if necessary.

In an implementation one or more network parameters can be adjusted to reduce a cell footprint in response to the measured number of circuit switch radio links and packet switch radio links satisfying the condition. According to another implementation adjustments can be made in order to maintain control of 2G to 3G reselection. According to still another implementation in a situation where a first network e.g. a UMTS network is not able to handle all traffic demands a second network e.g. a GSM network can be utilized as a backup network.

At a determination is made whether the number of measured radio links is more than a threshold level. For example the threshold level can be a maximum or near maximum number of radio links wherein if the amount of radio links goes above this number congestion can occur. In another example the threshold level can be below the maximum number of radio links e.g. a set number below a percentage below and so forth . Setting the threshold level at a lower amount can allow time for adjustments to be made in order to avoid reaching a congestion level.

If the amount of radio links counted is not more than the threshold level NO the method continues with measurement of an uplink noise level at . For example the noise level measurement can include measuring a received signal strength indicator. Further if the amount of radio links counted is not more than the threshold level method can continue at by continuing to monitor the number of radio links.

At a determination is made whether the measured noise level is less than a noise level threshold. If it is less than the noise level threshold YES method continues at with radio link measurements and or at with measurements of the uplink noise level. If the noise level is more than the threshold NO method continues at and one or more network parameters are adjusted.

For example an adjustment can be made to a minimum received signal level defined for the cell. In another example an adjustment can be made to reduce a common pilot channel power. For example the common pilot channel power can be reduced by a reduction unit e.g. about 2.5 dB per iteration up to a predefined number of iterations. After the next iteration a manual nodeB restart can be considered. In another implementation at a fifth iteration an enhanced link uplink can be turned off if necessary.

High capacity settings that can be initially set or set at substantially the same time or after a high capacity venue is discovered can be the hicap settings defined in GS. Such settings can include but are not limited to admission thresholds maximum and or minimum power per radio link FACH power EUL settings ISDR IFLS and so forth. The high capacity settings can be static settings that can be used to handle a larger than usual amount of network traffic.

Method can continue at with measurement of the number of downlink circuit switched and packet switched radio links excluding soft handover radio links . Additionally or alternatively method can continue at with measurement of an uplink noise level. For example a measurement of the received signal strength indicator can be performed at .

At a determination is made whether the measured number of radio links is less than a radio link threshold. If the measured amount is less than the threshold YES method continues at with continued measurement of the radio links. If the measured amount is more than the threshold NO method continues at with adjustment to one or more network parameters as discussed herein in order to avoid network congestion.

Additionally or alternatively a determination is made at whether the measured noise level is less than a noise level threshold. If the measured amount is less than the threshold YES method continues at with continued measurement of the noise level. If the measured amount is more than the threshold NO method continues at with adjustment s to one or more network parameters as discussed herein in order to avoid network congestion.

For example at idle mode parameters can be dynamically adjusted in order to maintain radio links balanced between cell carriers facing the same zone. In an implementation a UMTS cell footprint can be dynamically reduced and or 2G to 3G reselection can be kept under control through modification of the one or more parameters. In another example a first network can be utilized as a backup network for a second network that is approaching a congestion condition.

Method starts at when high capacity settings are initiated. For example hicap settings can be put in place as defined in GS wherein qRxLev Min is equal to 101 dBm and FDDRSCPMIN is equal to 20. The high capacity settings can be initiated before an expected high capacity event occurs and or after detection of an unexpected e.g. unexpected to the wireless network high capacity event.

At a determination is made whether face zone radio link RL counts are approximately equal per carrier across the face zone. If the radio link counts are not approximately equal per carrier across the face zone NO method continues at with an increase to a signal offset between a serving cell and a neighbor cell based on CPICH Ec No e.g. Qoffset2sn . For example the increase can be for 2 dB per iteration up to four iterations e.g. 8 dB maximum e.g. method can continue at up to four times .

If the determination at is that the radio link counts are approximately equal per carrier across the face zone YES method continues at where a determination is made whether the number of downlink circuit switched and packet switched radio links is less than a radio link threshold. If it is less than the radio link threshold YES method continues at and a determination is made whether an uplink RSSI is less than a RSSI threshold. If the determination is that the noise is less than the threshold method continues at and a determination is made whether the CPICH power is less than or equal to the initial setting.

If the determination at is that the number of downlink radio links is more than the threshold NO and or if the determination at is that the noise level is more than the threshold NO method continues at when a minimum received signal level defined for the cell e.g. qRxLevMin and a GSM FDDRSCPMIN can be increased. For example the qRxLevMin can be increased for 3 dB and the FDDRSCPMIN can be increased for one odd iteration and two even iteration .

At a determination is made whether the minimum received signal level is less than 75 dBm. If it is below 75 dBm YES method continues at with measurement of the radio links. If it is not below 75 dBM NO method continues at and the CPICH power is reduced for about 2.5 dB per CPICH iteration for up to four CPICH iterations. For example the CPICH power can be reduced up to 10 dB because after this reduction it has been observed that further decreases to the CPICH power might not be adequate to prevent the network congestion.

At a determination is made whether it is the fourth CPICH iteration. If it is not yet the fourth iteration NO method continues at with a determination whether the face zone radio link counts are approximately equal per carrier across the face zone. If the determination at is that it is the fourth iteration YES method can continue at and on a fifth iteration an enhanced uplink EUL can be turned off and method can continue at . Further at a consideration as to whether a nodeB should be restarted can be made. According to an aspect a prompt can be sent to for example a system operator. The prompt can indicate that a nodeB restart should be considered based on traffic conditions within the cell. The decision whether to restart the nodeB can be based on network parameters operating procedures policies rules and so forth.

Returning to the determination at if the determination is that the CPICH power is not equal to the initial setting YES e.g. CPICH power is initial setting method continues at with a determination whether the number of downlink radio links circuit switched and packet switched is less than the radio link threshold minus ten radio links. It the number of radio links is less than ten radio links below the radio link threshold YES at a determination is made whether the uplink noise level RSSI is less than the noise level threshold minus 5 dB. If the noise level is less than five below the threshold YES the CPICH is increased for 1 dB at and method continues at . Further if the determination at is that the number of radio links is not less than the radio link threshold minus 10 NO method continues . Additionally if the determination at is that the noise level is not less than the noise level threshold less 5 dB NO method continues at .

Returning again to the determination at if the CPICH power is equal to the initial power setting e.g. not initial power setting at a determination is made whether the qRLevMin is not equal to e.g. the initial setting. If not a determination is made at whether enhanced uplink is on. If not at enhanced uplink is turned on. If the determination at is that enhanced uplink is on YES or after the enhanced uplink is turned on at no action is required at and method continues at .

If the determination at is the qRxLevMin is not equal to the initial setting YES at a determination is made whether the number of downlink radio links circuit switched and packet switched is less ten radio links below the radio link threshold. If yes a determination is made at whether the uplink noise level is less than 5 dB below the threshold. If yes at the qRxLevMin is decreased for 3 dB and GSM FDDRSCPMIN is decreased for one odd iteration and two even iteration and method continues at . For determinations that result in a no at and or method continues at and continuous monitoring of the network performance continues in order to avoid heavy congestion.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to detect a heavy traffic condition and prevent network congestion is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM and so on. through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a PDA phone watch and so forth processor based computers systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation provided is a non transitory or tangible computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include initiating a static capacity setting for network parameters e.g. high capacity settings measuring a number of downlink radio links and measuring an uplink noise level. Soft handover radio links can be excluded from the radio link number according to an aspect. The operations can also include determining that the number of downlink radio links satisfies a radio link condition and or the uplink noise level satisfies a noise level condition. Further the operations can include increasing a received signal level parameter and a cell reselection parameter in response to the radio link condition being determined to be satisfied or in response to the noise level condition being determined to be satisfied.

According to an aspect the operations can include determining the received signal level parameters satisfies a channel power condition and reducing a common pilot channel power by about 2.5 dB per iteration for a up to a predefined number of iterations in response to the channel power condition being determined to be satisfied. Further to this aspect the operations can include deactivating uplink packet access after the predefined number of iterations.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system module and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

