---

title: Mobile device-related measures of affinity
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a request for a measure of affinity for a particular action associated with a user of the social-networking system; and determining results for each predictor function based at least in part upon a number of actions previously preformed by the user with respect to the mobile-computing device. Each predictor function calculating a likelihood the user performs one or more actions; The method also includes computing a measure of affinity associated with the user based on the results for the predictor functions; and providing the computed measure of affinity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654591&OS=09654591&RS=09654591
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09654591
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121001
---
This disclosure generally relates to mobile devices and more particularly to determining measures of affinity based on usage of a mobile device.

Mobile computing and communication devices such as cellphones personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers and mini laptops have become prevalent in recent years. Such mobile devices are often tied to a specific individual and therefore contain personal information including account information user profile information or information associated with other users. In addition mobile devices may have Internet connected applications providing interactions with content items or other users.

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions and or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host hypertext markup language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments a social networking system may be hosted on a server . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular social networking system having a particular configuration of particular components this disclosure contemplates a social networking system having any suitable configuration of any suitable components.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

Social networking system may include a number of components i.e. data storage used to store information about its users and objects represented in the social networking environment as well as the relationships among the users and objects. Social networking system may additionally include components to enable several actions to user devices of the social networking system as described below. Social graph stores the connections that each user has with other users of the social networking system . In particular embodiments social graph may also store second order connections. The connections may thus be direct or indirect. For example if user A is a first order connection of user B but not of user C and B is a first order connection of C then C is a second order connection of A on the social graph. Action store stores actions that have been performed by the users of the social networking system along with an indication of the time associated with those actions and references to any objects related to the actions. Additionally action store may store statistics for specified categories of actions. The actions recorded in action store may be farmed actions which are performed by a user in response to the social networking system providing suggested choices of actions to the user.

A predictor module is responsible for computing a set of predictor functions that predict whether a user will perform a set of corresponding actions. As discussed below each predictor function may be representative of a user s interest in a particular action associated with the predictor function. The authentication manager authenticates a user on client device as being a registered user of social networking system . The authentication manager may allow a user to log into the social networking system from any client device that has an application supporting the social networking system . The API works in conjunction with the authentication manager to validate users via the external applications. An affinity module provides a measure of affinity or relevance for a particular action derived from a combination of predictor functions for other actions. Various processes may request a measure of affinity from the affinity module. As an example and not by way of limitation the processes may include social networking system functionality such as for example newsfeed algorithms advertising targeting algorithms or friend suggestion algorithms. Other processes that request measures of affinity may be executed by one or more platform applications which are applications that operate within social networking system but may be provided by third parties other than an operator of the social networking system platform applications may include social games messaging services or any suitable application that uses the social platform provided by social networking system . Determination and use of measures of affinity are discussed in further detail in the following U.S. patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 502 757 filed on 11 Aug. 2006 titled Generating a Feed of Stories Personalized for Members of a Social Network and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 827 208 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 645 481 filed on 23 Dec. 2009 titled Selection and Presentation of Related Social Networking System Content and Advertisements U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 247 825 filed on 28 Sep. 2011 titled Instantaneous Recommendation of Social Interactions in a Social Networking System U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 976 755 filed on 22 Dec. 2010 titled Pricing Relevant Notifications Provided to a User Based on Location and Social Information and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on 23 Dec. 2010 titled Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments the processes requesting a measure of affinity for a user may include one or more external applications running on an external server . The external applications may interact with social networking system via an API. The external applications can perform various operations supported by the API such as enabling users to send each other messages through the social networking system or showing advertisements routed through the social networking system . The authentication manager of social networking system authenticates a user on client device as being a registered user of the social networking system . The authentication manager may allow a user to log into the social networking system from any client device that has an application supporting social networking system .

The social networking system may encourage users to participate more actively including by interacting with other users. There are many contexts in which the social networking system may wish to know the interests of a particular user. Generally social networking system would like to be able to make a decision about what will be most interesting to a user so that social networking system can present options to the user that are likely to cause the user to take actions in social networking system . For example the social networking system may want to know what is interesting to a user when deciding what content or stories to put in the newsfeed what advertisements a user is likely to click through when selecting advertisements to serve or which applications a user is likely to use when suggesting an application to the user. Social networking system allows users to associate themselves and establish connections with other users of social networking system . When two users become connected they are said to be connections friends contacts or associates within the context of social networking system . Generally being connected to social networking system allows connected users access to more information about each other than would otherwise be available to unconnected users. Likewise becoming connected within social networking system may allow a user greater access to communicate with another user such as by e mail internal and external to the social networking system instant message text message phone or any other communication interface. Finally being connected may allow a user access to view comment on download or endorse another user s uploaded content items. Examples of content items include but are not limited to messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages comment messages messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique an HTTP link HTML files images videos audio clips documents document edits calendar entries or events and other computer related files.

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may comprise a computer system such as a desktop computer a notebook or laptop a netbook a tablet an e book reader a global positioning system GPS device a camera a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld electronic device a mobile telephone or another similar processor based electronic device. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . In particular embodiments a client device may comprise a mobile computing device as described in .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments a mobile computing device may include various types of sensors such as for example and without limitation touch sensors disposed for example on a display of the device the back of the device and or one or more lateral edges of the device for detecting a user touching the surface of the mobile computing device e.g. using one or more fingers accelerometer for detecting whether the mobile computing device is moving and the speed of the movement thermometer for measuring the temperature change near mobile computing device proximity sensor for detecting the proximity of mobile computing device to another object e.g. a hand desk or other object light sensor for measuring the ambient light around mobile computing device imaging sensor e.g. camera for capturing digital still images and or video of objects near the personal computing device e.g. scenes people bar codes QR codes etc. location sensors e.g. GPS for determining the location e.g. in terms of latitude and longitude of the mobile electronic device sensors for detecting communication networks within close proximity e.g. near field communication NFC Bluetooth RFID infrared chemical sensors biometric sensors for biometrics based e.g. fingerprint palm vein pattern hand geometry iris retina DNA face voice olfactory authentication of user of mobile computing device etc. This disclosure contemplates a mobile electronic device including any applicable type of sensor.

In particular embodiments a sensors hub may optionally be included in mobile computing device . Sensors may be connected to sensors hub which may be a low power consuming processor that controls sensors manages power for sensors processes sensor inputs aggregates sensor data and performs certain sensor functions. In addition in particular embodiments some types of sensors may be connected to a controller . In this case sensors hub may be connected to controller which in turn is connected to sensor . Alternatively in particular embodiments there may be a sensor monitor in place of sensors hub for managing sensors .

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side personal computing device may have one or more sensors for performing biometric identification. Such sensors may be positioned on any surface of mobile computing device . In example embodiments as the user s hand touches mobile computing device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may capture the user s fingerprints or palm vein pattern. In example embodiments while a user is viewing the display of mobile computing device a camera may capture an image of the user s face to perform facial recognition. In example embodiments while a user is viewing the display of mobile computing device an infrared scanner may scan the user s iris and or retina. In example embodiments while a user is in contact or close proximity with mobile computing device chemical and or olfactory sensors may capture relevant data about a user. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a change in state with respect to the identity of the user utilizing mobile computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications mobile computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side mobile computing device may have touch sensors on the left and right sides. Optionally the mobile computing device may also have touch sensors on the back top or bottom side. Thus as the user s hand touches mobile computing device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may detect the user s fingers or palm touching mobile computing device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a change in state with respect to a user touching mobile computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications mobile computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments mobile computing device may have an accelerometer in addition to or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. Sensor data provided by the accelerometer may also be used to estimate whether a new user has picked up mobile computing device from a resting position e.g. on a table or desk display shelf or from someone s hand or from within someone s bag. When the user picks up mobile computing device and brings it in front of the user s face there may be a relatively sudden increase in the movement speed of personal computing device . This change in the mobile computing device s speed may be detected based on the sensor data supplied by the accelerometer. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the speed of the mobile device s either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications mobile computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments mobile computing device may have a gyrometer in addition or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. A gyrometer also known as a gyroscope is a device for measuring the orientation along one or more axis. In particular embodiments a gyrometer may be used to measure the orientation of mobile computing device . When mobile computing device is stored on a shelf or in the user s bag it may stay mostly in one orientation. However when the user grabs hold of mobile computing device and lifts it up and or moves it closer to bring it in front of the user s face there may be a relatively sudden change in the orientation of mobile computing device . The orientation of mobile computing device may be detected and measured by the gyrometer. If the orientation of mobile computing device has changed significantly In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant change in the orientation of mobile computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications mobile computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments mobile computing device may have a light sensor. When mobile computing device is stored in a user s pocket or case it is relatively dark around mobile computing device . On the other hand when the user brings mobile computing device out of his pocket it may be relatively bright around mobile computing device especially during day time or in well lit areas. The sensor data supplied by the light sensor may be analyzed to detect when a significant change in the ambient light level around mobile computing device occurs. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the ambient light level around mobile computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications mobile computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments mobile computing device may have a proximity sensor. The sensor data supplied by the proximity sensor may be analyzed to detect when mobile computing device is in close proximity to a specific object such as the user s hand. For example mobile computing device may have an infrared light emitting diode LED i.e. proximity sensor placed on its back side. When the user holds such a mobile device in his hand the palm of the user s hand may cover infrared LED . As a result infrared LED may detect when the user s hand is in close proximity to mobile computing device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that mobile computing device is in close proximity to the user s hand either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications mobile computing device may determine that it is being shared.

A mobile computing device may have any number of sensors of various types and these sensors may supply different types of sensor data. Different combinations of the individual types of sensor data may be used together to detect and estimate a user s current intention with respect to mobile computing device e.g. whether the user really means to take mobile computing device out of his pocket and use it . Sometimes using multiple types of sensor data in combination may yield a more accurate and thus better estimation of the user s intention with respect to mobile computing device at a given time than only using a single type of sensor data. Nevertheless it is possible to estimate the user s intention using a single type of sensor data e.g. touch sensor data .

Mobile computing device is merely an example. In practice a device may have any number of sides and this disclosure contemplates devices with any number of sides. The touch sensors may be placed on any side of a device.

In particular embodiments mobile computing device may have a proximity sensor e.g. an infrared LED placed on its back side. Proximity sensor may be able to supply sensor data for determining its proximity and thus the proximity of mobile computing device to another object.

In particular embodiments the user interface of an application may include any number of screens or displays. In particular embodiments each screen or display of the user interface may be implemented as a web page. Thus the device user may interact with the application through a series of screens or displays i.e. a series of web pages . In particular embodiments operating system is ANDROID mobile technology platform. With ANDROID there is a JAVA package called android.webkit which provides various tools for browsing the web. Among the android.webkit package there is a JAVA class called android.webkit.WebView which implements a view for displaying web pages. This class uses the WebKit rendering engine to display web pages and includes methods to navigate forward and backward through a history zoom in zoom out perform text searches and so on. In particular embodiments an application user interface may utilize ANDROID s WebView application programming interface API to display each web page of the user interface in a view implemented by the android.webkit.WebView class. Thus in particular embodiments software may include any number of web views each for displaying one or more web pages that implement the user interface of an application.

During the execution of an application the device user may interact with the application through its user interface. For example the user may provide inputs to the application in various displays e.g. web pages . Outputs of the application may be presented to the user in various displays e.g. web pages as well. In particular embodiments when the user provides an input to the application through a specific display e.g. a specific web page an event e.g. an input event may be generated by for example a web view or application user interfaces . Each input event may be forwarded to application functions or application functions may listen for input events thus generated. When application functions receive an input event the appropriate software module in application functions may be invoked to process the event. In addition specific functionalities provided by operating system and or hardware e.g. as described in B may also be invoked. For example if the event is generated as a result of the user pushing a button to take a photo with mobile computing device a corresponding image processing module may be invoked to convert the raw image data into an image file e.g. JPG or GIF and store the image file in the storage of mobile computing device . As anther example if the event is generated as a result of the user selecting an icon to compose an instant message the corresponding short message service SMS module may be invoked to enable the user to compose and send the message.

In particular embodiments when an output of the application is ready to be presented to the user an event e.g. an output event may be generated by for example a software module in application functions or operating system . Each output event may be forwarded to application user interfaces or application user interfaces may listen for output events thus generated. When application user interfaces receive an output event it may construct a web view to display a web page representing or containing the output. For example in response to the user selecting an icon to compose an instant message an output may be constructed that includes a text field that allows the user to input the message. This output may be presented to the user as a web page and displayed to the user in a web view so that the user may type into the text field the message to be sent.

The user interface of an application may be implemented using a suitable programming language e.g. HTML JAVASCRIPT or JAVA . More specifically in particular embodiments each web page that implements a screen or display of the user interface may be implemented using a suitable programming language. In particular embodiments when a web view is constructed to display a web page e.g. by application user interfaces in response to an output event the code implementing the web page is loaded into web view .

In particular embodiments applications associated with a subset of icons may store data associated with other users. As an example and not by way of limitation applications Contacts E mail Calendar Comm or Games may store data associated with other users such as for example user identification information on an online game e mail address telephone number or physical address. In particular embodiments one or more applications may store data associated with users who are part of the social graph of the user of mobile computing device . In particular embodiments one or more application may store data associated with users who are not part of the social graph of the user of mobile computing device .

The social networking system maintains a profile for each user with historical data that may provide input to one or more predictor functions. The predictor functions may predict whether a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. Actions performed by a particular user on mobile computing device may be maintained in a database or other data repository such as for example the action store of the social networking system. In particular embodiments at least part of the history of the user s actions on mobile computing device may include actions not taken in relation to the social networking system. Actions taken using mobile computing device may be correlated with data stored in mobile computing device and the data and information about the actions transmitted to and stored on the social networking system. As an example and not by way of limitation the number of telephone calls made using mobile computing device to a particular user may be correlated with other contact information e.g. physical address associated with the telephone numbers stored on mobile computing device .

The history of the user s actions on mobile computing device may be used as a signal of a user s future interest in the same actions. In some embodiments the predictor function is generated using a machine learning algorithm that is trained using the history of the user s actions on mobile computing device associated with an action. As discussed above the predictor module provides a predictor function for each of a set of actions where a predictor function may take as an input the history of the user s actions and then output a measure of the likelihood that the user will engage in the corresponding action s . In particular embodiments actions on mobile computing device may include for example actions using the telephone features of mobile computing device actions regarding accessing content through a network connection actions regarding contact information stored on mobile computing device or actions regarding applications on mobile computing device . As an example and not by way of limitation actions using the telephone features include making a telephone call receiving a telephone call declining a telephone call sending a telephone call directly to voicemail listening to a voicemail deleting a voicemail without listening to it blocking telephone calls from a particular telephone number or restricting telephone calls to certain types of telephone numbers. As another example actions regarding accessing content through a network connection may include sending content receiving content declining content indicating that received content is spam commenting on a content item or blocking content from a particular sender. As another example actions regarding contact information stored on mobile computing device may include adding the telephone number for a received telephone call to a list of contacts deleting an entry from the list of contacts or searching through the list of contacts. As another example actions regarding applications on mobile computing device may include installing an application on mobile computing device deleting an application using an application inviting a connection to perform an action through an application or playing a game. The actions described above and other suitable interactions within the context of use of mobile computing device may be recorded by social networking system and used to generate device related measures of affinity which predict the relevance of particular content to the user of mobile computing device . Particular actions taken using the mobile computing device may have additional information that may be used as part of the input to a predictor function. As an example and not by way of limitation a property associated with an action on mobile computing device may include a duration of time associated with the action a frequency with which the action is performed or other statistics associated with the action.

In some embodiments one or more of the predictor functions may use a decay factor in which the strength of the signal from the history of the user s actions on mobile computing device decays with time. Moreover different predictor functions may decay the history of the user s actions on mobile computing device at different rates. Therefore the predictor functions may decay the effect of the history of the user s actions on mobile computing device based on an understanding about how those actions may become less relevant over the passage of time. Various decay mechanisms may be used for this purpose. As an example and not by way of limitation a predictor function may be implemented as a ratio of two affine functions with numerator and denominator affine functions that use statistics of the history of the user s actions as inputs. The denominator affine function can represent a normalization of the numerator affine function. For example the number of telephone calls made by a user to a particular person may be normalized by among other statistics the number of times the user used the telephone functionality of mobile computing device .

The predictor functions may predict any number of actions or activities on mobile computing device which may be within or outside of the social networking system. For example actions or activities predicted by the predictor functions may include various types of a user s communications through mobile computing device such as messages posting of content and commenting on content various types of a user s observation actions such as viewing profiles of other connections and viewing photos and content posted by other connections and various types of coincidence information about two or more users such as being tagged in the same photograph checked in at the same location and attending the same event. A predictor function may be determined using a machine learning algorithms trained on the history of the user s actions on mobile computing device and past user responses or data farmed from users by exposing them to various options and measuring responses.

In particular embodiments the social graph of the user on the social networking system may be modified in response to information obtained from data stored or actions taken on mobile computing device . As an example and not by way of limitation contact information stored on mobile computing device may include contact information of another user who is not associated with the social graph of the user. The social networking system may modify the social graph of the user by adding a new node for the non member user in response to receiving the contact information the non member user from mobile computing device . As another example the social networking system may modify the social graph of the user by creating an edge in the social graph between the user of the social networking system and the non member user. In particular embodiments additional information associated with the actions on mobile computing device may be added to a node or edge of the social graph. As an example and not by of limitation a frequency of telephone calls between the user and another user may be added to the edge connecting the user and the other user.

A process running in the social networking system requests a measure of affinity for a particular user from the affinity module of the social networking system that implements an affinity function. Various processes may request a measure of affinity from the affinity module. For example the processes may include those that implement social networking functionality such as for example newsfeed algorithms advertisement targeting algorithms or friend suggestion algorithms. Other processes that request measures of affinity may be executed by one or more platform applications which are applications that operate within the social networking system but may be provided by third parties other than an operator of the social networking system. Platform applications may include social games messaging services and any other application that uses the social platform provided by the social networking system.

As described above an affinity function determines a measure of affinity or relevance for a particular action based on a combination of predictor functions for other actions. In particular embodiments the affinity function computes the requested measure of affinity by combining a weighted set of predictor functions where each predictor function predicts whether the user will perform a particular action. As an example and not by way of limitation the weighted predictor functions are summed linearly. As another example other methods of combining the predictor functions may be used such as for example harmonic means mean squares and geometric means. The weighting of the predictor functions used to calculate the measure of affinity may be provided by the process that requests the measure of affinity. Each process may weight the predictor functions differently to calculate the measure of affinity for a particular action such that the affinity function is tunable by the process.

Additionally multiple measures of affinity with varying weights may be computed for use by various processes in the social networking system environment for different purposes. For example in a process that provides advertisements with social endorsements from a user s friends an advertising algorithm may use the measure of affinity function to determine which of a user s friends to mention in the social endorsement or what type of actions to mention in the endorsement. In particular embodiments the measure of affinity may be used to encourage more user interaction with the social networking system and enhance the user experience. The social networking system may customize delivery of information to a viewing user executing a particular application on mobile computing device by employing algorithms to filter the raw content on the network. Content may be filtered based on measures of affinity related to the user s profile such as geographic location employer job type age music preferences interests or other attributes or device related measures of affinity as described above or based on the interests of the user with respect to another user who is related to the generated content e.g. the user who performed an action that resulted in the content or information . Social endorsement information may be used to provide social context for advertisements presented to a particular user when using particular applications executed on mobile computing device or applications not native to the social networking system. The measure of affinity may then be based on those predictor functions that indicate a level of interest the user might have in viewing the content posted by another user as well as one or more predictor functions that indicate a level of interest the user has in various actions that may be mentioned in the social endorsement.

As an example and not by way of limitation an advertising algorithm may provide relatively large weights for these predictor functions so that the resulting measure of affinity would more accurately determine which social endorsements would be more interesting to the user. The advertisement algorithm may select the social endorsement using the resultant measure of affinity thereby increasing the likelihood of a click through of the advertisement. As another example in a process for a social game application that seeks to invite connections of the user or send messages on behalf of the user a social algorithm may use the measure of affinity function to determine which of a user s connections to suggest for invitation to the game or what type of messages to send on behalf of the user. The measure of affinity for this purpose may be based on the predictor functions that show how interested the user is in viewing the content posted by the user s connections and or how often the users plays games with the user s connections in general as well as one or more predictor functions that show how interested the user is posting different types of messages. Accordingly the social algorithm would weight these predictor functions relatively high so that the resulting measure of affinity would accurately determine which connection s to suggest that the user invite and which invitations or messages would be more interesting to the viewing user and then select the invitation or message using the resulting measure of affinity. Because of the highly tunable nature of the affinity function enabled by the weighted predictor functions it can be used for a number of different purposes.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. Storage may include removable or non removable i.e. fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL SD card a SD drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

