---

title: System and method for the long range acquisition of iris images from stationary and mobile subjects
abstract: Described is a system which is capable of capturing images of the iris up to distances of 11 meters with a resolution of 150-200 pixels across the diameter. The system incorporates velocity estimation and focus tracking modules such that that images may be acquired from moving subjects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336439&OS=09336439&RS=09336439
owner: Carnegie Mellon University
number: 09336439
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121012
---
This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT application PCT US12 59884 filed Oct. 12 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 627 432 filed Oct. 12 2011.

Iris pattern based biometric systems for both surveillance and access control have been gaining popularity in recent years. Several such systems have already been deployed in highly secure checkpoints across the globe. The primary advantage of such systems is the uniqueness of iridal patterns across people. Over the years many works in scientific literature have proposed feature extraction and comparison schemes for this biometric and have reported very high recognition rates.

In all iris pattern based biometric systems a major concern is the acquisition of very well focused eye images in which relevant iris features are discernible. The acquisition process often requires significant cooperation from the subject whose eye is being imaged. For instance the subject may be required to be positioned at a pre defined location at a pre defined distance from the camera and sufficient near infra red NIR illumination must be provided for acquisition. The need for such cooperation is due to the limited capture volume of these systems. The capture volume is the volume of space in front of the image acquisition system within which the subject s iris is of acceptable quality. Once the iris of the subject is within this volume the subject typically remains in a fixed position with limited motion until the system acquires a good quality image. An example of a widely used commercial iris acquisition device is the LG IrisAccess 4000. This system uses voice prompts to direct the subject into the capture volume. In general with such systems the positioning process can seem counter intuitive for some subjects and can result in failure to acquire errors.

Other systems that have been proposed involve less cooperation from the subjects. A good example is the Iris On the Move system developed by Sarnoff Corporation. In this system iris patterns are captured while the subject walks through a portal fitted with NIR illumination panels. The subject stand off required by the system is 3 meters. This acquisition system is a fixed focus system with a reported narrow depth of field of 5 cm. Compared to traditional desktop wall mount systems such as those marketed by Panasonic LG and others this system has the advantage of an increased stand off distance and reduced level of cooperation from the subject. However iris acquisition fails if a subject s iris is not acquired through a fixed small capture volume. This system uses a modular approach to increase the height of the capture volume in which multiple cameras are stacked one above the other so that the iris can be captured irrespective of the height of the subject. The extra hardware and custom lenses increase the cost of the system.

Another category of acquisition systems involves the use of cameras which can be panned tilted and zoomed. These cameras alleviate the constraint of a fixed capture volume. These systems are based on the use of multiple cameras a first wide angle scene camera to detect the face eye in the scene and a second camera with a high magnification lens specifically aimed to resolve the fine patterns in the iris. Depth estimation is performed using a stereo camera setup. This information helps in estimating the position of the subject in 3D space and hence the focus and pan tilt settings.

Yet another system uses a commercial off the shelf pan tilt zoom camera to track the faces of subject and to acquire irises when the subject is still. The subject s irises may be acquired from stand off distances of up to 1.5 meters. This system uses a single camera setup to acquire both the face and iris from subjects of different heights. The Retica Eagle Eye system uses a scene camera a face camera and two iris cameras which account for its large form factor. The capture volume of this system is larger compared to the systems described so far yielding a 3 m 2 m 3 m capture volume with increased stand off average of 5 m .

Set forth herein is a novel long range iris acquisition system that has been designed and developed to acquire pristine quality iris images from stand off distances of up to 12 m from stationary or mobile subjects. The range of the system will be greater than those existing in the prior art. In addition as the described system uses commercial off the shelf COTS equipment the cost of the system will be relatively low compared to similar systems that employ several custom made devices.

The system also features the ability to have the illumination panel and the imaging sensor co located. This facilitates a setup that may be deployed quickly to any location without concerns about the illumination on the subject s side.

The pixel resolution of the acquired iris will consistently be greater than 150 pixels across the diameter. The system acquires both the face and the iris using a single camera. To track mobile subjects an area scan camera has been incorporated in addition to the high resolution biometric imager. The function of this camera is to track the subject during the subject s motion and to keep the face of the subject centered in the frame of the high resolution imager which captures both the face and the iris with the required resolution .

The captured iridal patterns of the subject may be compared against an existing database to determine whether the subject can be identified. For mobile subjects the system can capture acceptable iridal patterns at walking speeds of up to 0.6 m s.

The system as shown in includes commercial off the shelf hardware components which include an imaging sensor camera a high magnification telephoto lens equipped with a focus adjustment module a source of infra red lighting a pan tilt mechanism and in some embodiments a filter wheel and scan camera . The system is controlled by software running on a standard PC or other computing platform which includes components to perform focus estimation subject speed estimation focal length adjustment image acquisition and image recognition and matching.

The optics used in the system must be capable of acquiring both the face and the iris of the subject of interest with sufficient resolution. The required focal length of the lens can be calculated based on the required magnification such that for a given subject standoff distance from lens reasonable resolution across the iris can be obtained. For this system a resolution of 200 pixels across the iris is sufficient for the recognition module to be able to make an identity determination. As the typical human iris has a diameter of approximately 12 mm the magnification required may be approximated by the equation 

Where his the required image size 200 pixels and his the average size of a human iris 12 mm . To convert the required image size from pixels to millimeters we can multiply by the size of a pixel as such 200 6.45 10 mm 1.29 mm. The size of the sensor pixel is obtained from the specifications of camera used in the system described below and will vary if other hardware is chosen.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention a high resolution scanner camera with a very high pixel count is used. The Canon 5D Mark II is a suitable camera but other cameras having an equivalent pixel count could also be used. The higher pixel count ensures that both the face and iris of the subject may be acquired with the required resolution from a single captured frame. Camera has a full frame sensor with dimensions of 36 mm 24 mm. As was shown previously a lens having a focal length of 800 mm is satisfactory for the imaging requirements. Rearranging the terms in Eq. 2 we see that for a value of f 800 mm and stand off distance of D 8 m the magnification

From this value we can determine the field of view at 8 m for the given sensor size to be 32.4 cm 21.6 cm. However at D 4 m the field of view is calculated to be 14.4 cm 9.6 cm. Due to the decrease in the longer dimension of the field of view at distances closer than 4 m it becomes difficult to accommodate the entire face within a frame. As mentioned previously it is desirable to be able to acquire enrollment quality iris images with a pixel resolution of at least 200 pixels using this device. Due to this constraint as well as constraints on focal length used and the diminishing field of view at shorter stand off distances the optimal range for capturing the images is between 4 m and 8 m without a focal length extender. With the 1.4 extender previously mentioned the capture range increases to 6 m 11 m. If the pixel resolution requirements across the iris are relaxed then images may be captured from greater distances using the setup described see . The camera is preferably operated in the portrait mode so that the longer dimension of the field of view corresponds to the length of the face of the subjects.

To ensure good focus across all acquired images a software driven auto focusing device is used. The Canon Application Programming Interface API does not provide the necessary control over the auto focus hardware within the camera body. As a result in the preferred embodiment of the invention a focus adjuster is used to provide control over lens independent of the camera body. An existing RS232 lens control module manufactured by Birger Engineering was modified to fit the needs of the system. The focus adjustment routines shown as part of software in developed for the purpose of this invention include a focus measure function based on spatial gradients. The focus measure over the frame is given by the mean of the magnitude of the two dimensional gradient at every pixel position within the frame. If frepresents the focus measure over the frame I of dimension m n then 

In the case of a mobile subject the system estimates the speed of the subject using speed estimation module as the subject walks towards the system. For this purpose the subject is assumed to be moving at a constant velocity.

Referring now to the focus position of the system is set at position A at a distance Dfrom the system using focus adjustment module and focus adjuster upon initialization. As the subject approaches the system and crosses position A the system starts a timer and moves the focus position to position B at a distance D. Once the subject crosses position B and due to the constant velocity assumption the speed of the subject can be estimated and the time when the subject will pass position C can be predicted. This information is used to track the subject s focus with time.

To determine when the subject crosses both position A and position B a focus determination algorithm previously described is used. With the focal length of the lens set at any arbitrary position in our case position A or position B it is assumed that the subject crosses that position when the focusing determination algorithm returns a value which indicates optimum focus.

To perform focus tracking effectively the position of the subject is mapped onto a stepper motor focus encoder value within the Birger mount. shows a graph of distance from system in meters vs. encoder steps. These values were determined experimentally and would naturally be different for embodiments using different hardware. For purposes of explanation from this graph it can be seen that for very small variations in distance the relationship between distance and focus encoder position can be assumed to be linear. For purposes of this invention fine focus adjustment may be used to compensate for motion as the subject crosses position C.

In an alternate embodiment of the invention a laser range finder may be used to provide real time estimates of the focus position as the subject moves towards the system. In this embodiment instead of using the focus measure to determine the subject position laser range finder can be used to determine where the subject is and thus estimate the velocity of the subject. Using this velocity information combined with the subject position estimation provided by laser range finder the system can capture images as the subject moves towards the system.

Once the speed has been estimated the focal length of the lens is moved to position C where an iris image with the desired resolution may be obtained. Given the required resolution in pixels the image size hmay be estimated as in Eq. 1. Because we are using a lens with focal length f 800 mm the maximum distance from the system Dat which an iris of this resolution can be acquired may be obtained from Eqs. 1 and 2 as 

Once this is known a set of images is continuously captured while the subject moves past position C using image acquisition module . This burst capture mode may include a fine focus tracking procedure or may simply assume that a certain number of in focus images will be captured with the focus of the lens fixed at position C without making fine adjustments to the focus throughout the burst of image captures. Camera is controlled by hardware control module

In an alternate embodiment of the invention laser range finder can be used to estimate user position with respect to the system. This approach coupled with our focus measure strategy significantly reduces the lens focus adjustment time thus reducing the time that a subject remains in the required position. The focus estimation is achieved by using laser range finder to returns a coarse estimation of the subject distance from system. This distance is referred to as coarse because the subject s body will appear to be well focused but when zooming into the eye it can be observed that a fine focus must be performed to acquire enrollment quality iris images. To perform the fine focus the vicinity of the estimated focus distance is searched using the spatial gradient algorithm previously mentioned. Once the fine focus is performed control passes to the iris acquisition module of the software. Laser range finder significantly reduces the overall time required to achieve initial focus by providing us a coarse estimate of the distance to the subject as quickly as possible.

Along with the estimated subject speed this procedure also requires knowledge of the minimum time interval between two consecutive shutter activations of the imaging device. For the embodiment employing the Canon 5D Mark II this value is 5 frames per second. Given this the minimum time interval in the burst mode during which no images can be acquired i.e. between two shutter activations is 0.2 seconds. Hence the subject distance from system Dfor each consecutive frame may be determined as 

where D D. The linear mapping scheme mentioned earlier and shown in enables the conversion of this value into an equivalent focus encoder step at each consecutive frame.

In addition to the system components that have been detailed above another essential component is the face tracking component . This is necessary to keep the face of the subject within the frame of camera . A wide angle scene camera tracks the subject during the entire acquisition process from position A until the multiple high resolution images are captured at position C. The tracking is achieved by means of a standard Kalman filter implementation well known in the art. The face tracker directs the motion of pan tilt mechanism via hardware control module to keep the face of the subject centered in the frame of the high resolution sensor as the subject moves.

As is well known in the art in the irises of most subjects much of the incident light in the visible spectrum is absorbed and some is reflected off of the cornea. However most of the light in the near infra red and infra red wavelengths incident on the iris is reflected back and can be imaged by sensor . It is therefore well known in the art that imaging the iris in the infra red or near infra red wavelengths provides most of the discriminating information for an iris recognition system. For illumination in the preferred embodiment of the invention the system uses a set of four infra red IR illumination panels such as the one seen in to illuminate the iris over the entire acquisition range. One advantage of the use of such panels along with an iris recognition system is that it uses continuous IR output as against a pulsed output that is conventionally used with iris acquisition systems.

A pulsed IR source lets the device emit a larger amount of energy than is recommended for eye safety. Due to the pulsing nature of the output the net energy incident on the eye can be kept within eye safety limits. However use of a pulse IR source requires that the capture interval in the camera be matched with the pulsing frequency which cannot always be accomplished with commercial off the shelf equipment.

As the use of a standard commercially available camera to acquire face and iris images is desirable for cost reasons a continuous power output was required. As such the system uses a set of continuously on IR LEDs each of which is eye safe. By stacking a large number of such LEDs together we ensure that there is enough IR illumination incident on the subject for iris acquisition and recognition. At the same time since each LED is imaged onto a different spot on the retina of the subject the energy density at each spot remains below eye safety limits allowing the entire illumination setup to adhere to eye safety limits.

The system may optionally be fitted with a filter wheel to switch between the visible spectrum and the infra red spectrum as required. For instance for face recognition purposes it is better to use visible wavelengths of light while for iris imaging infra red wavelengths are preferred. For the visible block filter an 850 mm band pass filter can be used as most of the iris texture is clearly discernible when imaged around this wavelength. show an exemplary embodiment of the system built using the components described herein.

Once iris images have been captured they are processed by image processing module . The iris image is segmented at box and normalized at box by processes well known in the art. The image is then prepared for image matching by matching module . The pattern is encoded into a bit code at box . The bit code can then be matched at box against database of known bit codes for identified individuals to verify the identity of the subject. shows this process.

Experimental results of high resolution face and eye images captured using the described system will now be presented for both stationary and moving subjects.

A first set of experiments with this system involve a simple focus estimation and acquisition of eye images when a subject stands at an arbitrary location in front of the system. During this experiment the subject is tracked and when the subject is still the focus adjustment module sets the focus position of the lens to an appropriate value. shows an example of a face that was captured during this experiment and show images of the subject s eye cropped out from the face at stand off distances of 6 m and 7 m respectively. When compared to images acquired from known prior art systems it is seen that enrollment quality iris images can be achieved from a much greater stand off distances than with the prior art systems.

A second set of experiments was performed on mobile subjects. The images were acquired when the focus position of the lens was tracked automatically based on estimated subject speed as previously described. show iris images that were captured from a subject moving at speeds of between 0.3 m s and 0.6 m s. From analysis of experimental results it was found that approximately 40 of the images acquired as the subject passed through the capture volume at position C were in focus. This can be determined using the same focus algorithm used during the speed estimation process. As such in the preferred embodiment 10 images are captured as the subject passes position C. The remainder of the images are not suitable for iris capture because of erroneous focus settings due to minor variations in the speed of the subject and motion blur which is to be expected in a real world setting. The requirement of 10 images is not a drawback as the entire acquisition process when the subject is passing through position C takes less than two seconds.

While the invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments it should be understood that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the essential scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments but that the invention shall include all embodiments falling within the scope of the following claims. Any hardware embodiment using the method of the present invention is considered to be within the scope of the invention.

