---

title: System and method for aggressively trading a strategy in an electronic trading environment
abstract: System and method for aggressively trading a spread trading strategy in an electronic environment are provided herein. According to the example embodiments, a trader may configure the automated trading tool to trade as aggressively as possible by leaning on a price without an associated quantity. This allows a trader to possibly obtain a more profitable price as well as get filled faster. Traders submit an order for a spread and the automated trading tool calculates the quote order price based on a defined level of aggressiveness, the leaned on price, and the desired spread price. Based on the level of defined aggressiveness and the gap in the market, the automated trading tool may lean on a mildly, moderately, or extremely aggressive price.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510212&OS=08510212&RS=08510212
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08510212
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120719
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 128 382 filed May 28 2008 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 249 977 and entitled System and Method for Aggressively Trading a Strategy in an Electronic Trading Environment the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed towards aggressively trading a strategy in an electronic trading environment.

Electronic trading generally refers to a trading system that electronically matches orders by an electronic trading platform. Current examples of electronic trading platforms include the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME Globex trading system the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT e cbot and Eurex just to name a few. A trading system that matches orders electronically is also referred to herein as an electronic exchange. Exchanges like the CME Group which includes the CME and CBOT currently offer trading via open outcry in addition to electronic trading.

With respect to electronic exchanges traders connect to an electronic trading platform by way of a communication link through their client devices. Once connected traders select which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or a price. It includes but is not limited to traded events goods and or financial products such as stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the trader. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

Sometimes on their machines traders use automated or semi automated trading tools collectively hereinafter referred to as automated tools that automatically or semi automatically send orders to the exchange. Such automated tools are usually provided among other things to facilitate fast and accurate order entry. For instance an automated tool might quickly calculate one or more order parameters such as an order price or order quantity based on market conditions or some other reference condition and then automatically send an order with these parameters to an exchange for matching.

In addition to trading individual tradeable objects many traders often implement trading strategies that involve simultaneous trading of two or more tradeable objects. One such trading strategy is commonly referred to as spread trading. In general spread trading is the buying and or selling of one two or more tradeable objects one purpose of which is to capitalize on changes or movements in the relationships between the tradeable objects. The tradeable objects that are used to complete a spread are referred to as the outright markets or legs of the spread. A spread trade could involve buying tradeable objects buying and selling tradeable objects selling tradeable objects or some combination thereof.

A commercially available trading tool that facilitates the automatic trading of spreads is Autospreader from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. Once the legs of the spread are chosen and the relationship between them are defined a trader can input a desired spread price and quantity and the Autospreader will automatically work orders in the legs to achieve the desired spread or attempt to achieve the spread . The Autospreader is currently an add on tool available with X TRADER Pro which is a trading application also available from Trading Technologies International Inc. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 137 979 entitled System and Method for Performing Automatic Spread Trading filed on May 3 2002 the contents of which are fully incorporated by reference herein describes an automated spread trading tool.

Using an automated trading tool such as Autospreader a trader can input a price to buy or sell the spread and the automated trading tool will automatically work orders in the legs to achieve or attempt to achieve the trader s desired price for the spread. For instance a trader might define buying a spread as buying in leg A and selling in leg B. According to that definition if the trader inputs a desired price to buy the spread the automated trading tool will place a buy order in leg A based on the best price that a sell order could be filled at in leg B. The best price in leg B is also known as the price that the buy order in leg A is based on or the leaned on price . The leaned on price is located at the price level that has sufficient quantity available to satisfy the quantity of the order placed in leg A. If a price level does not have sufficient quantity then the automated tool leans on the next price level that does such that the risk of getting legged up is reduced. The instant that the order in leg A is filled the automated trading tool submits an offsetting hedge order to leg B at the leaned on price. However if at the time that the order in leg A is filled there is insufficient quantity available at the leaned on price then the trader may become legged up and there will be an increased likelihood that the trader s spread will fail.

As the market in leg B moves the order in leg A may be re priced to achieve the desired spread price. Re pricing an order typically involves canceling the existing order and replacing it with a new order at another price. While effective for achieving a desired spread price re pricing can result in the new order being placed at the end of an order queue corresponding to the order s new price at the electronic exchange. If the new order loses queue position then it may decrease the likelihood that the order will get filled or increase the likelihood that the trader will get legged up. 

The embodiments described herein provide a system and method for aggressively trading a spread trading strategy in an electronic trading environment. To illustrate the present invention and aspects thereof the following description including the figures and detailed description provides examples that can be used or readily modified by one of ordinary skill to generate a system or method that benefits from the teachings described and claimed herein.

In many instances spotting an opportunity in the market and capitalizing on the opportunity before a competing trader or before the market moves can separate the traders who are successful from the ones who are not. An important component in capitalizing on opportunities involves the trader quickly acting on that market information to enter an order as quickly as possible. One such way to increase the speed of an order submission is to use automated trading tools such as Autospreader Autospreader automatically submits an offsetting order once an order in the first leg is filled therefore eliminating the chance of a trader delay when submitting the order.

Additionally capitalizing on a trading opportunity may require the trader to trade more aggressively or riskier than normal. However when using the conventional method to trade spread trading strategies a trader is limited in the degree of risk to apply to each order as the conventional method attempts to eliminate the risk of getting legged up. While reducing the chance of getting legged up is extremely useful and important there may be missed opportunities for profit due to re pricing an order or only leaning on price levels that have sufficient quantity available.

According to an example embodiment the automated trading tool leans on a price without an associated quantity. One or more prices without an associated quantity are also known as a gap in the market and may present added opportunities to make a profit for the trader. By leaning on a price within a gap a trader may be able to get a more profitable price for the trading strategy.

According to the present embodiments this method allows a trader to determine a level of aggressiveness to trade a spread trading strategy when there is a gap in the market. A trader may configure the automated trading tool to trade mildly moderately or extremely aggressive. If for example a trader is mildly aggressive the automated trading tool will quote a limit order in leg A by leaning on one price level above the best bid or one price level below the best ask. If the trader is buying the spread then the automated trading tool will lean on the price level above the best bid. Similarly if the trader is selling the spread then the trading tool will lean on the price level below the best ask. This is the price where the trader believes an offsetting limit order will get filled but for a more profitable price. While there may not currently be any quantity available at the price level above the best bid or below the best ask other traders may be willing to more quickly buy at a higher price or sell at the lower price instead of waiting for the market to come to them. Additionally the offsetting order placed at the leaned on price may get filled faster as the order will be first in the order queue for that price level within the gap.

According to another example embodiment if a trader is moderately aggressive and there is more than one price level within gap in the market the automated trading tool will quote the limit order in leg A by leaning on two price levels above the best bid or below the best ask. If the trader is buying the spread then the automated trading tool will lean on two price levels above the best bid. Similarly if the trader is selling the spread then the trading tool will lean on two price levels below the best ask. This is a price level that will increase the possible profit for the trader even further than if the trader was mildly aggressive but has a greater risk of getting legged up. As previously stated while there may not currently be any quantity available at that price level other traders may be willing to more quickly buy at a higher price or sell at the lower price instead of waiting for the market to move.

According to yet another example embodiment if a trader is extremely aggressive and there is more than one price level within gap in the market the automated trading tool will quote the limit order in leg A by leaning on one price level below the best ask or one price level above the best bid. If the trader is buying the spread then the automated trading tool will lean on the price level below the best ask. Similarly if the trader is selling the spread then the trading tool will lean on the price level above the best ask. This price level provides the greatest risk and reward for the trader as there is a higher chance of the spread getting legged up but also the highest possible profit for the trader if the offsetting limit order is filled.

Other examples are provided herein. Modifications may also be made to the system and methods without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Additional features and advantages of the embodiments will be set forth in the description that follows. The features and advantages of the example embodiment may be realized and obtained through the embodiments particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features will become more fully apparent from the following description figures and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the example embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

The present invention is related to aggressively trading a spread trading strategy in an electronic trading environment. To illustrate aspects of the present invention a system and method are illustrated in example form using the drawings referred to herein. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that such examples may be quickly and readily adaptable using the teachings described herein. Aspects of the present invention are protected by the accompanying claims. Limitations from the patent specification should not be improperly incorporated into the claims unless explicitly stated or otherwise inherently known.

Regardless of the types of order execution algorithms used the electronic exchange provides market information to the subscribing client device . Market information may include data that represents just the inside market. The inside market is the lowest sell price best ask and the highest buy price best bid at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually although not necessarily provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words an exchange usually provides the total buy quantity and the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the exchange. For instance some exchanges provide market depth for all or most price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally the exchange can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information.

The computer employed as the client device generally can range from a hand held device laptop or personal computer to a larger computer such as a workstation with multiple multiprocessors. Generally the client device includes a monitor or any other output device and an input device such as a keyboard a trackball and or a two or three button mouse to support click based trading if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer employed for the client device and will be able to select an appropriate system.

The computer employed as the gateway generally can range from a personal computer to a larger or faster computer. Generally the gateway may additionally include a monitor or any other output device input device and access to a database if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will also understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer s employed for the gateway and will be able to select an appropriate system.

It should be noted that a computer system that may be employed here as a client device or a gateway generally includes a central processing unit a memory a primary and or secondary memory unit an input interface for receiving data from a communications network an input interface for receiving input signals from one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse etc. and an output interface for communications with an output device for example a monitor . A system bus or an equivalent system may provide communications between these various elements.

In general it should be understood that the devices described herein could include hardware objects developed using integrated circuit development technologies or yet via some other methods or the combination of hardware and software objects that could be ordered parameterized and connected in a software environment to implement different functions described herein. Also the hardware objects could communicate using electrical signals with states of the signals representing different data.

It should also be noted that the client device generally executes application programs resident at the client device under the control of the operating system of the client device . Also the gateway executes application programs resident at the gateway under the control of the operating system of the gateway . In other embodiments and as understood by a person skilled in the art the function of the application programs at the client device may be performed by the gateway and likewise the function of the application programs at the gateway may be performed by the client device .

The actual electronic trading system configurations are numerous and a person skilled in the art of electronic trading systems would be able to construct a suitable network configuration. For the purposes of illustration some example configurations are provided to illustrate where the elements may be physically located and how they might be connected to form an electronic trading system. These illustrations are meant to be helpful to the reader and they are not meant to be limiting. According to one example illustration the gateway device may be located at the client site along with the trading station which is usually remote from the matching process at the electronic exchange. According to this instance the trading station the gateway and the router may communicate over a local area network and the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange over a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

In another example illustration the client site may be located on the actual grounds of the electronic exchange for example in the building of the exchange . According to this instance the trading station the gateway and the router may still communicate over a local area network but the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange through another connection means besides a T1 T3 or ISDN. In yet another example illustration the gateway may be housed at or near its corresponding electronic exchange. According to this instance the client device may communicate with the gateway over a wide area network or through the use of a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

Further the gateway may be located remote from the client device and remote from the electronic exchange which might be particularly useful in systems that include interconnection of multiple trading networks. Thus one trading network might have gateway access to an electronic exchange. Then other trading networks may communicate with the trading network that has gateway access through a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

The trading system presented in provides the trader with the opportunity to trade tradeable objects listed at different electronic exchanges. To some traders there can be many advantages with a multi exchange environment. For example a trader could view market information from each tradeable object through one common visual display. As such price and quantity information from the two separate exchanges may be presented together so that the trader can view both markets simultaneously in the same window. In another example a trader can spread trade different tradeable objects listed at the different electronic exchanges.

As indicated earlier one skilled in the art of electronic trading systems will understand that the present embodiments are not limited to the particular configurations illustrated and described with respect to and and will be able to design a particular system based on the specific requirements for example by adding additional exchanges gateways client devices routers or other computers serving various functions like message handling and security . Additionally several networks like either of the networks shown in or may be linked together to communicatively access one or more electronic exchanges.

Client devices and can be computers such as a workstation desktop laptop handheld device and so forth that allow a trader to trade one or more tradeable objects that are offered at exchange s . A client device may include at least a processor and memory. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process various types of market information. The more market information is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the present invention.

Memory may include a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor unit for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage devices. Volatile media include for example dynamic memory such as main memory or random access memory RAM . Common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disks flexible disks hard disks magnetic tape punch cards CD ROM a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

When a client device receives market information or other data such as news or charting data and order related information from an exchange the received information may be displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device. However it should be understood that the information could be provided to a trader using other means such as sound. The output device can be any display device. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other type of display.

Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an exchange cancel orders change orders query an exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into a client device such as by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input device. For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. Then a client device preferably generates transaction information. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated transaction information is sent from a client device to one or more host exchanges over communication links.

In one example embodiment a client device uses software to create specialized interactive trading screens on terminals associated with them. Trading screens preferably enable traders to among other things enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screen may vary according to the specific software application being run. In addition to or in place of the interactive trading screens a client device could run automated types of trading applications.

Preferably trading application has access to market information from one or more exchanges through API or application programming interface and trading application can also forward transaction information to exchange via API . Alternatively API could be distributed so that a portion of the API rests on the trading station and a gateway or at the exchange . Additionally trading application may receive signals from input device via input device interface and can be given the ability to send signals to display device via display device interface .

Alternatively the example embodiments described herein may be a separate program from trading application but still stored in memory and executed on the trading station . In another alternative embodiment the preferred embodiments may be a program stored in memory and executed on a device other than trading station . Example devices may include a gateway or some other well known intermediary device.

According to one embodiment of an automated spread trading tool a trader can select two or more individual tradeable objects to create a synthetic spread that is sometimes referred hereinafter interchangeably as a spread . Each tradeable object may be referred to as a leg of the spread. The automatic spread trading tool preferably generates spread data based on information in the legs and based on spread setting parameters which may be configurable by a trader. The spread data may be communicated to a graphical user interface where it is displayed and where data corresponding to the legs of the spread may be displayed as well. At the client device the trader can enter orders in the spread window and the automated spread trading tool will automatically work orders in the corresponding legs to achieve or attempt to achieve because the fill of the order is not always guaranteed a desired spread.

Using let s assume that a spread order has been entered into the market. When a trader enters an order to buy or to sell the spread e.g. spread order in a synthetic market the automated spread trading tool automatically places orders in the appropriate legs to achieve or attempt to achieve the desired spread . For example to achieve synthetic spread order the automated spread trading tool may automatically enter orders . . . into the underlying legs e.g. Leg Leg . . . Leg N . The automated spread trading tool may among other things calculate the quantities and prices for the orders based on market conditions in the other legs and one or more parameters.

For example according to the conventional method to trade a spread consider if Leg Order is a buy order then the price of order may be based on the leaned on price of Leg and on the leaned on price of each leg through Leg N. In other words the price of order leans on the quantity at the corresponding price level in Leg though Leg N. Of course depending on the trading strategy the price of order might be based only on some of the legs and not on all N legs. Alternatively other trading strategies may be used to determine the price and quantities of the orders. Of course the order parameters of an order in one leg can lean on other types of market conditions in the other legs such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ a theoretical value multiple quantities such as quantities closer to the inside market or some other reference point.

At step the trader defines a spread using the automated trading tool. The spread may consist of N legs however in the examples described below the spread has been defined as a 2 legged spread.

At step the trader defines the level of aggressiveness to associate with the spread. The trader may choose a different level of aggressiveness based on for example knowledge of the market volume being traded market fluctuations or the trader s own personal choice. When a gap in the market exists the trader may choose to have the automated trading tool mildly moderately or extremely aggressively lean on a price in leg B to quote the order in leg A.

According to the example embodiments if a trader chooses to trade mildly aggressive then the automated trading tool will quote the order in leg A by leaning on one price level above the best bid or one price level below the best ask. As previously described if the trader is buying the spread then the automated trading tool will lean on the price level above the best bid. Similarly if the trader is selling the spread then the trading tool will lean on the price level below the best ask. This is the price where the offsetting order may get filled just as quickly as if it were placed at the current best bid but for a better price. While there may not currently be any quantity available at the price level above the best bid or below the best ask other traders may be willing to more quickly buy at a higher price or sell at the lower price instead of waiting for the market to move. It should be understood that both the quote order placed in leg A and the offsetting order sent to leg B are both limit orders.

According to another example embodiment the trader may choose to trade moderately aggressive if there is more than one price level within the gap in the market. In this instance the automated trading tool will quote the order in leg A by leaning on two price levels above the best bid or below the best ask. As previously discussed if the trader is buying the spread then the automated trading tool will lean on two price levels above the best bid. Similarly if the trader is selling the spread then the trading tool will lean on two price levels below the best ask. This is a price level that will further increase the possible profit for the trader but has a greater risk of getting legged up.

According to yet another example embodiment the trader may choose to trade extremely aggressive if there is more than one price level within the gap in the market. In this instance the automated trading tool will quote the order in leg A by leaning on one price level below the best ask or one price level above the best bid. As previously described if the trader is buying the spread then the automated trading tool will lean on the price level below the best ask. Similarly if the trader is selling the spread then the trading tool will lean on the price level above the best ask. This price level provides the greatest risk and reward for the trader as there is a higher chance of the spread getting legged up but also the highest possible profit for the trader if the order is filled.

Additionally the trader may modify the level of aggressiveness on the fly during a trading session. This is useful during circumstances of increased trading volume due to for example industry news being released such as unemployment data. Similarly the trader may desire to modify the level of aggressiveness based on that day s history of profits losses. If the trader has had a successful day of trading thus far he may increase the level of aggressiveness. Likewise if a trader has had an unsuccessful day of trading he may decrease the level of aggressiveness or turn off the aggressive spreading option all together.

In an additional embodiment the automated trading tool may dynamically determine the level of aggressiveness for the trader. The automated trading tool may track the trader s trading history and dynamically increase or decrease the level of aggressiveness based on for example market conditions profit loss or the amount of volume being traded.

At step the automated trading tool determines if there is a gap in the market. As previously defined a gap in the market is one or more price levels without an associated quantity. According to the example embodiments by leaning on a price in a gap a trader may be able to get a better price for the trading strategy as well as possibly get filled faster.

At step the automated trading tool has determined that there is a gap in the market. Based on how many price levels are within the gap and the defined level of aggressiveness the automated trading tool will lean on a price within the gap. According to the example embodiments if there is only one price level within the gap then regardless of the level of aggressiveness the automated trading tool will lean on that price level. In the instance that there is more than one price level in the gap then the automated trading tool will use the level of defined aggressiveness to determine which price level to lean on before quoting the order in leg A. Additionally if the trader has not defined a level of aggressiveness then the trading tool can be programmed to lean on the best bid or best ask or some other designated price s .

At step the automated trading tool has determined that there is not a gap in the market in other words the market is tight and the best bid and best ask are not separated by another price level. In this circumstance the automated trading tool will quote the order in leg A based on the best bid or best ask in leg B. If a gap in the market occurs then the automated trading tool may modify the leaned on price in leg B and may lean on a price that is more aggressive.

At step the automated trading tool evaluates the market at a later time and determines if the market has fluctuated and if an existing price gap has increased or decreased.

At step the automated trading tool modifies the leaned on price in leg B that the quote order in leg A is based on. If the gap in the market has increased then the leaned on price may be modified to be more aggressive. Similarly if the gap in the market has decreased then the leaned on price may be modified to be less aggressive.

At step the automated trading tool re prices the quote order in leg A based on the adjusted leaned on price in leg B. The quote order in leg A is re priced whenever the leaned on price in leg B changes such as when the gap in the market increases or decreases.

At step the automated trading tool has not detected a fluctuation in the market and will maintain the existing leaned on price in leg B.

It should be understood that any time the leaned on price changes in leg B the quote order in leg A will be re priced unless other automated trading tools such as slop are being applied. Accordingly slop assists the automated trading tool by regulating the automatic re pricing of orders in legs to achieve a desired spread by allowing a trader to input one ore more range of inside and outside parameters to variably control order entry. Slop is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 403 333 filed on Mar. 31 2003 and entitled System and Method for Variably Regulating Automatic Order Entry in an Electronic Trading Environment the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In the following examples the trader is buying the configured spread such that the automated tool will place a buy order in leg A and an offsetting sell order in leg B. Alternatively when the trader is selling the spread the automated trading tool would place a sell order in leg A and the offsetting buy order in leg B. Additionally a trader could configure the automated tool to place buy orders in both legs or to place sell orders in both legs.

According to the example embodiments as shown in the trader has defined a desired level of aggressiveness. To submit a quote order to leg A the automated trading tool determines which price to lean on in leg B by using the desired spread price of 0 and the trader s defined level of aggressiveness. It should be understood that the example embodiments are not limited to spread price of 0 and that any spread price may be chosen as the desired spread price by a trader.

Using the conventional method the leaned on price would be the best bid in leg B price level 98 resulting in the quote order being placed at a price level of 98 in leg A. However according to the example embodiments based on the defined level of aggressiveness the automated trading tool leans on a more aggressive price within the gap in the market. Specifically if the defined level of aggressiveness is mild then the automated trading tool leans on price level 99 in leg B shown at and a quote order is placed at a price level of 99 in leg A shown at . When the quote order is filled then an offsetting order will be sent to the electronic exchange for a price of 99. If the offsetting order is filled at the leaned on price level of 99 instead of the price of 98 the trader will make more profit or possibly get filled faster.

According to the example embodiments as shown in if the trader has defined the desired level of aggressiveness as moderate then the automated trading tool leans on the price level of 100 in leg B shown at and a quote order is placed at a price level of 100 in leg A shown at . When the quote order is filled then an offsetting order will be sent to the electronic exchange for a price of 100. If the offsetting order is filled at the leaned on price level of 100 in instead of 98 or 99 then the trader will make even more profit.

In an additional example embodiment if the trader has defined the level of aggressiveness as extreme then the automated trading tool leans on the most aggressive price level available which is 101 in leg B shown at . When the quote order in leg A shown at is filled then the offsetting order will be sent to the price level 101 in leg B shown at . Additionally if the offsetting order is filled at the leaned on price level of 101 instead of at 98 99 or 100 then the trader will make even more profit that if the level of aggressiveness was set to mild or moderate.

Alternatively it is possible that the best bid and best ask may fluctuate as the market fluctuates. If the gap in the market decreases the automated trading tool may modify the leaned on price to coincide with the gap in the market. As previously discussed it should be understood that if the leaned on price in leg B is modified then the quote order price in leg A will also be modified. For example based on if the level of aggressiveness was defined as extreme the trading tool would lean on the price level of 101 shown at . However if the market fluctuated and the gap decreased by one price level such that the price level 100 was the most aggressive price available then the automated trading tool would modify the leaned on price to 100. The quote order in leg A shown at would be re priced to a price level of 100 to coincide with the modified leaned on price in leg B.

In an additional embodiment if the trader defined the level of aggressiveness as moderate and there was for example an increase in trading volume the automated trading tool may dynamically adjust the level of aggressiveness to extreme. Using if the initial level of aggressiveness was set to moderate the leaned on price would be 100 shown at . With an increase in volume the automated trading tool may dynamically modify the leaned on the price to a price level of 101 instead of 100. The quote order in leg A shown at would be re priced to a price level of 101 as well to coincide with the modified leaned on price in leg B. Additionally if a trader recognized an increase in trading volume the trader may manually adjust the level of aggressiveness on the fly.

The above description of the example embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for aggressively trading a spread trading strategy may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

