---

title: Positive locking mechanism for rotating helicopter mount
abstract: An apparatus for rotating and locking a first longitudinal member with respect to a second longitudinal member. One end of the first longitudinal member includes a locking mechanism having a generally arcuate outer surface with a plurality of deep and shallow notches formed therein. The notches correspond to different positions of rotation of the first and second members. One end of the second longitudinal member includes a yoke rotatably connected to the locking mechanism with a pivot pin. A locking plunger in the second longitudinal member engages the notches in the locking mechanism and is translatable between fully locked and fully unlocked positions. In the fully locked position, the first and second members are not rotatable with respect to each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08800421&OS=08800421&RS=08800421
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08800421
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121128
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 659 165 filed on Jun. 13 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates in general to a rotatable mounting apparatus and in particular to a rotatable mounting apparatus for a gun.

A machine gun mount may be used to support and mount a machine gun. The machine gun may be for example an M240H machine gun. The machine gun may be mounted to or on a structure. The structure may be for example a helicopter such as a CH47 Chinook helicopter. A helicopter or other structure may include doors and windows. The machine gun mount may be used to mount the machine gun at a door or window. In a CH47 Chinook helicopter for example machine guns may be mounted at multiple locations. The multiple locations may include a door and a window.

An example of a mount that may be used with a machine gun is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 949 270 filed on Nov. 18 2010 and entitled Rotatable Gun Mount. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 949 270 has the same assignee as the instant patent application. The entire contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 949 270 are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In some cases it is desirable for a rotatable gun mount to have a greater range of movement than the mount shown in patent application Ser. No. 12 949 270. For example both inboard and outboard rotation of the gun mount may be desired. In addition a mechanism that enables faster and simpler articulation of the gun mount between multiple locking positions would be an advantage.

One aspect of the invention is an apparatus for rotating and locking a first longitudinal member with respect to a second longitudinal member. The first longitudinal member has a central axis and on one end a locking mechanism. The locking mechanism includes a through hole with a central axis that defines a pivot axis of the apparatus. The pivot axis is orthogonal to the central axis of the first longitudinal member. The locking mechanism has a generally arcuate outer surface with a plurality of notches formed therein. The plurality of notches includes deep notches and shallow notches.

The second longitudinal member has a yoke on one end. The yoke includes through holes. A pivot pin is disposed in the through hole in the locking mechanism and the through holes in the yoke to rotatably fix the first longitudinal member to the second longitudinal member. A locking plunger is disposed in the second longitudinal member and translatable between a fully locked position and a fully unlocked position. The locking plunger is biased toward the locking mechanism and includes a projection that a engages a first deep notch on the locking mechanism in the fully locked position b engages a shallow notch on the locking mechanism in a force dampening position and c does not engage the locking mechanism in the fully unlocked position.

An operating pin is inserted through the second longitudinal member and the locking plunger for translating the locking plunger between the fully locked and the fully unlocked positions. The operating pin includes a central shaft and a collar disposed around the central shaft. The collar is biased toward the second longitudinal member. An operating pin opening is formed in the second longitudinal member for receiving the operating pin. The opening includes fully locked transition and fully unlocked portions. The fully locked and fully unlocked portions are large enough to receive the collar of the operating pin. The transition portion is large enough to receive the central shaft of the operating pin but not large enough to receive the collar of the operating pin.

In one embodiment when the projection engages the first deep notch on the locking mechanism in the fully locked position the first and second longitudinal members are collinear and the collar of the operating pin is disposed in the fully locked portion of the operating pin opening in the second longitudinal member.

In some embodiments when the projection engages the shallow notch in the locking mechanism in the force dampening position the central shaft of the operating pin is disposed in the transition portion of the operating pin opening in the second longitudinal member.

The first and second longitudinal members may be arms and the first arm may include a pintle and a gun cradle fixed to the pintle.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A gun not shown may be mounted on a gun cradle . One side of the gun may interact with a spent case collector that leads to a spent case and link storage container . Container may be supported by cradle . Another side of the gun may interact with a magazine feed mechanism disposed at area . In the embodiment of a bar mounted ammunition container may supply ammunition to the gun in mount via a flexible chute . Gun cradle may be fixed to a pintle . As is known in the art gun cradle is movable in azimuth and elevation on pintle . Pintle may be fixed to and supported by a longitudinal member or arm having a central longitudinal axis X.

One end of mount may include a hinge assembly . Hinge assembly may include a mounting pin for fixing mount to a suitable bracket located on one side of an opening in a structure. Another longitudinal member or arm may be fixed to hinge assembly using for example pins and . A detailed embodiment of hinge assembly is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 949 270. The other end of mount may include a support member . Support member may be fixed to a side of the opening in the structure opposite the side where hinge assembly is fixed such that mount spans across the opening in the structure. An end of arm may include a bushing that allows end to disengage from support member and thereby allow arm to rotate in the directions I and O shown in .

Arm is rotatable with respect to arm and may be locked in various positions of relative rotation. Arm includes a locking mechanism on one end. Locking mechanism includes a through hole with a central axis that defines a pivot axis Y of arms and . Pivot axis Y is orthogonal to central axis X of arm . Locking mechanism includes a generally arcuate outer surface with a plurality of notches formed therein. The number location size and depth of notches and may vary depending on the requirements of a particular application. In the embodiment shown in notches are deep notches and notches are shallow notches. Referring to arm includes a yoke on one end. Yoke includes through holes . A pivot pin is disposed in through hole in locking mechanism and in through holes in yoke to rotatably fix arm to arm .

As shown in a locking plunger is disposed in arm and is translatable in arm between a fully locked position and a fully unlocked position . shows locking plunger in a transition position between the fully locked and fully unlocked positions. From its position in locking plunger must be translated to the left to reach the fully locked position of . Locking plunger is biased toward locking mechanism using for example a helical compression spring . The structure of locking plunger is shown in detail in . Locking plunger includes a locking projection configured to engage notches in locking mechanism . However in the fully unlocked position of locking projection is translated away from locking mechanism and does not engage any of notches .

As seen in an operating pin is inserted through arm and locking plunger . As will be described in more detail below operating pin is used to translate locking plunger between the positions shown in . As shown in operating pin includes a central shaft and a collar disposed around central shaft . Collar is biased toward arm by for example a helical compression spring . Operating pin is vertically constrained in locking plunger . A retainer which may be a collar attached to pin by a spring pin provides vertical constraint in one direction. An enlarged portion of operating pin provides vertical constraint in the other direction because the outer diameter of enlarged portion is larger than the diameter of the opening that is formed in locking plunger to receive shaft of operating pin .

Arm includes an operating pin opening for receiving collar of operating pin . Opening may be formed in a flat on arm . Opening includes fully locked transition and fully unlocked portions respectively. The fully locked and fully unlocked portions are large enough in diameter to receive collar of operating pin which is biased downwardly by spring . Transition portion is large enough to receive central shaft of operating pin but not large enough to receive collar of operating pin . Thus to move operating pin from for example fully locked portion a user lifts collar of pin upward thereby compressing spring . With collar free from fully locked portion pin may be translated to any other portion of opening . Translation of pin causes locking plunger to translate the same distance in the same direction. When collar is inserted in fully locked portion arms and cannot rotate with respect to each other. In locking plunger is translated to the right but is not yet fixed in the fully unlocked position. Upon releasing collar collar is pushed downward by spring into fully unlocked portion of opening as shown in thereby fixing the fully unlocked position of locking plunger .

The depth of the notches in arcuate outer surface of locking mechanism may be varied so that the extent of translation of locking plunger in the direction of locking mechanism also varies. And the extent of translation of locking plunger in the direction of locking mechanism affects the position of operating pin in opening . For example in the embodiment shown only notch is deep enough to enable plunger to translate far enough toward locking mechanism to insert collar in fully locked portion of opening . Thus in the positively locked position of mount projection of locking plunger is disposed in notch in arcuate outer surface of locking mechanism collar is disposed in fully locked portion of opening and arms and are essentially collinear. In arms and are essentially collinear although plunger is not shown in the fully locked position in .

Notches and are not as deep as notch and do not allow plunger to translate far enough toward locking mechanism for collar to fit into fully locked portion of opening . Notches and only allow collar to rest on flat to the right of as viewed in locking portion . In gun mount notch corresponds to an outboard position of the gun wherein arm is rotated in the direction of arrow O in . Notch corresponds to an inboard position of the gun wherein arm is rotated in the direction of arrow I in . Notches are shallower than notches and correspond to intermediate force dampening positions of mount . Of course the number depth and location of the notches in locking mechanism may be varied for a particular application.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

