---

title: Dynamic wireless transceiver selection in a wireless communication device
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods for dynamically selecting a wireless transceiver in a wireless communication device. In a particular embodiment, a method operating a wireless communication device having multiple wireless transceivers provides exchanging wireless media communications with a first communication network using a first one of the wireless transceivers. The method further provides processing a data structure of access connections and instructions to select a wireless data connection in a second communication network, wherein the instructions are associated with a wireless data service of the second communication network in the data structure, and processing one of the instructions to disable the first wireless transceiver. The method further provides exchanging additional wireless media communications with the second communication network using a second one of the wireless transceivers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08649788&OS=08649788&RS=08649788
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08649788
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120813
---
Typically a wireless device communicates with a home wireless network that is associated with the wireless device. For example the owner of the wireless device may be a customer of a specific home wireless network operator that operates the home wireless network. However in some circumstances such as the wireless device being outside the coverage area of the home wireless network the wireless device may not be able to communicate with the home wireless network. During these circumstances the wireless device may be able to communicate with visited wireless networks which are not operated by the home wireless network operator by roaming onto those networks.

In order to roam on a visited wireless network the wireless device may be provided with a preferred roaming list PRL . The PRL provides information that the wireless device uses to connect with access nodes of the visited wireless networks. The information may include communication frequencies such as pilot frequencies for the access nodes on the visited wireless networks and any other information that the wireless device needs to find register and exchange communications with an access node on a visited wireless network.

Although while the PRL provides the wireless device with the capability of exchanging communications over a visited wireless network the operator of the visited wireless network may charge the home wireless network operator for the wireless device doing so. Moreover the visited network operator may charge different fees for visited network resource usage depending on the type of visited wireless network on which the wireless device is roaming.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods for dynamically selecting a wireless transceiver in a wireless communication device. In a particular embodiment a method operating a wireless communication device having multiple wireless transceivers provides exchanging wireless media communications with a first communication network using a first one of the wireless transceivers. The method further provides processing a data structure of access connections and instructions to select a wireless data connection in a second communication network wherein the instructions are associated with a wireless data service of the second communication network in the data structure and processing one of the instructions to disable the first wireless transceiver. The method further provides exchanging additional wireless media communications with the second communication network using a second one of the wireless transceivers.

The following description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by the claims and their equivalents.

In operation wireless device includes transceivers 1 N that allow wireless device to communicate with multiple wireless communication networks. Each transceiver 1 N may include one or more amplifiers filters RF modulators signal processing circuitry antennas or other elements used for exchanging wireless communications. These transceiver elements may be shared among multiple transceivers. Each transceiver 1 N may use a different protocol in order to communicate with a different wireless network. Each of the different wireless networks may be operated by the same wireless network operator or by different wireless network operators. Moreover it is common for one wireless network operator to operate multiple wireless networks with each wireless network using a different protocol.

For example transceivers 1 2 and 3 may allow wireless device to communicate with second generation 2G third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G networks respectively. The owner of wireless device may be a customer of a home wireless network operator that operates or provides access to a wireless network of each generation. Accordingly when wireless device is exchanging communications with one of the 2G 3G or 4G networks operated by the home wireless network operator wireless device is communicating with one of the home wireless networks associated with wireless device .

In some cases at least one of the home wireless networks may not be available to wireless device and wireless device may instead be able to exchange communications with a visited wireless network that is operated by a visited wireless network operator. The visited network operator is a network operator of which the owner of wireless device is not a customer. Wireless device may exchange communications with the visited wireless network using one of the same protocols used with the home wireless networks. When communicating with one of these visited wireless networks wireless device is considered to be roaming.

Typically in order for wireless device to exchange communications with a visited wireless network the home wireless network operator maintains roaming agreements with the visited wireless network operator. These roaming agreements usually involve the home wireless network operator paying the visited wireless network operator for the resources used by wireless device and by other wireless devices that roam on the visited wireless networks from the home wireless networks. For example the visited wireless network operator may charge the home wireless network operator a monetary amount per unit of bandwidth used by a wireless device on a visited wireless network.

In many roaming agreements the usage fee varies depending on the visited network that is used. For example a usage fee for a visited 2G network may be higher than a usage fee for a visited 3G or 4G network.

A data structure of access connections and instructions is processed to select a wireless data connection in communication network wherein the instructions are associated with the wireless data service of communication network in the data structure step . While described as one data structure the access connections and the instructions may be stored separately within the data structure. For example the access connections may be part of a preferred roaming list PRL and the instructions may be stored separately though still corresponding to the information in the PRL. Alternatively the instructions may be listed in the PRL corresponding to the data service provided by a given access node.

The access connections in the data structure may provide wireless device with nearby access nodes for both communication network and communication network . As wireless device physically moves about wireless device may need to change access nodes to maintain wireless connectivity. Thus the data structure provides wireless device with access node information such as pilot signal frequencies for access nodes within the area of wireless device . The access connections may further indicate what type of network is associated with each access connection such as 2G 3G or 4G. Accordingly wireless device may select an access connection based on the data service corresponding to the wireless network type s of communication network .

The instructions in the data structure may be instructions necessary for wireless device to select a data service of communication network . Alternatively the data structure may be ordered in such a manner that wireless device selects a certain data service of communication network before selecting another as may be the case if the data structure is a PRL. The data service may be related to the type of communication networks supplied by communication network . For example one data service may correspond to a 2G network of communication network while another data service may correspond to a 3G network of communication network .

The instructions may include a command to select and use a second incident of wireless transceivers 1 N of wireless device that corresponds to the selected data service to exchange media communications. In one embodiment wireless device may default to using one of transceivers 1 N and the instructions override that default. The instructions may need to modify the media in some manner to make the media suitable for the selected data service before exchanging the media over the selected transceiver.

One of the instructions is processed to disable wireless transceiver 1 step . For example the instructions may include application programming interface API calls to an API of an operating system executing on wireless device which in turn disables wireless transceiver 1. Once wireless transceiver 1 is disabled wireless device exchanges additional wireless media communications with communication network using a second one of wireless transceivers 1 N step .

In an example processing the data structure indicates to wireless device that a data service using wireless transceiver 2 should be used to exchange communications with communication network . The instructions associated with the indicated data service instruct wireless device to disable at least transceiver 1 so that media communications can be exchanged with communication network using transceiver 2. Transceiver 1 may need to be disabled because wireless device will otherwise default to using transceiver 1 for certain types of communications.

Advantageously using transceiver 2 to access a data service on communication network may be more cost effective or otherwise beneficial than if wireless device continued to use transceiver 1 for data service on communication network .

Referring back to wireless communication device comprises Radio Frequency RF communication circuitry and one or more antennas. The RF communication circuitry forms transceivers 1 N and typically includes one or more amplifiers filters modulators and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication device may also include a user interface memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication components. Wireless communication device may be a telephone computer e book mobile Internet appliance wireless network interface card media player game console or some other wireless communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Communication networks and comprise network elements that provide communications services to wireless device through wireless access nodes. Communication networks and may comprise switches base stations Internet routers network gateways application servers computer systems communication links or some other type of communication equipment including combinations thereof.

Wireless links and use the air or space as the transport media. Wireless links and may use various protocols such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

CDMA 1xRTT transceiver allows wireless device to exchange CDMA 1xRTT communications over wireless link with either home 1 network A or visited 1 network B. EVDO transceiver allows wireless device to exchange EVDO communication over wireless link with either home EVDO network A or visited EVDO network B. LTE transceiver allows wireless device to exchange LTE communications over wireless link with either home LTE network A or visited LTE network B.

Each of wireless transceivers may be located on a single transceiver chip or may be divided among multiple transceiver chips. Similarly each transceiver may use a single antenna within wireless device to exchange communications or may use different antennas depending on carrier frequency needs of wireless networks .

Home networks A A are operated by a home wireless network operator for wireless device and visited networks B B are operated by a visited wireless network operator that provides wireless device with roaming capability. While home networks A A are shown together with visited networks B B for the purposes of illustrating that wireless device can communicate with both sets of networks it should be understood that the two sets of networks may use different base stations and provide different wireless signal coverage areas.

When home networks A A are unavailable wireless device processes a preferred roaming list PRL for wireless device to determine an access node and network type of visited networks B B to which wireless device should connect step . The PRL is ordered and contains instructions necessary for wireless device to select a visited network B B that is preferred by the home wireless network operator. A visited network may be preferred over another visited network due to the cost incurred by the home wireless network operator for wireless device s use of the visited network. PRL updates may be received periodically so that this information remains current on wireless device .

In this embodiment the PRL indicates that either visited EVDO network B and visited LTE network B should be used by wireless device . In order to force wireless device to use either visited EVDO network B and visited LTE network B the PRL includes instructions for wireless device to disable 1 transceiver . With 1 transceiver disabled wireless device must communicate using either visited EVDO network B and visited LTE network B even though wireless device may be configured to use 1 transceiver by default.

In alternative embodiments the PRL may indicate that visited EVDO network B and visited LTE network B are not available. Therefore wireless device will be instructed by the PRL to use 1 transceiver to communicate with visited 1 network B despite any preference by the home wireless network operator to the contrary.

After wireless device uses EVDO transceiver or LTE transceiver to connect with visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B a user of wireless device uses voice call application to initiate a voice call over a digital voice channel on 1xRTT step . The initiation of the voice call may be to generate an outgoing voice call or accept an incoming voice call.

Upon receiving the voice call request a determination is made as to whether visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B are available to exchange voice over Internet protocol VoIP communications or some other type of packet voice protocol step . Either network may be available if either network can provide enough wireless communication bandwidth for a VoIP call. The determination may be made by voice call application or by some other set of instructions software firmware operating system element etc. executing on wireless device . The determination may be made by making an application programming interface API call to an element of the operating system for wireless device that returns a value indicating whether visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B is capable of handling the VoIP call.

If it is determined that visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B are available to exchange VoIP communications the voice call is converted to a VoIP call or some other type of packet voice call step . Voice call application may perform the conversion itself or may rely on some other set of instructions software firmware operating system element etc. executing on wireless device . The VoIP call is then established over visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B using either EVDO transceiver or LTE transceiver step . The same or different instructions that converted the voice call to VoIP may direct the wireless device to disable other wireless transceivers that will not be used for the call. For example if visited EVDO network B selected for the call then the instructions will disable LTE transceiver in order to force the call to be established using EVDO transceiver . Alternatively the instructions may use some method other than disabling transceivers to direct the call over EVDO transceiver .

However if it is determined that visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B are not available to exchange VoIP communications then wireless device references the PRL again to determine whether visited 1 network B is available. Upon determining that visited 1 network B is available wireless device enables 1 transceiver and establishes the voice call over visited 1 network B step . The PRL may include the instructions necessary to enable 1 transceiver when visited EVDO network B or visited LTE network B are not available to exchange VoIP communications.

Advantageously converting the call to a VoIP call over EVDO or LTE when wireless device is roaming the home wireless network operator may avoid the increased cost of using the visited network operator s 1xRTT network.

In operation wireless device exchanges communications with home base station when wireless device is within the wireless signal coverage area of home base station . However when wireless device is unable to communicate with home base station then wireless device may exchange communications with visited base station on a roaming basis. Wireless device may roam on visited base station because home base station is out of signal range because home base station is malfunctioning or for any other reason that wireless device would need to use a visited wireless network.

When not roaming wireless device is able to use any of the transceivers on home base station for exchanging communications. In particular for digital voice calls wireless device exchanges voice communications over wireless link with CDMA 1xRTT transceiver . However once wireless device crosses threshold and can no longer exchange communications with home base station then wireless device exchanges communications with visited base station to maintain wireless connectivity.

To exchange communications with visited base station wireless device references a PRL stored on wireless device . The PRL provides the information necessary for wireless device to search for and exchange communications with various transceivers. The PRL is ordered in such a way as to direct wireless device to exchange communications with EVDO transceiver or LTE transceiver . Thus wireless device will search for wireless signals from either EVDO transceiver and or LTE transceiver before looking for wireless signals from 1 transceiver . Upon determining that wireless device is able to exchange communications with either or both of EVDO transceiver or LTE transceiver wireless device uses instructions included in the PRL to disable the 1 transceiver in wireless device so as to force communications over either EVDO transceiver or LTE transceiver . Alternatively the instructions in the PRL may direct wireless device to disable its 1 transceiver before wireless device searches for EVDO transceiver or LTE transceiver in order to force wireless device to search for those transceivers over 1 transceiver . In yet a further alternative the PRL may not include information necessary for wireless device to search for and exchange communications with 1 transceiver .

When exchanging voice communications with visited base station wireless device determines whether visited wireless base station is capable of supporting a VoIP call. In this example wireless device selects LTE transceiver for VoIP communications. Wireless device may have selected LTE transceiver due to increased data speed of LTE transceiver lower data bandwidth cost to the home wireless network operator for the use of LTE transceiver or for some other reason.

Wireless device registers to use LTE transceiver if wireless device had not done so already. Then wireless device is able to convert any voice call that would otherwise have been exchanged over CDMA 1xRTT transceiver to VoIP and exchange VoIP communications over LTE transceiver instead. The instructions necessary for wireless device to convert voice calls to VoIP and transfer them over LTE may be included within the PRL included with a voice call application or may be stored elsewhere in a storage system of wireless device .

Wireless communication interface comprises RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter RF modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication interface may also include a memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication device. Wireless communication interface further comprises a plurality of wireless transceivers that may use various protocols such as CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

User interface comprises components that interact with a user to receive user inputs and to present media and or information. User interface may include a speaker microphone buttons lights display screen touch screen touch pad scroll wheel communication port or some other user input output apparatus including combinations thereof. User interface may omitted in some examples.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory device . Memory device comprises a non transitory storage medium such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. Processing circuitry is typically mounted on a circuit board that may also hold memory device and portions of communication interface and user interface . Operating software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Operating software includes media exchange module and transceiver selection module . Operating software may further include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. When executed by processing circuitry operating software directs processing system to operate wireless communication device as described herein.

In particular media exchange module directs processing system to exchange wireless media communications with a first communication network using a first one of the wireless transceivers of communication interface . Transceiver selection module directs processing system to process a data structure of access connections and instructions to select a wireless data connection in a second communication network wherein the instructions are associated with a wireless data service of the second communication network in the data structure and process one of the instructions to disable the first wireless transceiver. Media exchange module further directs processing system to exchange additional wireless media communications with the second communication network using a second one of the wireless transceivers of communication interface .

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

