---

title: Solar glare hazard analysis tool on account of determined points of time
abstract: Technologies pertaining to determining when glare will be perceived by a hypothetical observer from a glare source and the intensity of glare that will be perceived by the hypothetical observer from the glare source are described herein. A first location of a potential source of solar glare is received, and a second location of the hypothetical observer is received. Based upon such locations, including respective elevations, and known positions of the sun over time, a determination as to when the hypothetical observer will perceive glare from the potential source of solar glare is made. Subsequently, an amount of irradiance entering the eye of the hypothetical observer is calculated to assess potential ocular hazards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08841592&OS=08841592&RS=08841592
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08841592
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 240 995 filed on Sep. 22 2011 and entitled MOBILE COMPUTING DEVICE CONFIGURED TO COMPUTE IRRADIANCE GLINT AND GLARE which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 106 686 filed on May 12 2011 and entitled COMPUTATION OF GLINT GLARE AND SOLAR IRRADIANCE DISTRIBUTION . The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Due to environmental concerns pertaining to the use of fossil fuels in connection with generating electric power including the non renewability of such fossil fuels and carbon emissions and other pollutants generated when fossil fuels are burned an increasing amount of research and funding has been directed towards systems that utilize renewable energy resources to generate power. These systems include solar power plants wind turbines geothermal power systems and the like. An exemplary solar power system is a solar power tower which can also be referred to as a central tower power plant a heliostat power plant or a power tower . A solar power tower utilizes an elevated central receiver to collect focused solar radiation from a plurality of reflectors such as heliostats mirrors . Solar radiation is reflected from the reflectors and concentrated at the central receiver where a fluid is heated. The heating of the fluid can cause a turbine to be driven to generate electric power. Another exemplary solar power system includes arrays of photovoltaic modules that are configured to convert solar radiation to electric energy. Photovoltaic modules are often installed on rooftops of structures and in some installations include numerous modules such that a field of photovoltaic modules is employed to generate electric energy.

It is recognized that mirrors and photovoltaic modules are composed of reflective materials such that solar radiation that impacts these devices reflects therefrom potentially directing the irradiance to an eye of a human being. In some instances irradiance perceived by an observer can be sufficient to for example temporarily or permanently impair vision of the observer which can further lead to undesired consequences. For example it is undesirable to impair the vision of a motorist airplane pilot or the like. When designing buildings solar power installations etc. it is therefore desirable to take into consideration potential hazards of glint and glare wherein glint can be defined as a momentary flash of light while glare can be defined as a more continuous source of excessive brightness relative to ambient lighting.

Conventionally to assess potential glare hazards consultants analyze the geometry of the proposed solar installation system relative to key observation points. Regions where glare can occur at various times throughout the year are analyzed but no indication of the intensity of glint or glare and their potential ocular impact are provided. In addition the Sun is treated as a collimated light source laser beam with no spreading of the light rays caused by either the size of the Sun or from surface scattering during reflection.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to assessment of potential glare hazard perceived by a hypothetical observer wherein the potential glare hazard is caused by a potential source of solar glare. The potential source of glare may be for example a solar power installation or a proposed solar power installation and can include a photovoltaic module a mirror glass or a solar thermal receiver. In another exemplary embodiment the potential source of glare may be a proposed building that includes reflective material such as glass.

With more specificity first location data that is indicative of a first geographic location of a potential source of glare can be received. For example this first location data can be received by way of a web based interface that employs an interactive map such that a user can indicate the first geographic location of the potential source of glare by way of interaction with the interactive map. Furthermore a value that is indicative of the reflectivity of the potential source of the glare can be received wherein such value corresponds to a material from which the potential source of glare is composed. Additionally second location data that is indicative of a second geographic location of a hypothetical observer of the glare is received. Again for instance the user can employ the interactive map to relatively easily specify the second geographic location of the hypothetical observer through for instance utilization of a mouse or touch sensitive display. Additional information pertaining to the potential source of glare can also be received including but not limited to orientation azimuth angle of modules in the potential source of glare relative to a reference orientation a tilt angle of the potential source of glare relative to a reference plane elevation of the potential source of glare and subtended angle of the Sun at the first geographic location. Additionally details pertaining to the hypothetical observer can be received including for instance a travel path of the hypothetical observer e.g. along a roadway a flight path of an airplane elevation of the hypothetical observer data pertaining to the eye of the hypothetical observer e.g. pupil diameter and the like.

Moreover a range of time that is desirably considered when analyzing potential glare hazard corresponding to the potential source of solar glare can be received. Such range of time for instance can be a week a month a year etc. Through a vector based analysis points in time in the time range when the hypothetical observer at the second geographic location will perceive glare from the potential source of glare can be determined. Generally as positions of the Sun in the sky at points in time throughout the year are known tilt and orientation of the potential source of glare are known and geographic positions of the potential source of glare and the hypothetical observer respectively including elevations thereof are known a vector based analysis can be undertaken to identify points in time in the time range when the hypothetical observer will perceive glare from the potential source of glare.

Responsive to determining when the hypothetical observer will perceive glare from the potential source of glare a further analysis can be undertaken to compute intensity of the solar glare as perceived by the hypothetical observer. Such intensity can be a function of the reflectivity of the potential source of glare distance between the potential source of glare and the hypothetical observer and features of the human eye. A value that is indicative of intensity of glare perceived by the hypothetical observer is therefore indicative of an amount of solar irradiance entering the eye of the hypothetical observer at the second geographic location and is thus indicative of the potential ocular hazard for the hypothetical observer.

Subsequent to computing the values that are indicative of intensities of glare perceived by the hypothetical observer at the second geographic location at determined times that the hypothetical observer will perceive solar glare from the potential source of glare graphical data can be output that indicates to a user potential for ocular hazard at the times where glare is to be perceived. For example the graphical data can include graphical objects that are rendered to indicate whether for respective points in time a human at the location of the hypothetical observer may potentially suffer permanent eye damage after image effects or have low potential for after image effects.

Accordingly the technology described herein can be employed in connection with a proposed site for a solar installation or building or an existing solar installation to analyze potential for ocular hazard with respect to typical observer locations such as along roadways walking paths or flight paths. In an example a proposed site can be analyzed to determine if a driver on a roadway will be negatively impacted by glare from the potential source of glare. Furthermore technology described herein can pertain to outputting suggested alterations in a current configuration of a solar installation and or a proposed configuration of a solar installation. Such suggestions can be undertaken to reduce potential for ocular hazard for observers at specified locations. Still further with respect to a solar power installation an amount of energy to be harvested at the solar power installation can be predicted based upon a proposed configuration of the solar power installation and known weather patterns at the location of the proposed solar installation. A configuration of the solar installation can be automatically proposed that takes into consideration both the potential of ocular impact to observers as well as an amount of energy predicted to be harvested by the solar installation.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to analyzing potential glint glare hazards from a potential source of solar glare will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. In addition several functional block diagrams of exemplary systems are illustrated and described herein for purposes of explanation however it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

With reference now to an exemplary illustration of an observer perceiving solar glare is illustrated. The illustration comprises a potential source of solar glare . Pursuant to an example the potential source of solar glare may be a solar power installation or a portion thereof such as a mirror used in connection with a concentrating power plant a field of mirrors utilized in connection with a concentrating power plant a photovoltaic module that includes a reflective coating such as glass a solar thermal receiver that is configured to receive concentrated solar radiation etc. In another example the potential source of glare may be a structure such as a vehicle or building that is composed of reflective materials such as mirrors glass or the like. The potential source of solar glare is positioned at a first geographic location. Moreover the potential source of solar glare has some elevation above a reference plane such as ground. While the potential source of solar glare is shown in as being relatively proximate to ground it is to be understood that in some embodiments the potential source of solar glare can be positioned on top of existing structures such as parking garages buildings etc. Furthermore the potential source of solar glare has a particular configuration wherein the configuration includes a tilt angle elevation angle from a reference plane as well as an orientation azimuthal angle relative to a reference plane or direction such as North. Such orientation for instance can define a direction that panels are facing. In an exemplary embodiment the configuration of the potential source of solar glare can be static. In other embodiments the potential source of solar glare may have actuators corresponding thereto that cause the tilt angle and or orientation to change over the course of a day to track position of the Sun .

An observer is located at a second geographic location and at a particular elevation above the reference plane. As shown in radiation emitted from the Sun can impact the potential source of glare reflect therefrom and be directed towards the observer when the observer is at the second geographic location. Specifically when the Sun is at a particular position in the sky the potential source of solar glare given its location and configuration reflects at least some of the radiation towards an eye of the observer . In an example when glare is emitted from the potential source of solar glare e.g. when the radiation is reflected from the potential source of glare and directed at the eye of the observer the observer may suffer ocular impact. The ocular impact may be temporary in nature such that the observer experiences an after image effect. In some instances however the observer may suffer permanent ocular damage from the glare such as retinal burn. Accordingly it is desirable to configure the potential source of solar glare such that humans in relatively high traffic areas such as along roadways flight paths or air traffic control towers are not subjected to relatively intense glare from the potential source of solar glare .

With reference now to an exemplary system that facilitates analyzing potential ocular hazards corresponding to the potential source of glare is illustrated. The system can be a computer executable system that operates in conjunction with a computer processor and memory. For example the memory can include components of the system and such components can be executed by the processor. In other embodiments the system or portions thereof can be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit as a field programmable gate array or the like.

The system comprises a receiver component that receives input data pertaining to the potential source of glare the Sun and the hypothetical observer . The input data received by the receiver component can include but is not limited to first location data that is indicative of the first geographic location of the potential source of solar glare which can include the elevation of the potential source of solar glare second location data that is indicative of the second geographic location of the hypothetical observer of the solar glare from the potential source of solar glare a value that is indicative of reflectivity of the potential source of solar glare tilt angle elevation angle of the potential source of solar glare orientation azimuthal angle of the potential source of solar glare a slope error of the surface of the potential source of solar glare solar time Julian date and latitude to define position of the Sun elevation and azimuth data pertaining to parameters of the eye of the hypothetical observer amongst other data.

As will be described in greater detail below the receiver component can receive the input data by way of a web based user interface. Pursuant to a particular example the receiver component can receive at least a portion of the input data by way of user interaction with an interactive map. For example the user can specify latitude longitude coordinates of the potential source of solar glare and the hypothetical observer by employing a selection mechanism such as a mouse a touch sensitive display or the like to set forth an area that is to include the potential source of solar glare and to set forth the location of the hypothetical observer . For instance the user can specify the geographic location of the potential source of solar glare in latitude longitude coordinates by drawing a polygon of arbitrary shape on the interactive map. Likewise the user can specify the geographic location of the hypothetical observer by clicking a particular position in the interactive map or drawing a travel path of the hypothetical observer in the interactive map.

The system further comprises a glare identifier component that is in communication with the receiver component and identifies points in time that the hypothetical observer will observe glare from the potential source of glare when positioned at the second geographic location. The glare identifier component identifies the aforementioned points in time based at least in part upon at least a portion of the input data received by the receiver component . For example the glare identifier component can identify the points in time where the hypothetical observer will perceive glare when located at the second geographic location based at least in part upon the first location data that is indicative of the first geographic location of the potential source of glare and the second location data that is indicative of the second geographic location of the hypothetical observer .

With more specificity unit vectors can be defined wherein the unit vectors initiate at each vertex of the polygon that defines the first geographic location and are directed to the second geographic location of the hypothetical observer . These unit vectors can be referred to herein as a view vectors. Subsequently for each view vector a specular reflected vector can be calculated from a normal vector of the potential source of solar glare normal vector and each view vector thereby obtaining a specular reflected unit vector reflected view vector that corresponds to a vertex of the polygon corresponding to the respective view vector. Subsequently the glare identifier component can calculate elevation tilt angle and azimuth angle orientation of the respective reflected view vector. The glare identifier component can repeat such steps for each vertex of the polygon that defines the first geographic location of the potential source of solar glare .

Subsequently the glare identifier component can determine if the envelope created by the reflected view vectors from the vertices of the polygon encompasses a vector pointing from the source of solar glare toward the Sun sun vector at a particular time if so this would indicate the presence of glare at the location of the hypothetical observer at that time. Alternatively the sun vector and the normal vector can be used to calculate a reflected sun vector from the source of solar glare . The reflected sun vector is translated to the location of the observer and reversed pointing back toward the source of solar glare . If the reversed translated reflected sun vector intercepts the source of solar glare then glare can be observed by the observer at that particular time. The latter method can be used to indicate where glare will occur from the source of solar glare at a particular time e.g. in an animation . In an exemplary embodiment the glare identifier component can account for both the sun shape 4.7 mrad which is half the subtended angle of the Sun and beam spreading caused by the slope error of the reflective surface of the source of solar glare which causes scattering . The glare identifier component can perform such actions for multiple positions of the Sun and thus for multiple different times over the course of the defined time range.

The system further comprises an intensity computer component that receives the times that glare will be observed by the hypothetical observer at the second geographic location. Based upon the input data received by the receiver component the intensity computer component computes for each point in time identified by the glare identifier component a respective value that is indicative of intensity of the glare that will be observed by the hypothetical observer . The intensity of the perceived glare is understood herein to be a function of the retinal irradiance received at the observer location and the subtended angle size of the glare visible on the source of solar glare . As will be described in greater detail herein the intensity computer component can compute values that are indicative of respective intensities of the glare at the points in time identified by the glare identifier component based at least in part upon a reflectivity value that is indicative of reflectance of the potential source of glare . With more particularity the input data received by the receiver component can include an indication of material of the potential source of solar glare and such indication can be employed to determine a reflectivity versus incidence angle. For the incidence angle of the Sun relative to the surface normal of the potential source of solar glare the intensity computer component can calculate the reflectivity of the potential source of solar glare based upon the reflectivity versus incidence angle function that corresponds to the material of the potential source of solar glare or based upon a user specified index of refraction from Snell s Law . The intensity computer component using equations set forth below and described with respect to can determine retinal irradiance and subtended angle of the Sun image reflected by the potential source of solar glare and can subsequently determine a potential level of ocular hazard e.g. retinal burn temporary after image low potential for ocular hazard .

The system additionally comprises a display component that receives the values that are indicative of respective intensities of glare observed by the hypothetical observer at the times identified by the glare identifier component and displays graphical data on a display screen of a computing device wherein the graphical data comprises graphical objects that correspond to the respective intensity values computed by the intensity computer component . In an exemplary embodiment the display component can output a graph wherein the graph can graphically depict times over the time range that glare will be observed by the hypothetical observer at the second geographic location as well as indications of intensities corresponding to the glare at such times. For instance the graph can include graphical objects located at positions in the graph to denote times that glare will be observed by the hypothetical observer and such graphical objects can be rendered to indicate intensities of the glare observed by the hypothetical observer at the times that glare is determined to occur as well as potential ocular hazard to the hypothetical observer . For instance color of a graphical object can indicate intensity or impact of glare. In another example shape of a graphical object can indicate intensity or impact of glare observed by a particular hypothetical observer location with multiple observer locations being possible for a given analysis.

The system may further optionally include a design component that receives intensity values for glare observed by the hypothetical observer for various configurations of the potential source of solar glare and outputs a suggestion as to configuration of the potential source of solar glare . In an example a user of the system can identify the first geographic location of the potential source of solar glare but may fail to identify tilt angle and or orientation of the potential source of solar glare . The system can be configured to iterate through various configurations tilt angles and orientations to identify potential configurations that are not associated with relatively high levels of potential ocular hazard for specified observer locations. If for example the potential source of solar glare is to be positioned near an airport or highway it may be undesirable for observers along the highway to be impacted by glare from the potential source of solar glare . Accordingly the design component can identify configuration s of the potential source of solar glare that cause low levels of ocular hazard to be perceived by those traveling the highway or flying via a flight path.

The system may additionally optionally comprise an energy computer component that can predict amounts of energy to be harvested by the potential source of solar glare for differing configurations. The energy computer component can undertake such predictions based upon historic weather patterns known travel path of the Sun materials utilized in the solar power installation etc. Accordingly if the first geographic location is set forth by a user of the system the energy computer component can predict amounts of energy that can be harvested from the potential source of solar glare at various configurations of the potential source of solar glare .

The design component may then receive predictions of energy harvest from the energy computer component and can also receive corresponding glare intensity values from the intensity computer component . The design component may then undertake a cost benefit analysis and can output one or more suggestions as to configuration e.g. tilt angle orientation location of the potential source of solar glare that maximizes the overall benefit of the potential source of solar glare e.g. maximizes energy harvesting while effectively minimizing ocular hazard that may be caused by the potential source of solar glare .

With reference now to an exemplary graph that can be output by the display component is illustrated. In the exemplary graph an X axis is a specified timeframe provided to the receiver component such as a month two months a year or the like. The Y axis is time of day. The graph in the example shown in comprises a plurality of graphical objects wherein the graphical objects are located in the graph to indicate times that the hypothetical observer will perceive glare from the potential source of solar glare . The graphical objects are rendered in the graph based at least in part upon intensity values computed by the intensity computer component for the times when glare is determined to be perceived by the hypothetical observer . For example the graphical objects can be rendered to indicate a level of potential ocular hazard that may be suffered by the hypothetical observer . Therefore if a graphical object is rendered in a first color a viewer of the graph can ascertain that the potential ocular hazard for the hypothetical observer is potential for permanent eye damage. Likewise if a graphical object is rendered in a second color a viewer of the graph can ascertain that the glare at the time in graph corresponding to the graphical object may cause after image to be experienced by the hypothetical observer . Additionally if a graphical object is rendered in a third color then a viewer of the graph can ascertain that the glare from the potential source of solar glare perceived by the hypothetical observer is not likely to cause the hypothetical observer to experience an after image effect.

While color has been described herein as a manner in which to visually indicate potential level of ocular hazard of the hypothetical observer it is to be understood that the graphical objects can be rendered in other manners to differentiate between potential levels of ocular hazard as well as observation points. Furthermore the levels of ocular hazard may be continuous rather than discrete so that for example a darker shade of red would indicate a higher potential for permanent eye damage. In another example the graphical objects can be rendered to indicate a difference between predicted retinal irradiance and retinal irradiance necessary to cause temporary afterimage effects for a given subtended angle divided by the difference of the retinal irradiance required to cause retinal burn and the retinal irradiance to cause afterimage e.g. the log of each term to linearize the scale . It is to be understood that the claims are not to be limited to a particular manner in which to display graphical data that is indicative of intensity of glare observed by the hypothetical observer .

Now referring to an exemplary graphical user interface that can be employed by a user to interact with the system shown in is illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment the graphical user interface can be a web based interface such that a user can direct a web browser to a particular web page by entering a uniform resource locator URL into a field of the web browser querying a search engine and selecting a search result corresponding to the graphical user interface or other suitable manner for accessing the web based graphical user interface. In another exemplary embodiment the graphical user interface can be an interface for a stand alone application executing on a computing device.

A user of the graphical user interface can employ the interactive map to view a desired geographic region. Pursuant to an example the graphical user interface can include a query field that can receive user input that is indicative of a desired geographic region that is shown in the interactive map . For example the user can enter a name of a state a city a particular address a landmark an airport etc. into the query field and a geographic region can be displayed in the interactive map based upon the data entered into the query field . Additionally the interactive map can comprise controls that can be employed to navigate in numerous directions alter elevation from the perspective of the user of the graphical user interface zoom in and zoom out etc.

Once the desired geographic region is shown in the interactive map the user of the graphical user interface can define the first geographic location of the potential source of solar glare shown by reference numeral and the second geographic location of the hypothetical observer shown by reference numeral . In an example the user can define the first geographic region by drawing a polygon on the interactive map wherein the polygon defines boundaries of the potential source of solar glare . While in the graphical user interface the first geographic location is shown as a rectangle it is to be understood that the user can specify a polygon of any suitable shape in the interactive map through utilization of for example a mouse a touch sensitive display or the like. By drawing the polygon in the interactive map the user is specifying latitude longitude boundaries of the potential source of solar glare . Similarly the user of the graphical user interface can specify the second geographic location of the hypothetical observer by selecting a point on the interactive map . While the second geographic location is shown as a single point it is to be understood that the user of the interactive map can define a travel path of the hypothetical observer by way of clicking and or dragging a path line. The elevation of the hypothetical observer can be entered by the user or calculated by the system . As an example the elevations along a flight path on final approach to a runway can be determined if the user specifies the landing location flight path and glide slope.

The graphical user interface can additionally comprise a descriptive data field that for instance can describe selections of geographic locations made by the user. For instance the descriptive data field can identify latitude longitude coordinates of the first geographic location and the second geographic location selected by the user. Moreover the descriptive data field can set forth presumed data pertaining to the human eye wherein such data is modifiable by the user.

The graphical user interface additionally comprises a plurality of input fields . The input fields through can be configured to receive respective portions of the input data described above as being received by the receiver component . Accordingly the input fields can be configured to receive but are not limited to receiving orientation of the potential source of solar glare relative to a reference direction or plane a tilt angle of the potential source of solar glare relative to a reference plane a height of a centroid of the potential source of solar glare a time range that is desirably analyzed a slope error of the potential source of solar glare a subtended angle of the Sun a direct normal irradiance DNI value and the like. Subsequent to the user selecting the first geographic location the second geographic location and providing appropriate data into the input fields the user can select a button on the graphical user interface wherein selection of the button causes the first geographic location the second geographic location and the data in the input fields to be provided to the system . Responsive to receiving such data the system can be configured to output graphical data such as the graph shown in .

With reference now to exemplary methodologies are illustrated and described. While the methodologies are described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies may be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like. The computer readable medium may be any suitable computer readable storage device such as memory hard drive CD DVD flash drive or the like. As used herein the term computer readable medium is not intended to encompass a propagated signal.

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates displaying graphical data on a display screen of a computing device that visually depicts potential levels of ocular hazard that will be experienced by a hypothetical observer at particular points in time is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at first location data that is indicative of a first geographic location of a potential source of solar glare is received. At a value that is indicative of reflectivity of the potential source of solar glare is received. At second location data that is indicative of a second geographic location of the hypothetical observer of the solar glare is received.

At a determination is made that the hypothetical observer will perceive glare from the potential source of solar glare when the hypothetical observer is at the second geographic location at a particular point in time. Such determination can be made based at least in part upon the first location data received at the second location data received at and a position of the Sun relative to the first geographic location at the particular point in time.

At responsive to making the determination at a value that is indicative of a potential level of ocular hazard that will be experienced by the hypothetical observer at the particular point in time is computed. Pursuant to an example such value can be computed based at least in part upon reflectivity of the potential source of the solar glare.

At graphical data is displayed on a display screen of the computing device that visually depicts the potential level of ocular hazard that will be experienced by the hypothetical observer at the particular point in time. It is to be understood that acts of the methodology can be repeated for numerous points in time for instance acts can be repeated for numerous points in time. The methodology completes at .

With reference now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates outputting graphical data to a display screen of a computing device that warns a user of the computing device of a potential ocular hazard corresponding to a potential source of solar glare is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at at least one point in time that a hypothetical observer at a first geographic location will perceive glare from a potential source of glare is determined wherein the potential source of glare is at a second geographic location and has a specific configuration elevation and azimuth angles . At responsive to determining the at least one point in time a value is computed that is indicative of intensity of the glare that will be perceived by the hypothetical observer at the at least one point in time. At a determination is made regarding whether the value is above a threshold. If the value computed at is above a threshold then at graphical data is output to a display screen of a computing device that warns the user of the computing device that the configuration of the potential source of solar glare at the second geographic location potentially causes ocular damage to humans when such humans are located at the first geographic location at the at least one point in time. Again it is to be understood that one or more acts of the methodology can be repeated for different points in time. If at it is determined that the value is not above the threshold then the methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates suggesting a configuration of a reflective energy source is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a proposed location for a reflective energy source is received. Such reflective energy source may be a field of photovoltaic modules a field of mirrors used to concentrate solar radiation at a thermal collector the thermal collector or the like.

At a location of a hypothetical observer relative to the proposed location of the reflective energy source is received. At for varying configurations of the reflective energy source intensity values of glare that will be perceived by hypothetical observer are computed. As described above such intensity values can be computed for instances in time where the hypothetical observer will perceive glare from the reflective energy source.

At for the varying configurations of the reflective energy source values that are indicative of predictive energies to be harvested by the reflective energy source are computed. At a configuration of the reflective energy source is suggested based at least in part upon the intensity values of the glare and the values that are indicative of the predicted energies. The methodology completes at .

Additional details pertaining to computing the intensity values of glare are now provided. Such intensity values can be computed based upon two variables 1 the retinal irradiance and 2 the subtended angle size of a source of glare. The retinal irradiance can be calculated from the total power entering the pupil and the retinal image area. The diameter dof the image projected onto the retina assuming a circular image can be determined from the sub tended source angle which can be calculated from the source size d radial distance r between the eye and the source and the focal length of the eye f 0.017 m as follows where 1 

If the irradiance at a plane in front of the cornea E W m is known power entering the pupil can be calculated as the product of the corneal irradiance in the pupil area the daylight adjusted pupil diameter dis approximately 2 mm . The power can then be divided by the retinal image area and multiplied by a transmission coefficient 0.5 for the ocular media to account for absorption of radiation within the eye before it reaches the retina to yield the following expression for the retinal irradiance . 2 In an example retinal irradiance caused by viewing the Sun directly can be calculated using Eq. 1 and Eq. 2 with E 0.1 w cm d 0.002 m f 0.017 m 0.0094 rad and 0.5 which yields a retinal irradiance E 8 W cm. It can be noted that the retinal irradiance is higher than the irradiance at the entrance of the eye. The calculated irradiances and thresholds used to determine ocular impacts can assume a standard solar spectral distribution where the majority of the energy and short duration exposure impacts are due to radiation within the visible spectrum.

Turning briefly to a graphical illustration of potential impact of different retinal irradiances as a function of subtended source angle for short term exposures are illustrated. Three regions are shown 1 potential for permanent eye damage retinal burn 2 potential for temporary after image flash blindness and 3 low potential for temporary after image. If the retinal irradiance is sufficiently large for a given subtended source angle permanent eye damage from retinal burn may occur. It can further be noted that as the subtended source angle increases the safe retinal irradiance threshold decreases. Thus for a given retinal irradiance a larger subtended source angle can yield a larger retinal image area and can deliver a greater power to the retina that cannot be as easily dissipated from the parameter of the hot retinal image as with a smaller image area. In an exemplary embodiment graphical objects in the graph can be rendered in accordance with where in the graphical illustration intensity values represented by the respective graphical objects lie.

With reference to geometry of specular solar reflections from a focused mirror is illustrated. An analytical model of beam irradiance resulting from specular solar reflections from a point focus mirror can be derived with the following assumptions 1 uniform Sun intensity 2 round focused continuous surface mirrors 3 no cosine losses off axis aberrations or atmospheric attenuation and 4 uniform intensity in beam cross section.

These assumptions will generally produce the largest beam irradiance but the assumption of uniform Sun intensity averages the intensity over the entire beam. Using a non uniform solar intensity creates larger peak fluxes towards the center of the beam. Comparisons with a ray tracing model shows that the difference in peak fluxes about 25 to 30 at the focal length but the difference can be greater at other distances.

The beam irradiance I W cm may be calculated as the product of the direct normal irradiance Q W cm the mirror reflectivity and the area concentration ratio C as follows 3 The direct normal irradiance Q at the Earth s surface is approximately 0.1 W cm. The area concentration ratio C can be calculated as follows assuming a circular mirror area A with radius R and a circular beam area A with radius R at a distance x from the mirror . 4 

The radius R of the beam is comprised of two components 5 where Ris caused by the Sun angle and mirror contour inaccuracies slope error and Rrepresents focusing and defocusing characteristics of the beam at a distance that is less than or greater than the focal length. The beam divergence R at a distance x from the mirror is defined by the Sun half angle approximately 4.7 mrad and any additional slope errors caused by mirror inaccuracies tan 2 6 where 2 is the half angle of the total beam divergence. This approximation may have an error that is less than 0.3 for b R 18 where b is the focal length. Rcan be defined as follows 1 . 7 

Using Eqs. 4 5 6 and 7 in equation 3 and the approximation that tan 2 2 when 2 is small yields the following expression for the beam irradiance W cm 1 point focus collector 8 where D 2R. The beam irradiance can also be presented in units of Suns by dividing Eq. 8 by Q 0.1 W cm . The maximum beam irradiance occurs at the focal length x b. In addition the beam irradiance from a flat mirror can be calculated by setting b in Eq. 8 . Dis the effective diameter of the mirror which can be calculated from a total mirrored area of for example individual heliostats 4 . 9 

As defined in Eq. 3 the irradiance is proportional to the concentration ratio which is equal to the ratio of the measured irradiance at a given distance to the product of the direct normal irradiance Q and the mirror reflectivity. The concentration ratio is also equal to the area ratio of the mirror and the beam size. It follows that the relative spot size of the reflected image of the Sun and the mirror at a given distance is proportional to the measured irradiance at that location. Once the irradiance I is determined the spot size of the reflected image of the Sun and the mirror can be estimated by the following equation assuming that the spot size is proportional to the irradiance 10 where A is the area of the reflected image on the mirror as viewed by an observer at a distance x away from the mirror d is the diameter of the reflected image on the mirror is the subtended angle of the reflected Sun image on the mirror Sun angle plus slope error as observed from a prescribed distance is a beam divergence angle Sun angle plus slope error the subscript spot refers to the observed spot image on the mirror and the subscript o refers to a nominal spot image of the Sun at an irradiance of one Sun times the mirror reflectivity Q i.e. the spot size observed on a large flat mirror b D . Thus if the measure of irradiance I is greater or less than Q the observed size and subtended angle of the reflected spot image of the Sun will be greater or less than the nominal size and subtended angle of the Sun image at a location x.

Using Eq. 10 in Eqs. 1 and 2 yields the following expression for the retinal irradiance where a corneal irradiance E is set equal to irradiance I used in Eqs. 8 and 10 . 11 

It can be noted that the retinal irradiance in Eq. 11 does not depend on distance from the source assuming no atmospheric attenuation . As distance increases both the power entering the pupil and the retinal image which is proportional to the square of the subtended source angle decrease at the same rate. Therefore the retinal irradiance which is equal to the power entering the pupil divided by the retinal image area is independent of distance. The corneal irradiance however changes as a function of distance as given by Eq. 8 .

The equations derived above with respect to determining the specular beam irradiance from point focus collectors can be readily extended to line focus parabolic trough linear Fresnel collectors. The primary difference is that the concentration ratio in Eq. 4 is changed since the convergence divergence of rays caused by the shape of the line focus mirror is primarily in one dimension rather than two . 12 

The resulting irradiance from the specular reflections from a line focus collector then becomes 1 line focus collectors . 13 

Eq. 13 is similar in form to Eq. 8 for point focus collectors. However the irradiance from line focus collectors decreases less rapidly with distance past the focal point. Eq. 10 is still valid to describe the spot size of the reflected Sun image in the line focus mirror. Using Eq. 10 and 13 in Eqs. 1 and 2 then yields the same expression for the retinal irradiance as Eq. 11 for point focus collectors. The retinal irradiance is independent of distance because the retinal image area decreases at the same rate as the irradiance therefore the retinal irradiance can be constant.

An analytical model for diffuse reflections is now described. Reflections from receivers which are used to absorb the concentrated solar flux from heliostat dish and trough collector systems can be modeled as diffuse rather than specular. Calculation of the irradiance at a location resulting from diffuse reflections depends on the total flux received by the reflecting source reflectivity size and position of the source and distance to the source. First the total power Pemanating diffusely from the source is determined as follows DNI 14 where DNI is the direct normal irradiance C is the concentration ratio Eq. 4 Ais the surface area of the diffuse source and is the reflectivity of the diffuse source. For a diffuse source it can be assumed that the reflected radiance is uniform in all directions yielding the following equation for diffuse irradiance I W m as a function of radial distance r m cos 15 where the first term on the right hand side of Eq. 15 is the diffuse reflected radiance W m sr which is equal to the emissive flux P Adivided by . The radiance is multiplied by the solid angle subtended by the pupil of the eye. The radiance and solid angle are then multiplied by the ratio of the projected source area Acos and the pupil area to get the diffuse irradiance at the eye. The second term on the right hand side of Eq. 15 is a product of the solid angle and the area ratio where r is a radial distance of an observer relative to the source is the angle between the surface normal and the line of sight between the source and the observer and the pupil area cancels out. Note that as increases to 90 the visible source area and the subtended solid angle go to zero. If the irradiating source is planar then A A. The potential for different areas of the diffuse source arise when a non planar source exists such as a cylindrical external central receiver. In this case the diffuse source area A is equal to D H while the visible area A is approximately equal to D H where D is the diameter of the cylinder and H is the height. The projected area perpendicular to the line of sight is equal to Acos . Referring briefly to a graphical representation of such parameters is illustrated.

Combining Eq. 15 with Eqs. 1 and 2 can yield the following expressions for the subtended angle rad and diffuse retinal irradiance E W m where the corneal irradiance E in Eq. 2 is set to equal the diffuse irradiance I and the source size d is determined using Eq. 9 with A Acos square root over 4cos 16 4. 17 

Using the aforementioned models that illustrate that retinal irradiance can be computed and glint glare intensity is a function of the retinal irradiance and the subtended source angle the system can compute the ocular impact of glint glare emitted from a reflective entity.

Now referring to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that supports determining points in time that glare will be perceived by a hypothetical observer from a source of glare. In another example at least a portion of the computing device may be used in a system that supports computing intensity of glare. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The memory may be or include RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other suitable memory. The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store geographic coordinates glare intensity values etc.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may be or include any suitable computer readable storage including a hard disk memory etc. The data store may include executable instructions intensity values received input values from a user etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device . The computing device may also be a mobile computing device.

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

