---

title: Personalized auto-generated electronic programming guide for content delivery platforms
abstract: A personalized auto-generated electronic programming guide for content delivery platforms is presented. A method to create a personalized auto-generated electronic programming guide (EPG) for content delivery platforms is also provided. The method can include obtaining, by a computing device, user preferences for content to be scheduled for a user, the user preferences including a type of content and a preferred time to view the type of content. The method can also include identifying one or more content items of a content hosting service that satisfy the user preferences and scheduling the identified one or more content items according to the user preferences. The method can also include presenting information about the scheduled one or more content items in a personalized EPG and providing the personalized EPG for display to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984559&OS=08984559&RS=08984559
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08984559
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120611
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the field of content delivery platforms and more particularly to a personalized auto generated electronic programming guide for content delivery platforms.

On the Internet content sharing platforms allow users to upload view and share content such as video content image content audio content and so on. This shared content may include content from professional content creators e.g. movie clips TV clips and music videos as well as content from amateur content creators e.g. video blogging and short original videos. One aspect of content sharing platforms is content delivery to the end user.

Content sharing platforms typically do not provide the same end user experience for content delivery as the television broadcast medium. With the television broadcast medium end users usually get a media programming model where various professional media companies create a program guide with the content and time to broadcast already selected. The job of the end consumer of the television broadcast medium is to switch on the television and watch. This can be a simple and efficient task for end users.

However the television broadcast medium is typically a static and inflexible one way broadcast medium. As a result there is a limit to the customization and specialization that can be accomplished for an end user. For example the television broadcast medium usually cannot take into account an end user s schedule and the individual preferences of the end user.

In one embodiment a method to provide personalized auto generated electronic programming guide for content delivery platforms is presented. The method includes obtaining user preferences for content to be scheduled for a user. The user preferences can include a type of content preferred by the user and a time preferred by the user to view the type of preferred content. The method can also include identifying one or more content items of a content hosting service that satisfy the user preferences and scheduling the identified one or more content items according to the user preferences. The method can also include presenting information about the scheduled one or more content items in a personalized electronic programming guide EPG and providing the personalized EPG for display to the user.

In one embodiment the method further can include receiving access to a personal calendar of the user analyzing data representing the personal calendar of the user to determine suggestions for the user preferences and presenting a user interface UI to the user reflecting the determined suggestions for the user preferences. In addition identifying the one or more content items can further include selecting the one or more content items based on other data that is related to the user the other data including a location of the user user provided content ratings and content ratings provided by associates of the user.

Furthermore the method can include the user selecting a personalized EPG of an associate of the user to represent the user preferences or the user selecting a template of a plurality of templates to represent the user preferences. In some embodiments the personalized EPG of the associate of the user is presented as a channel in the personalized EPG of the user. The method can also include the one or more content items including video content items. The method can further include sharing the personalize EPG of the user with one or more associates of the user. In addition the method can include the one or more associates of the user being part of a social network of the user.

In additional embodiments computing devices for performing the operations of the above described embodiments are also implemented. Additionally in embodiments of the disclosure a computer readable storage media stores methods for performing the operations of the above described embodiments.

A system and method for personalized auto generated electronic programming guide for content delivery platforms are described. In some embodiments a personalized auto generated electronic programming guide EPG is created that presents content items uploaded to one or more content delivery platforms as viewing selections that satisfy user provided hints and other user context hints for various time slots in the EPG. This personalized auto generated EPG may take into account an end user s schedule and personal preferences. Although such customization can be taken into account on content sharing platforms the platforms have generally lacked the ease of programming presentation and simplicity that television broadcast mediums provide. Embodiments of the invention address these limitations.

A method to create a personalized auto generated electronic programming guide for content delivery platforms includes obtaining user preferences for content to be scheduled for a user. In one embodiment the user preferences indicate a type of preferred content and a preferred time to view the type of preferred content. The method can also include identifying one or more content items of a content hosting service that satisfy the user preferences and scheduling the identified one or more content items according to the user preferences. The method can also include presenting information about the scheduled one or more content items in a personalized EPG and providing the personalized EPG for display to the user. For example a user may give access to his her calendar to a content delivery platform which fills up relevant content for the user in a personalized EPG calendar of the user reminds the user of upcoming shows and so on.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described in this disclosure users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more aspects described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

As illustrated shared content hosting and delivery platform includes front end server an electronic programming guide EPG engine a content data store and an EPG data store . A data store may include but is not limited to a table a database a directory a repository and one or more files to name a few examples. One or more client user devices are in communication with the front end server over the network .

The client user device may be any type of computing device for example a device including a processor a computer readable medium and a memory. The client user device may be for example a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone other mobile devices etc. In some embodiments the client user device may be executing a browser application or other application adapted to communicate over Internet related protocols e.g. TCP IP and HTTP and or display a user interface. While only a single client user device is shown in system may support a large number of concurrent sessions with many client user devices .

Shared content hosting and delivery platform may operate within a single server device or on multiple server devices. For example although each of front end server EPG engine content data store and EPG data store are depicted in as single disparate components these components may be implemented together in a single device or networked in various combinations of multiple different devices that operate together. Examples of devices may include but are not limited to servers mainframe computers networked computers process based devices and similar type of systems and devices.

During operation of system a user accesses shared content hosting and delivery platform via client user device over network . The front end server receives communications from the client user device and processes and or directs these communications accordingly. In one embodiment the front end server comprises a processing device and a computer readable memory.

Front end server is communicably coupled to an EPG engine which may reside on the same machine as front end server or a different machine. EPG engine may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination of the above. In embodiments of the disclosure EPG engine accesses user content that is uploaded to system and stored in content data store to create a personalized EPG for a user of the shared content hosting and delivery platform . In embodiments of the disclosure user content includes content generated by a user or content generated by a third party and permissibly uploaded by the user. In some embodiments the content includes movie clips TV clips news sports shows etc. music videos video blogs and video shorts. In one embodiment the EPG engine notifies users of the types of information that may be stored in the content data store and EPG data store and provides the user the opportunity to opt out of having such information stored and or accessible by and or shared with the EPG engine .

In one embodiment the EPG engine includes an interface module . As part of requesting a personalized EPG the user may allow access to a personal calendar of the user. In one embodiment when the personalized EPG creation process is invoked by a user the interface module of the EPG engine sends a request e.g. via a content delivery platform component of the shared content hosting and delivery platform to the user requesting access to one or more personal calendars of the user. The personal calendars may include a third party hosted calendar that is not associated with the shared content hosting and delivery platform .

When the user provides personal calendar access permission to the EPG engine the interface module may obtain data representing the calendar schedule of the user e.g. using a calendar application programming interface API and based on this data determine available time slots in the user s schedule. In one embodiment the interface module provides an application programming interface API to interact with the user s calendar. In addition the interface module can examine a user s indicated activities during busy timeslots to determine if programming suggestions can also optionally be made during those times e.g. time earmarked as commuting or traveling etc. In one embodiment the user can schedule time on the user s calendar during which the user would like to view content. The interface module can retrieve those time slots e.g. via a calendar API and determine programming suggestions for those timeslots. Utilizing the user s calendar information the interface module works cooperatively with EPG generator of the EPG engine to create a personalized EPG template for the user.

In one embodiment the personalized EPG template is displayed to the user by interface module to enable the selection of user preferences regarding content that the user prefers to watch during various time slots as well as preferred time slots to view the type of content. For example the interface module may provide drop down menus with pre configured categories e.g. sports local news national news TV movie music etc. in each of the time slots on the EPG template. The pre configured categories can be selected by the interface module based on previous user history during the time slot. In some embodiments each pre configured category is further narrowed down through multiple levels as determined by the configuration of the EPG engine . For example the sports category can be narrowed into different sports types regions ability levels and so on. The user can select one of the pre configured categories or provide free text in the time slot to indicate a content preference of the user during the particular time slot.

In some embodiments the user also indicates via drop down menus or other input mechanisms one or more preferred time slots to view the indicated content types. The preferred time may be a specific time e.g. 7 pm or a preferred type of time e.g. morning afternoon evening commute time etc. .

For example after a user s personal calendar data is analyzed to determine free time slots an EPG template is displayed to the user that contains programming suggestions in each of the identified free time slots. The EPG template can suggest that the user watch local news between 7 30 8 30 AM every morning and watch business and international news every evening between 8 PM 8 45 PM. In addition the EPG template can suggest that because the user is commuting every weekday between 9 00 9 45 AM and 7 00 7 45 PM that these time periods be filled with funny viral videos and social content. Furthermore the EPG template can suggest that the user watch a movie on Sunday from 9 00 PM 11 30 PM. The user can modify and change the programming suggestions in each time slot based on the user s individual preferences.

In some embodiments instead of the user granting access to a personal calendar the user is able instead to download an EPG template from the shared content hosting and delivery platform . In one embodiment the template is a themed template such as a sports themed template a health themed template a world news themed template and so on. The user can then modify and change the suggested programming of the themed template including the time slots of the programming per their individual preferences. In some embodiments a user is able to import an EPG template of another user in the user s social network or elsewhere as long as the other user s permissions allow this access .

Referring to when the user has selected and submitted their content preferences in the EPG template these selections are provided as inputs to content selection module of the EPG engine . In one embodiment the input is received as data indicating times and associated content types for the particular user. The content selection module uses the input along with other hints to select personalized content from the content data store to play during each time slot. In one embodiment the other hints include data that is not explicitly provided in the user s calendar such as an Internet Protocol IP address of the user to indicate location e.g. a country or region which may determine available content in some instances previous content ratings indicated by the user content preferences of other user in a social network of the user as long as the other user s have given permission to share these preferences content that is globally popular and so on.

In one embodiment the content selection module may perform a probability based algorithm to select multiple content programs that satisfy the content type and hints for each time slot. For example the content selection module may select the top five content programs that satisfy the requirements of the particular time slot. In this way if the user rejects a content selection the next program in the returned selection list may be displayed in the user s personalized EPG. In some embodiments the content is selected from multiple backend content providers allowing for a larger selection of content for the user.

The selected content and time slot data is then passed to the EPG generator to finalize the personalized EPG for the user. In one embodiment the EPG generator obtains thumbnails and descriptions of the selected programming content for display in the personalized EPG. For full length content the EPG generator can also provide a Buy content icon for paid content or rented content.

Data representing the personalized EPG for the user can be stored in an EPG data store communicably coupled to the EPG engine . The EPG engine provides the finalized EPG for the user to a content delivery component of the shared content hosting and delivery platform which displays the personalized EPG to the user at the user s client user device . In some embodiments the EPG engine can insert relevant in stream advertisements into the selected content partner videos for high quality content etc. In further embodiments the EPG engine reminds the user of upcoming shows scheduled in his her finalized EPG.

In one embodiment if a user does not want or like a content programming suggestion of the EPG then the user can provide feedback to this effect in terms of ratings such as star ratings or thumbs up down. In some embodiments the user can dismiss a programming option provided in the EPG and a new programming selection is then displayed in the EPG e.g. from the returned list of programming selections provided by content selection module . The user can also manually select particular content programming they would prefer to watch during a time slot. This manual selection can be noted by the EPG engine for future programming preferences and personalized EPG creation.

In some embodiments the user is further able to share their personalized EPG with other users in their social network and beyond. In some embodiments the other users in the social network s of the user may be referred to as associates of the user. Similar to the user borrowing another user s EPG template as described above the user can set their configuration settings to share their own personalized EPG. In some embodiments the user is able to configure settings to allow different types of users and or social networks to see different aspects of their personalized EPG. For example the user can configure their settings to allow one subset of users to see the backend EPG template with generic categories of content while allowing a second subset of users to see the actual programming content of the personalized EPG of the user. Furthermore depending on user configuration settings other user s personalized EPG templates may be displayed in the content delivery player of the user as another channel of programming content that the user may view at each programming time slot.

In other embodiments the personalized EPGs of other users that are in a social network of the user are displayed as channels in the personalized EPG of the user. For example each social contact in a user s social network with a personalized and shared EPG may be assigned a channel in the personalized EPG of the user. The personalized EPG UI can then show individual channels in the personalized EPG UI of the user allowing the user to switch between his or her own programming and programming being watched by their contact in the social network. For example assume that a user has contacts named Bob Helen Jack in his her social network each with their own auto programmed EPG. In some embodiments the user can switch between his her own channels and the contacts channels via the personalized EPG of the user. This allows contacts in a social network to watch programs together rate similar programming comment on similar programming and so on.

For simplicity of explanation the methods are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

At decision block it is determined whether access to a personal calendar of the user has been granted. In one embodiment the EPG engine explicitly requests access to any personal calendars of the user detected on a computing device of the user or on an account of the user on the shared content hosting and delivery platform. If the user grants access to a personal calendar then at block one or more programming timeslots are determined based on the personal calendar data. For example programming timeslots may be identified at all or some free times in the user s personal calendar. At block pre configured categories specific to the user are determined based on the personal calendar data e.g. history of time slot and any other user hints e.g. user provided ratings found in the shared content hosting and delivery platform etc. . At block an EPG template is created using the determined programming time slots and the pre configured categories.

If at decision block the user does not grant access to their personal calendar s then method proceeds to block where an EPG template is obtained for the user. In one embodiment the user may be directed to a generic template datastore to select an EPG template. In one embodiment the generic EPG templates are themed to particular categories such as sports news movies most popular and so on. In some embodiments an EPG template that another user has shared is made available to the user. In other embodiments the EPG engine to uses a selected EPG template independent of whether the user has allowed access to his her personal calendar.

At block the EPG template is displayed to the user to allow the user to make modifications to the template. For example the user may change a pre configured category at one or more time slots may change programming time slots to different times and or may provide free text indicated the particular preference of the user at a time slot. Then at block the EPG template data is received from the user. At block the EPG template data is used to select content from a content data store of the shared content hosting and delivery platform. The selected content should satisfy the indicated categories of content provided in the EPG template data as well as other hints related to the user. In one embodiment the other hints optionally include an IP address of the user to indicate location e.g. a country or region which may determine available content in some instances previous content ratings indicated by the user content preferences of other users in a social network of the user if other users have given permission to share these preferences content that is globally popular sources of content to which the user has subscribed or otherwise shown a preference categories or keywords of content to which the user has subscribed or otherwise shown an interest and so on.

At block a personalized EPG is created for the user. In one embodiment the personalized EPG includes the selected content at the programming time slots along with associated brief description thumbnail image and in stream advertisements. At block the created personalized EPG is displayed to the user along with the associated selected content. In one embodiment a content delivery player of the shared content hosting and delivery platform provides the personalized EPG to the user at a device of the user.

At block configuration settings are received from the user that allow one or more subset of other users to view the personalized EPG of the user. In one embodiment the configuration settings indicate the portions of the EPG and corresponding subsets of users allowed access to the portions. For example the user may configure the settings so that a first subset of users may only view the template of the personalized EPG of the user while a second subset of users may view the template and the programmed content of the personalized EPG. In one embodiment the configuration settings are part of a privacy policy of the user which is customizable by the user.

At block one or more other personalized EPGs of other users are displayed to the user. In one embodiment each of the other users is in one or more social networks of the user and allows the user access to their personalized EPG. In one embodiment the configuration settings of each of the other users determine which portions of their personalized EPGs are viewable by the user. In one embodiment the other personalized EPGs are displayed to the user as another available channel in the personalized EPG of the user.

At block a selection is received from the user of one of the other personalized EPGs. In one embodiment the user selects the channel within the personalized EPG of the user that corresponds to the other personalized EPG of the other user. Then at block current programming content of the selected other personalized EPG is displayed to the user in the content delivery player component at the device of the user.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or a touch screen an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one embodiment the instructions include instructions for an EPG engine which may correspond to EPG engine of and or a software library containing methods that call an EPG engine. While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as segmenting analyzing determining enabling identifying modifying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. 

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

