---

title: Child restraint devices for use with seats
abstract: A child restraint device may include, in one embodiment, a base member and a back member. The back member may be foldably attached to the base member such that the base member and the back member may be folded together. The child restraint device may also include at least one back member securing belt and at least one base member securing belt. Moreover, the child restraint device may include a restraint harness disposed between the base member and the back member. The restraint harness may include an adjustable shoulder portion attached to the back member and an adjustable lap portion attached to the base member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08794709&OS=08794709&RS=08794709
owner: Kennedy Innovations LLC
number: 08794709
owner_city: Camas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121204
---
The present application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 567 471 entitled CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES FOR USE WITH SEATS filed on Dec. 6 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to child restraint devices and more particularly to child restraint devices for use with seats such as aircraft seats.

In typical aircraft seats the conventional lap belts are not ideally suited for use with toddlers and small children who for example may easily extricate themselves despite the intentions of their accompanying parent or other caretaker. Moreover existing seat safety structures cannot be conveniently constructed stored and transported to and from the aircraft seat. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a child restraint device for use with an aircraft seat that is easy to use store and transport.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the present disclosure. According to one embodiment a child restraint device is provided for use with a seat such as an aircraft seat. The seat may include a bottom portion a back portion and an associated seat belt assembly. The child restraint device may include a base member having a front end a rear end a top surface and a bottom surface. The child restraint device may also include a back member having a top end a bottom end a front surface and a rear surface. The bottom end of the back member may be foldably attached to the rear end of the base member such that the base member and the back member include a folded configuration and an unfolded configuration. The child restraint device may also include at least one back member securing belt that is attached to the back member and is configured to be fastened around the back portion of the seat. Similarly the child restraint device may include at least one base member securing belt that is attached to the base member and is configured to be fastened around the bottom portion of the seat. Moreover the child restraint device may include a restraint harness disposed between the top surface of the base member and the front surface of the back member. The restraint harness may include an adjustable shoulder portion attached to the back member and an adjustable lap portion attached to the base member. The adjustable shoulder portion and the adjustable lap portion may be releasably fastened together.

According to another embodiment a child restraint device is provided for use with a seat such as an aircraft seat. The seat may include a bottom portion a back portion and an associated seat belt assembly. The child restraint device may include a back member having a top end a bottom end a front surface a rear surface and an internal cavity. The child restraint device may also include at least one securing belt that is attached to the back member and is configured to be fastened around the back portion of the seat. Moreover the child restraint device may include a restraint harness attached to the back member. The restraint harness may include an adjustable shoulder portion attached to the top end of the front surface of the back member and an adjustable lap portion attached to the bottom end of the front portion of the back member. The adjustable shoulder portion and the adjustable lap portion may be releasably fastened together.

Other embodiments aspects and features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Illustrative embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. The present disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Devices systems and methods are disclosed herein for restraining a child within a seat such as an aircraft seat. According to at least one embodiment a child restraint device is disclosed. The child restraint device may be used in association with a seat such as an aircraft seat having a bottom portion a back portion and an associated seat belt assembly. Although the following disclosure describes the child restraint device in association with an aircraft seat it is understood that the disclosed child restraint device may be associated with a variety of types of seats including but not limited to a car seat or a booster seat.

In certain embodiments the child restraint device may include a base member having a front end a rear end a top surface and a bottom surface . The child restraint device may also include a back member having a top end a bottom end a front surface and a rear surface . The bottom end of the back member may be foldably attached to the rear end of the base member such that the base member and the back member include a folded configuration as depicted in and an unfolded configuration as depicted in . For example the base member may be attached to the back member by way of a hinge or the like. Any joint that facilitates the folding of the child restraint device from a folded configuration to an unfolded configuration may be used such as a connecting strap. That is the base member may be attached to the back member by any flexible or rotatable means.

When in the folded configuration the top surface of the base member and the front surface of the back member may abut each other. The folded configuration facilitates transportation and stowage of the child restraint device . Conversely when in the unfolded configuration and positioned within a seat such as an aircraft seat the base member and the back member may be generally transverse to each other.

The child restraint device may include a means for securing the base member and the back member in the folded configuration. For example a zipper type mechanism may be used to secure the base member and the back member in the folded configuration. The zipper type mechanism may be disposed along the periphery of the seam between the top surface of the base member and the front surface of the back member when the child restraint device is in the folded configuration. That is in some instances in order to maintain the child restraint device in the folded configuration a zipper may extend at least partially about the periphery of the base member and the back member . In this manner the base member and the back member may be zipped together such that the top surface of the base member abuts the front surface of the back member . Accordingly the base member and the back member may be folded together and zipped shut or unzipped and unfolded. One will appreciate however that other means such as but not limited to a strap a latch a button a hook and loop fastener e.g. VELCRO or the like may be used to secure the base member and the back member in the folded configuration.

In certain embodiments the child restraint device may include a storage pouch disposed on the rear surface of the back member and or on the bottom surface of the base member . For example the storage pouch may be a mesh pouch or the like comprising an opening . In some examples to close the storage pouch a releasable fastener system such as a zipper may extend at least partially across the opening of the storage pouch . Other configurations components or combinations thereof may also be used for closing the opening of the storage pouch such as a strap a latch a button a hook and loop fastener etc. Moreover any number of storage pouches may be used. Furthermore one or more storage pouches may be disposed on the front surface of the back member the top surface of the base member and or the bottom surface of the base member .

As noted above the unfolded configuration of the child restraint device may be associated with an aircraft seat. That is the bottom surface of the base member may be positioned against the bottom portion of the aircraft seat and the rear surface of the back member may be positioned against the back portion of the aircraft seat. The child restraint device may then be securely attached to the aircraft seat as discussed in greater detail below.

In certain embodiments the child restraint device may include at least one back member securing belt that is attached to the back member and is adapted to be fastened around the back portion of an aircraft seat such as a passenger seat or a commercial airline seat. In certain aspects the at least one back member securing belt may include a configuration similar to a standard aircraft seat belt. For example the at least one back member securing belt may include a buckle and an adjustable strap for fastening the at least one back member securing belt around the back portion of the aircraft seat. In other instances the at least one back member securing belt may comprise a hook and loop e.g. VELCRO strap. The at least one back member securing belt may extend in a generally transverse direction from the rear surface of the back member when fastened about the back portion of the aircraft seat. In another aspect the at least one back member securing belt may be attached to the back member about the top end of the back member although the at least one back member securing belt may be attached at any location about the back member .

Similarly the child restraint device may include at least one base member securing belt that is attached to the base member and is adapted to be fastened around the bottom portion of the aircraft seat. In one aspect the at least one base member securing belt may include a configuration similar to a standard aircraft seat belt. For example the at least one base member securing belt may include a buckle and an adjustable strap for fastening the at least one base member securing belt around the bottom portion of the aircraft seat. In other instances the at least one base member securing belt may comprise a hook and loop e.g. VELCRO strap. The at least one base member securing belt may extend in a generally transverse direction from the bottom surface of the base member when fastened about the bottom portion of the aircraft seat. In another aspect the at least one base member securing belt may be attached to the base member about the front end of the base member although the at least one base member securing belt may be attached at any location about the base member .

Accordingly the at least one back member securing belt and the at least one base member securing belt may facilitate the temporary coupling of the child restraint device to the aircraft seat. That is the at least one back member securing belt and the at least one base member securing belt may individually or in combination secure the child restraint device to the aircraft seat. In some instances the at least one back member securing belt or the at least one base member securing belt may be omitted. That is only one securing belt may couple the child restraint device to the aircraft seat.

The child restraint device may also include a restraint harness disposed between the top surface of the base member and the front surface of the back member . When the child restraint device is in the folded configuration the restraint harness may be disposed or sandwiched between the top surface of the base member and the front surface of the back member . When the child restraint device is in the unfolded configuration as depicted in the restraint harness may be used to secure a child within the child restraint device . For example the restraint harness may include an adjustable shoulder portion attached to the back member and an adjustable lap portion attached to the base member . The adjustable shoulder portion and the adjustable lap portion may be releasably fastened together by any means known in the art such as with a buckle latch type mechanism or attachment loop. The adjustable shoulder portion of the restraint harness may be configured to go over the shoulders of a child and secure the upper torso of the child. The adjustable lap portion of the restraint harness may be configured to go between the legs and over the lap of a child and secure the lower torso of the child. In some instances the restraint harness may comprise an adjustable five point restraint or the like. That is the adjustable shoulder portion may be fastened to the adjustable lap portion by a buckle assembly . Any buckle assembly may be used. In some instances the buckle assembly may include a release mechanism such as a button or the like configured to release the adjustable shoulder portion and or the adjustable lap portion from about the child.

The restraint harness may be constructed of materials such as high tensile woven fabric that meets or exceeds federal safety regulation requirements such as Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards FMVSS and or or Federal Aviation Administration FAA regulations. Similarly the at least one back member securing belt and the at least one base member securing belt may be constructed of similar materials. One will appreciate however that any material known in the art or otherwise may be used herein for any of the various components.

In certain embodiments instead of or in addition to a buckle type assembly for fastening the adjustable shoulder portion to the adjustable lap portion the restraint harness may include at least one attachment loop for engaging the seat belt of an aircraft seat. That is the adjustable shoulder portion the adjustable lap portion or a combination thereof may include one or more attachment loops that the seat belt of the aircraft seat may be threaded through. In this manner the at least one attachment loop facilitates the integration of the aircraft s seat belt into the restraint harness provides an additional coupling to the aircraft seat and fastens the adjustable shoulder portion to the adjustable lap portion . In some instances however the attachment loops may be omitted.

The base member the back member or a combination thereof may include at least one attachment loop for engaging a seat belt of an aircraft seat. That is the base member and or the back member may include one or more attachment loops that a seat belt of an aircraft seat may be threaded through. In this manner the at least one attachment loop facilitates the integration of the aircraft s seat belt with the base member and or back member and provides an additional coupling to an aircraft seat. For example in certain aspects the at least one attachment loop may be disposed about the foldable junction between the top surface of the base member and the front surface of the back member . In one example the child restraint device may be secured to the aircraft seat via the seatbelt threaded through the at least one attachment loop and the child may be secured to the child restraint device by buckling the adjustable shoulder portion to the adjustable lap portion about the child.

In some instances the base member and or the back member may include an internal cavity for storing components of the child restrain device therein such as the restraint harness the at least one back member securing belt the at least one base member securing belt and or the shoulder strap . The internal cavity may include an opening at any point along the periphery or elsewhere of the base member and or the back member . The opening may include a fastening means such as for example a zipper type mechanism or the like as discussed above.

In one aspect the base member and or the back member may be between about 14 and 16 inches wide. In another aspect the base member and or the back member may be between about 0.25 and 2 inches thick. One will appreciate however that the various components of the child restrain device may include any suitable dimension or configuration.

The child restraint device may include at least one back member securing belt that is attached to the back member and is configured to be fastened around the back portion of the aircraft seat. In one aspect the at least one back member securing belt may include a configuration similar to a standard aircraft seat belt. For example the at least one back member securing belt may include a buckle and an adjustable strap for fastening the at least one back member securing belt around the back portion of the aircraft seat. In some instances the at least one back member securing belt may include a hook and loop e.g. VELCRO strap. The at least one back member securing belt may extend in a generally transverse direction from the rear surface of the back member when fastened about the back portion of an aircraft seat. In another aspect the at least one back member securing belt may be attached to the back member about the top end of the back member although the at least one back member securing belt may be attached at any location about the back member .

The back member may also include at least one attachment loop for engaging the seat belt of the aircraft seat. That is the back member may include one or more attachment loops that the seat belt of the aircraft seat may be threaded through. The at least one attachment loop facilitates the integration of the seat belt and the back member and provides an additional coupling to the aircraft seat. The at least one attachment loop may be positioned at any location about the back member .

In one aspect the child restraint device may include a storage pouch positioned on the rear surface of the back member although the storage pouch may be positioned at any location on the back member . The storage pouch may include for example a mesh pouch comprising an opening and a zipper . The storage pouch may be similar to the storage pouch described above with reference to .

Moreover the child restraint device may include a restraint harness attached to the back member . The restraint harness may be similar to the restrain harness described in . For example the restraint harness may include an adjustable shoulder portion attached to the top end of the back member and an adjustable lap portion attached to the bottom end of the back member . The adjustable shoulder portion and the adjustable lap portion may be releasably fastened together. The adjustable shoulder portion of the restraint harness may be configured to go over the shoulders of the child and secure the upper torso of the child. The adjustable lap portion of the restraint harness may be configured to go between the legs and over the lap of the child and secure the lower torso of the child. In certain aspects the restraint harness may include an adjustable five point restraint.

The restraint harness may include at least one attachment loop for engaging the seat belt of the aircraft seat. That is instead of or in addition to a buckle type assembly for fastening the adjustable shoulder portion to the adjustable lap portion the restraint harness may include at least one attachment loop for engaging the seat belt of an aircraft seat. That is the adjustable shoulder portion the adjustable lap portion or a combination thereof may include one or more attachment loops that the seat belt of the aircraft seat may be threaded through. In this manner the at least one attachment loop facilitates the integration of the seat belt into the restraint harness and provides an additional coupling to the aircraft seat.

As mentioned above the base member may include an internal cavity for storing components of the child restrain device such as the restraint harness the at least one back member securing belt or the shoulder strap . The internal cavity may include an opening at any point along the periphery of the back member . The opening may include a fastening means such as for example a zipper type mechanism. In one example the internal cavity opening may be disposed along the periphery of the bottom end of the back member .

In certain embodiments a base cover may be stowed within the internal cavity of the back member . In other embodiments the base cover may be at least partially unstowed outside of the internal cavity and positioned about the bottom member of the aircraft seat. Accordingly the base cover may provide a thin cover or base that the child may sit on.

The child restraint device may also include a restraint harness . The restraint harness may be used to secure the child within the child restraint device . For example the restraint harness may include an adjustable shoulder portion and an adjustable lap portion . In some instances the adjustable shoulder portion and the adjustable lap portion may be releasably fastened together. The adjustable shoulder portion may be configured to go over the shoulders of the child and secure the upper torso of the child . The adjustable lap portion may be configured to go between the legs and over the lap of the child and secure the lower torso of the child . In some instances the restraint harness may comprise an adjustable five point restraint or the like. In certain embodiments instead of or in addition to a buckle type assembly for fastening the adjustable shoulder portion to the adjustable lap portion the restraint harness may include at least one attachment loop for engaging the seat belt of the aircraft seat .

Although the foregoing description of the child restraint devices are described as being used with aircraft seats the child restraint devices can be used with essentially any other type of seat on which it would be desirable to secure a child including watercraft seats land based vehicle seats chairs in homes chairs at restaurants etc.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments.

