---

title: System and method for communication resource information
abstract: A system for communicating resource information may include a resource reservation proxy module to receive a first signal including resource request information. The resource reservation proxy module may be associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application. The resource reservation proxy module may process the received resource request information into a resource request packet, and communicate the resource request packet utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol. A resource reservation handler module may receive the communicated resource request packet. The resource reservation handler module may be associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application. The resource reservation handler module may process the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904462&OS=08904462&RS=08904462
owner: Motorola Mobility LLC
number: 08904462
owner_city: Libertyville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120124
---
The invention relates generally to communication of resource information and more particularly to a system and method for allowing applications operating in different environments to operate for example in a set top box STB using an environmentally independent communication protocol.

A STB is a computerized device that processes digital information. A STB is commonly used to receive encoded compressed digital signals from a signal source e.g. cable provider s headend and decodes decompresses those signals converting them into signals that a television TV connected to the STB can understand and display.

The STB may include a set top environment including an application under the control of a Multiple System Operator MSO that centralizes resource management. Applications may include for example interactive program guides applications for displaying sports scores home shopping etc. The MSO master application may handle resource conflicts and dictate to an underlying platform software how resource conflicts are to be resolved. If other applications desiring resource usage operate in the same application environment e.g. Open Cable Application Platform OCAP as the MSO master application the application environment can include a mechanism whereby the underlying implementation can notify the MSO master application when resource contention occurs and allow the MSO master application to decide how the resource conflict should be resolved. However if the MSO master application and the applications desiring resource usage operate in different application environments resource contention cannot be resolved in either application environment directly. For example the MSO master application may be developed in the C programming language using proprietary interfaces to the platform software. The applications desiring to use platform resources may be Java Xlets bound to services tuned by the platform operating for example in the OCAP application environment. Thus since the MSO master application and the applications desiring resource usage operate in different application environments resource contention cannot be resolved in either application environment directly.

The STB platform may include applications written to control the platform and to interact with a user and the application environment. As discussed above applications may include for example interactive program guides applications for displaying sports scores home shopping etc. Due to the variety of available STBs an application written for a STB of a first vendor may not operate on a STB of another vendor without having to re create the application. It is therefore desirable to provide a STB platform that allows for dissimilar application environments to work together without having to re create applications for each unique application environment of a STB.

According to an embodiment a system for communicating resource information may include a resource reservation proxy module executed by a processor to receive a first signal including resource request information wherein the resource reservation proxy module is associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application to process the received resource request information into a resource request packet and to communicate the resource request packet utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol. The system may include a resource reservation handler module to receive the communicated resource request packet wherein the resource reservation handler module is associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application and to process the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information.

According to another embodiment a method for communicating resource information may include receiving a first signal including resource request information at a first interface wherein the first interface is associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application processing by a processor the received resource request information into a resource request packet communicating the resource request packet utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol receiving the communicated resource request packet at a second interface wherein the second interface is associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application and processing the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information.

The methods and other functions described herein may be embodied in machine readable instructions that are executable by a processor and which may be provided in a non transitory computer readable medium.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the present disclosure is described by referring mainly to examples thereof. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is readily apparent however that the present disclosure may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In other instances some methods and structures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. Furthermore different examples are described below. The examples may be used or performed together in different combinations. As used herein the term includes means includes but not limited to the term including . The term based on means based at least in part on.

The system and method for communicating resource information may include a resource reservation proxy RRP module associated with each dissimilar application environment of a STB. When an application attempts an operation in one application environment the RRP for that application environment may communicate with a resource reservation handler RRH module associated with the application environment in which a Multiple System Operator MSO application resides. The RRH may communicate with the MSO application utilizing the mechanism defined in that application environment for resource management. An environmentally independent communication protocol between the RRP and the RRH may allow for communication among multiple programming languages multiple address spaces multiple CPUs and even multiple devices. In order to accomplish this the environmentally independent communication protocol may be an Internet protocol such as for example a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . A MSO may thus deploy a MSO application in the application environment in which it currently resides with confidence that new application environments e.g. OCAP may be used on a product such as a STB while preserving resource management under the control of the MSO application.

As described in detail below the system for communicating resource information may include the RRP module to receive a first signal including resource request information. The RRP module may be associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application. The RRP module may process the received resource request information into a resource request packet and communicate the resource request packet utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol. The RRH module may receive the communicated resource request packet. The RRH module may be associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application. The RRH module may process the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information.

For the system described above the RRP and RRH modules may be stored in a storage device of an apparatus for receiving digital content. The system may be stored in a storage device of a STB. The RRH module may communicate the second signal to the resource management application utilizing a mechanism associated with the second environment. The RRH module may receive a third signal originating from the resource management application. The third signal may include resource availability information responsive to the resource request information. The RRH module may process the received resource availability information into a resource availability packet and communicate the resource availability packet utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol. The RRP module may receive the communicated resource availability packet originating from the RRH module process the received resource availability packet to form a fourth signal including the resource availability information and communicate the fourth signal utilizing a mechanism associated with the first environment.

For the system described above the environmentally independent communication protocol may be an Internet protocol. The Internet protocol may be a simple object access protocol SOAP or a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . The RRP and or RRH modules may be an application programming interface. The first environment and the second environment may be separately associated with different respective programming languages address spaces central processing units and or devices. The first environment and the second environment may be separately associated with different respective programming languages.

As described in detail below a method for communicating resource information may include receiving a first signal including resource request information at a first interface. The first interface may be associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application. The method may include processing the received resource request information into a resource request packet and communicating the resource request packet utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol. The method may further include receiving the communicated resource request packet at a second interface. The second interface may be associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application. The method may include processing the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information.

For the method described above the method may further include communicating the second signal to the resource management application utilizing a mechanism associated with the second environment. The method may include receiving a third signal originating from the resource management application at the second interface. The third signal may include resource availability information responsive to the resource request information. The method may include processing the received resource availability information into a resource availability packet and communicating the resource availability packet utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol. The method may include receiving the communicated resource availability packet at the first interface processing the received resource availability packet to form a fourth signal including the resource availability information and communicating the fourth signal utilizing a mechanism associated with the first environment. For the method described above the environmentally independent communication protocol may be an Internet protocol. The first environment and the second environment may be separately associated with different respective programming languages.

As described in detail below a non transitory computer readable medium storing computer readable instructions that when executed by a computer system may perform a method for communicating resource information. The method may include receiving a first signal including resource request information at a first interface. The first interface may be associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application. The method may include processing the received resource request information into a resource request packet and communicating the resource request packet utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol. The method may further include receiving the communicated resource request packet at a second interface. The second interface may be associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application. The method may include processing the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information.

As described herein with reference to a system for communicating resource information may include a resource reservation proxy RRP module to receive a first signal including resource request information. Resource request information may include for example a request to change the size of video e.g. reduce video size to of the screen size or for graphic overlays. The RRP module may be associated with a first environment associated with a requesting application . The RRP module may process the received resource request information into a resource request packet and communicate the resource request packet at utilizing an environmentally independent communication protocol . A resource reservation handler RRH module may receive the communicated resource request packet via a communication at . The RRH module may be associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application . The RRH module may process the received resource request packet into a second signal including the resource request information. The RRP and RRH modules may be stored in a storage device of an apparatus for receiving digital content. For example the system may be stored in a storage device of a STB . Alternatively the system may operate on other devices such as for example a personal computer or a mobile device.

The RRH module may communicate the second signal to the resource management application utilizing a mechanism associated with the second environment . The mechanism may modify if needed the second signal in a format compatible with the resource management application or otherwise transfer the second signal to the resource management application without modification. The mechanism may be a feature of the RRH module . The RRH module may receive a third signal originating from the resource management application . The third signal may include resource availability information responsive to the resource request information. The RRH module may process the received resource availability information that may be included in the resource request packet into a resource availability packet and communicate the resource availability packet at utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol . The RRP module may receive the communicated resource availability packet originating from the RRH module via the communication at process the received resource availability packet to form a fourth signal including the resource availability information and communicate the fourth signal utilizing a mechanism associated with the first environment to the environmentally independent communication protocol . The mechanism may modify if needed the fourth signal in a format compatible with the environmentally independent communication protocol or otherwise transfer the fourth signal to the environmentally independent communication protocol without modification. The mechanism may be a feature of the RRP module .

For the system described above the environmentally independent communication protocol may be an Internet protocol. For example the Internet protocol may be SOAP or HTTP. The RRP and or RRH modules may be an application programming interface. The first and the second environments may be separately associated with different respective programming languages address spaces central processing units and or devices. The first and the second environments may be separately associated with different respective programming languages.

As described above the system described herein provides for deployment of an application in the second environment associated with the resource management application with confidence that new applications in new application environments e.g. the first environment may be used while preserving resource management under the control of the resource management application .

For example when moving from the first environment e.g. OCAP to the second environment e.g. including a proprietary platform applications for the second environment may not be applicable and or operational in the first environment . If the first environment includes an application written in Java and the second environment includes applications written in C or C although some of the functionality may be brought from the second to the first environment the code however may be largely specific to an application environment. The system described herein provides for deployment of an application in the second environment associated with the resource management application with confidence that new applications in new application environments e.g. the first environment may be used while preserving resource management under the control of the resource management application .

If the first environment is the OCAP environment including applications written in Java the system provides for operation of applications in the OCAP environment with a STB including an application in the second environment associated with the resource management application . The OCAP environment may include multiple applications operating at the same time. Examples of applications may include interactive program guides applications for displaying sports scores home shopping etc.

The system may provide for the STB running an interactive program guide in the second environment to simultaneously operate a new platform such as the OCAP platform in the first environment . The system also provides for the first and second environments to control resources of the STB . Resources may include for example resources related to graphics video network interfaces tuners scheduling of recordings etc.

Based on the foregoing the system provides for dissimilar application environments e.g. the first and second environments to work together so that one of the environments i.e. second environment maintains control of all the resources and has proxy to the other environment i.e. first environment so that both environments effectively have control of all of the system resources.

For the method referring to at block the method may include receiving the first signal including resource request information at a first interface . The first interface may be associated with the first environment associated with the requesting application . As shown in the RRP module may receive the first signal including resource request information. Resource request information may include for example a request to change the size of video e.g. reduce video size to of the screen size or for graphic overlays.

At block the method may include processing the received resource request information into a resource request packet. As shown in the RRP module may process the received resource request information into the resource request packet.

At block the method may include communicating the resource request packet utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol . As shown in the RRP module may communicate the resource request packet at utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol . The environmentally independent communication protocol may be an Internet protocol.

At block the method may include receiving the communicated resource request packet at a second interface via the communication at . The second interface may be associated with a second environment associated with a resource management application . The first environment and the second environment may be separately associated with different respective programming languages. As shown in the RRH module may receive the communicated resource request packet.

At block the method may include processing the received resource request packet into the second signal including the resource request information. As shown in the RRH module may process the received resource request packet into the second signal including the resource request information. As discussed above with reference to the RRP and RRH modules may be stored in the storage device of an apparatus for receiving digital content. For example for the system of the system may be stored in a storage device of the STB . Alternatively the system may operate on other devices such as for example a personal computer or a mobile device.

At block the method may include communicating the second signal to the resource management application utilizing the mechanism associated with the second environment . For example referring to the RRH module may communicate the second signal to the resource management application utilizing the mechanism associated with the second environment . The mechanism may modify if needed the second signal in a format compatible with the resource management application or otherwise transfer the second signal to the resource management application without modification.

At block the method may include receiving the third signal originating from the resource management application at the second interface . The third signal may include resource availability information responsive to the resource request information. As shown in the RRH module may receive the third signal originating from the resource management application .

At block the method may include processing the received resource availability information into a resource availability packet. As shown in the RRH module may process the received resource availability information into a resource availability packet.

At block the method may include communicating the resource availability packet at utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol . As shown in the RRH module may communicate the resource availability packet utilizing the environmentally independent communication protocol .

At block the method may include receiving the communicated resource availability packet at the first interface via the communication at . As shown in the RRP module may receive the communicated resource availability packet originating from the RRH module .

At block the method may include processing the received resource availability packet to form a fourth signal including the resource availability information. As shown in the RRP module may process the received resource availability packet to form the fourth signal including the resource availability information.

At block the method may include communicating the fourth signal utilizing the mechanism associated with the first environment . As shown in the RRP module may communicate the fourth signal utilizing the mechanism associated with the first environment to the environmentally independent communication protocol . The mechanism may modify if needed the fourth signal in a format compatible with the environmentally independent communication protocol or otherwise transfer the fourth signal to the environmentally independent communication protocol without modification.

Some or all of the operations set forth in the figures may be contained as a utility program or subprogram in any desired computer readable storage medium. In addition the operations may be embodied by computer programs which can exist in a variety of forms both active and inactive. For example they may exist as programs comprised of program instructions in source code object code executable code or other formats. Any of the above may be embodied on a computer readable storage medium which include storage devices.

An example of a computer readable storage media includes a conventional computer system RAM random access memory ROM read only memory EPROM erasable programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM hard drives and flash memory. Concrete examples of the foregoing include distribution of the programs on a CD ROM or via Internet download. It is therefore to be understood that any electronic device capable of executing the above described functions may perform those functions enumerated above.

Turning now to there is shown a computing device which may be employed as a platform for implementing or executing the method depicted in or code associated with the method. It is understood that the illustration of the computing device is a generalized illustration and that the computing device may include additional components and that some of the components described may be removed and or modified without departing from a scope of the computing device .

The device includes a processor such as a central processing unit a display device such as a monitor a network interface such as a Local Area Network LAN a wireless 802.11x LAN a 3G or 4G mobile WAN or a WiMax WAN and a computer readable medium . Each of these components may be operatively coupled to a bus . For example the bus may be an EISA a PCI a USB a FireWire a NuBus or a PDS.

The computer readable medium may be any suitable medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. For example the computer readable medium may be non volatile media such as an optical or a magnetic disk volatile media such as memory and transmission media such as coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic light or radio frequency waves. The computer readable medium may also store other applications including word processors browsers email instant messaging media players and telephony applications.

The computer readable medium may also store an operating system such as MAC OS MS WINDOWS UNIX or LINUX network applications and a data structure managing application . The operating system may be multi user multiprocessing multitasking multithreading real time and the like. The operating system may also perform basic tasks such as recognizing input from input devices such as a keyboard or a keypad sending output to the display and a design tool keeping track of files and directories on medium controlling peripheral devices such as disk drives printers image capture device and managing traffic on the bus . The network applications include various components for establishing and maintaining network connections for implementing communication protocols including TCP IP HTTP Ethernet USB and FireWire.

The data structure managing application provides various components for building updating an architecture such as architecture for a non volatile memory as described above. In certain examples some or all of the processes performed by the application may be integrated into the operating system . In certain examples the processes may be at least partially implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware machine readable instructions or in any combination thereof.

Although described specifically throughout the entirety of the instant disclosure representative examples have utility over a wide range of applications and the above discussion is not intended and should not be construed to be limiting. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the examples. While the examples have been described with reference to examples those skilled in the art are able to make various modifications to the described examples without departing from the scope of the examples as described in the following claims and their equivalents.

