---

title: Methods and apparatus for providing improved access to applications
abstract: A data processing system includes components for providing a pleasant user experience. Those components may include a family interaction engine that provides a family channel. The family interaction engine may provide for creation of a user group. The family channel may present content of interest to multiple users in the user group. When a user is detected near the data processing system, the family interaction engine may automatically present content of interest to that user. When used for presenting media content, the data processing system may also cause supplemental data to automatically be presented, wherein the supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to a predetermined interest of the user. The data processing system may also provide a ranked list of applications for potential activation by the user. The applications may be ordered based on the current context. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443272&OS=09443272&RS=09443272
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09443272
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120913
---
The present disclosure relates in general to data processing systems. More particularly the present disclosure relates to technology for improving the experience of users interacting with data processing systems.

People use data processing systems for many different purposes. Some types of data processing systems e.g. smartphones are typically used by a single person. Other types of data processing systems may have multiple users. For instance two roommates may share a personal computer or a whole family may share a tablet computer tablet . When multiple users share a data processing system however the data processing system may easily get cluttered with content that interests one of the users but not the other user or users.

A conventional data processing system may require that a different user account be created for each different user and users may be required to sign in with credentials e.g. a user identifier userid and a password before the data processing system will allow access to any content. Such a data processing system may maintain a different user profile for each different user account. A user profile may include a collection of data items for personalizing the data processing system for the associated user. For instance a user profile may include many different kinds of configuration settings for the user including settings that have been manually created and or configured by the user and settings that have been automatically created and or configured by the data processing system. The user profile may also identify which content items are available to the user.

In one example usage scenario a mother Mary acquires a conventional tablet to be used by herself her husband Joe her son Ned and her daughter Amy. Mary may intend for the tablet to be frequently used by different members of the family. For instance Mary may intend for the tablet to be used more like a television than a smartphone. However if Mary creates a different user account for each member of the family it may be difficult or impossible for the users to perform some kinds of actions with the tablet. For example it may be difficult for one user to share content with all of the other users.

On the other hand if Mary creates only a single user account to be shared by all four users or if the tablet does not allow for the creation of user accounts the tablet is likely to get cluttered with content as indicated above. It may also be difficult or impossible to protect any of the content from any individual user or users. In addition if one of the users changes the password for the shared user account the other users could get locked out.

Mary might also create five different user accounts with four of the accounts assigned to individuals and with one of the accounts to be shared by all four users. E.g. Mary might create accounts with the following userids Mary Joe Ned Amy and Shared. However that type of configuration could also present numerous difficulties and disadvantages as described in greater detail below. Furthermore there may be times when Mary would like to use the tablet with Ned and Amy but not with Joe making the shared user account an inappropriate choice.

Another challenge associated with some multi user and single user data processing systems pertains to the large number of applications that may be loaded into a data processing system and the difficulty of finding a shortcut to any particular application when desired. For example some platforms simply list all applications in alphabetical order. Other platforms may provide a list of recently used applications.

Additional challenges are associated with functions like sending content or other information from one device to another. Conventional devices address some but not all of those challenges. For instance a conventional smartphone allows a user to share contact information from an address book with another smartphone. Also a conventional smartphone allows a user to share other types of information with another smartphone via near field communication NFC technology. But with NFC technology the communicating devices must be touching or very close to each other typically within four centimeters. Other existing methods for sharing contact information and or other types of information are provided by technologies such as short message service SMS the social networking services known as LinkedIn and Facebook devices that run on the operating system known as Android the file format referred to as vCard and one or more services provided over the Internet by Google Inc Google . For instance Facebook and Google provide contact synchronization mechanism for mobile phones. Patent Cooperation Treaty PCT patent application serial number PCT US11 68068 entitled Mobile Device Position Detection describes techniques for transmitting information from a first device to a second device based on user input related to the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device.

If a data processing system is configured with only one user account and that account is to be shared by multiple users the data processing system may become cluttered with a collection of applications icons and other content that is not optimized for any particular user. One area where such clutter may be particularly problematic may be the main user interface or home screen of the data processing system. A user may try to reduce the clutter by manually grouping some items into specific folders or onto specific screens. However this grouping may not be automatic. Consequently as new content is introduced to the data processing system the manual process of grouping content items may become difficult and inefficient. Furthermore a manual grouping by one user may not be suitable for another user or for a group as a whole.

If a data processing system is to be used by a group the data processing system may be configured with a different user account for each user and with a shared user account to be shared by all of the users. Any individual logged in to the shared account may adjust the user profile for the shared account and may attempt to manually organize the content in a way that is pleasing to all members of the group. For instance this kind of configuration may be used for a tablet to be shared by members of a family. When a user is logged in to his or her individual user account user interactions may cause changes to be made to the user profile associated with that individual user account. However a conventional tablet does not adjust a shared user profile in response to changes in individual user profiles. Consequently if a user wants the changes that were made to his or her individual user profile to also be reflected in the shared profile the user may need to log in to the shared account and then repeat the user interactions which caused the desired changes to the individual profile.

A data processing system may tailor its content according to the user profile of the current user. For instance a video streaming application may suggest documentary videos for viewing by the current user if the user profile for the current user indicates that the current user has a preference for videos from that genre. However if one or more additional individuals want to watch a video on the data processing system with the current user the data processing system may be unable to suggest content that is appropriate for all of those individuals. This may be the case even if the application has access to the user profiles for all of the individuals that want to watch a video.

One user may want to send a message to or otherwise share content with any or all of the other individuals who use a shared data processing system. A user may share content by using an email application or a social networking application to present other users with the content or with a hyperlink to the content for example. Alternatively another application e.g. a music player or news reader may provide options to share content via social networking or email applications. However these methods may require steps that are so time consuming or inconvenient as to discourage sharing of content. For instance before a user can use the sharing option of a music player the user may need to sign in to a social networking application. Furthermore sharing through social networks is often done in a broadcast manner as opposed to targeting specific individuals. Alternatively using email or a social network to send content may require the sender to know the intended recipient s email address or userid on the social networking application.

The present disclosure involves a group interaction engine that provides data processing systems with improved facilities for handling user interactions. For instance the group interaction engine may provide improved facilities for interactions among multiple individual users. An example of a data processing system that may be used by multiple individuals is a tablet. In an example embodiment the group interaction engine runs on a tablet to be used by multiple members of a family. Accordingly the group interaction engine may also be referred to as a family interaction engine.

The family interaction engine may provide for individual user accounts. The family interaction engine may also provide for a different type of user account known as a collective user account. The family interaction engine may cause the collective user account to by tied or linked to specific individual user accounts. As described in greater detail below the collective account may be referred to as a family user account. The family interaction engine may also provide for individual user profiles associated with the individual user accounts and for a family user profile associated with the family user account.

When the family user account is open the family interaction engine may automatically provide the tablet with a main user interface that includes content of interest to multiple users. For purposes of this disclosure an account is considered to be open if the account is in control of the data processing system. For instance when a user logs in to his or her individual user account that account becomes open. Similarly an account that does not require logging in may be considered open when that account is in control. For instance a data processing system may be configured to automatically boot to the family user account. Consequently the data processing system could open the family user account without anyone logging in. Also if an account is open the corresponding profile is also considered to be open.

The main user interface that includes content of interest to multiple users may be referred to as a home screen. All of the content for the home screen may or may not fit on the screen at once. Accordingly the home screen may span multiple pages. The different pages of the home screen may also be referred to as a first screen a second screen etc. Users may move from page to page using a swipe gesture or any other suitable technique. For purposes of this disclosure unless explicitly provided otherwise any reference to a swipe gesture should also be understood as covering a flick gesture and vice versa.

The home screen for the family user and the associated features and functionality may be referred to as a family channel. The family interaction engine may enable the tablet to dynamically and automatically present and organize content in the family channel in a way that is tailored to the family as a collective. The family interaction engine may determine layout and content for the family channel based at least in part on the family user profile. In addition the family interaction engine may automatically update the family user profile in response to changes to or other actions associate with one or more individual user profiles. For instance the family interaction engine may update the family user profile according to an analysis that takes into account behaviors and preferences recorded for the family user account as well as behaviors and preferences for each of the individual user profiles. Thus the family interaction engine automatically uses actions within individual user accounts to determine content for the family channel. The family interaction engine may thereby enable the tablet to dynamically display content that is appropriate for the entire family.

For purposes of this disclosure the noun content refers to music files video files picture files icons software applications email messages text messages documents spreadsheets presentations and other types of data that may be stored on accessed by and or presented by a data processing system.

The family interaction engine may cause the family channel to be displayed automatically when the family account is open. In addition in some situations the family interaction engine may cause the family channel to be displayed when an individual user account is open. For example if an individual user account is open the family interaction engine may cause the family channel to be displayed when the tablet is docked charging or in some other idle or passive mode e.g. if the open user account has not been used for a predetermined period of time . Similarly the family interaction engine may cause the data processing system to display the family channel when all users are logged out. In addition the family interaction engine may provide the family channel with different kinds of content depending on whether the family account is open an individual user account is open or no user account is open.

In addition the family interaction engine may automatically detect when users are in close proximity to the tablet based on data from a camera and or other sensors. For example as described in greater detail below the tablet may include a camera and the family interaction engine may determine that a user is near the tablet based on data received from the camera. When one or more users are detected near the tablet the family channel may display recommendations that are tailored to the user or combination of users that have been detected. The family interaction engine may also allow a user to manually identify one or more other users as interested and in response to the addition of additional interested users the family interaction engine may dynamically adjust the recommendations so that they are appropriate for all of the interested users.

The family interaction engine may also allow for users to instantly send messages directly to or otherwise share content with other users that share the tablet including the family account. The shared content can be viewed either on the shared tablet or on a device that belongs to the other user.

A shared tablet may frequently be handed from one user to another. If the first user happens to already be logged in to the account that the second user intends to use the second user may easily access the desired content. Otherwise with a conventional tablet a cumbersome and inefficient process may be required to log the first user out and to log the second user in to the desired account. By contrast according to the present disclosure the family interaction engine may automatically determine which user is holding the tablet and the family interaction engine may automatically change the user interface and the open user account in response to detecting that the tablet has been handed from one user to another. More details concerning the types of operations that may be performed when the tablet is handed from one user to another are provided below with regard to .

Also when the tablet is being used to present media content the family interaction engine may determine which user is currently interacting with the tablet and the family interaction engine may cause the tablet to display supplemental data that is relevant both to the media content and to a predetermined interest of the current user. The family interaction engine may then determine that a second user is interacting with the tablet. In response the family interaction engine may cause the tablet to display new supplemental data that is relevant to the media content and to a predetermined interest of the second user.

The family interaction engine may also automatically detect whether a person is near the tablet and when a known user is detected near the tablet the family interaction engine may automatically select content to be displayed on the tablet based at least in part on the user profile for the detected user.

The family interaction engine may also present context aware smart shortcuts to applications. For instance the family interaction engine may use context data and user input to rank applications by their probabilities of activation and the family interaction engine may present shortcuts to those applications according to their ranked order of predicted activation.

In the embodiment of the group interaction engine is referred to as a family interaction engine and some or all of the family interaction engine is stored in data storage. The family interaction engine may include a content recommendation module CRM a content sharing module CSM a tablet transfer module TTM an application tailoring module ATM and an application ranking module ARM . Parts of the family interaction engine including without limitation a main routine the content recommendation module the content sharing module the tablet transfer module the application tailoring module and the application ranking module may be copied to RAM and executed by the processor. As described in greater detail below the family interaction engine may also include a variety of tables matrices files or other data structures to contain information that helps the family interaction engine to provide a good user experience such as a device list an application activation matrix AAM and a context application list CAL .

As suggested above the family interaction engine may enable the owner or administrator of the tablet to create different user accounts for different individual users. The accounts for individual users may be referred to as individual user accounts. When an individual user account is created the family interaction engine may also automatically create a corresponding user profile which may be referred to as an individual user profile. A user profile may include a the user s login credentials application data and tablet settings b user data identifying the user s preferences interests content items e.g. media files and applications and c other information pertaining to the user. The login credentials in the individual user profile may include credentials for the tablet as well as credentials for any applications on the tablet requiring login credentials. Similarly the other information pertaining to the user in the user profile may include data for the OS on the tablet data for applications on the tablet and data for remotely hosted applications websites or other services. The tablet may determine how the home screen for the user should be configured based on the user s profile. As shown in the family interaction engine may store the individual user profiles in a profiles module . For instance in one scenario the tablet of is to be shared by the following members of a family a mother a father and two children. Accordingly in the embodiment of the profiles module contains a first user profile A for the mother a second user profile B for the father as well as additional individual user profiles indicated by ellipses for the two children.

The family interaction engine may also provide for a collective user account and a corresponding collective user profile. The family interaction engine may enable the owner or administrator of the tablet to create the collective user account and link that account with multiple specific individual user accounts. When the collective user account is created the family interaction engine may also automatically create the corresponding collective user profile.

In some embodiments the collective user account may be created before any individual user accounts or the collective user account may be created automatically in connection with creation of the first individual user account. For example in one embodiment the first account created on the tablet may be an administrator account and the family interaction engine may use that account as the initial foundation of the collective user account. Subsequently as additional individual user accounts are added to the tablet the family interaction engine may automatically link those account to the collective account as well. In one embodiment the family interaction engine automatically treats every individual user account as a part of the collective user account and the family interaction engine therefore automatically links each individual user account to the collective user account.

However the family interaction engine may also provide for an independent guest account that is not associated with the collective user account. The family interaction engine may also provide for an independent administrator account that is not linked to the collective user account and the family interaction engine may create the collective user account in connection with creation of the second individual user account. The family interaction engine may also provide an opt out option that can be selected to prevent individual user accounts from being linked to the family account. If a user opts out that user s individual preferences will not affect the collective account.

If the operating system OS of the tablet supports multiple user accounts the family interaction engine may cooperate with the OS to create the individual user accounts and the collective user account. For an embodiment where the OS does not support multiple user accounts the family interaction engine more or less independently controls all accounts except for the administrator individual user account.

As described in greater detail below the family interaction engine may automatically adjust the collective user profile based on changes to individual user profiles or other actions associated with the individual user profiles. For example the family interaction engine may aggregate certain types of information from the individual user profiles into the collective user profile. In various embodiments collective user accounts may be used for families or for other types of user groups. Accordingly a collective user account may also be referred to as a group user account or a family user account. Likewise a collective user profile may be referred to as a group user profile or a family user profile.

The embodiment of involves a family of users. Accordingly this disclosure typically refers to family user accounts and family user profiles. For instance in the embodiment of the profiles module includes a collective user profile referred to as a family user profile . However a group interaction engine may also provide the same or similar kinds of features for collective user accounts for other types of user groups.

The local content may include content A for the first user account content B for the second user account and content for the family user account. This content may be organized and protected according to the corresponding user profiles.

The family interaction engine may also contain a device list that identifies devices which belong to the members of the family that have user accounts on the tablet. For ease of reference the members of the family that have user accounts on the tablet may be referred to as the registered family members the known family members or simply the family members. Likewise the devices in the list may be referred to as the registered family devices the known family devices or simply the family devices.

Similarly the second user profile may contain a variety of records for providing a user experience tailored to the second user. Those records may include a collection of user settings B a collection of computer learning results B a UPM B and a collection of content recommendations B. The second user profile may also contain data identifying a collection of home screen items B for the second user. The second user profile may also contain data identifying content items associated with the second user. When the second user account is open the family interaction engine may dynamically and automatically present another home screen with pictures appointments messages etc. that are relevant to the second user based at least in part on the second user s settings UPM recommendations and results learned by the tablet.

Additional user accounts and profiles may be created for additional users e.g. the two children . For instance in one scenario the family interaction engine will contain individual user accounts and individual user profiles for individuals with the following names or userids Mom Dad Jack and Jill. 

Furthermore as indicated above the profiles module may include a family user account and a corresponding family user profile . As shown in the family user profile may contain records like those described above with respect to the individual user profiles to help provide for a user experience tailored to the family as a collective. Those records may include a collection of user settings C a collection of computer learning results C a family preference model FPM C and a collection of content recommendations C. The family user profile may also contain data identifying a collection of home screen items C for the family user. For purposes of this disclosure the term family user generally refers to whichever user or users is are interacting with the tablet while the family user account is open. The family user profile may also contain data identifying content items associated with the family user such as local content . When the family user account is open the family interaction engine may dynamically and automatically present another home screen with pictures appointments messages etc. that are relevant to the family in general based at least in part on the family user s settings RPM recommendations and results learned by the tablet.

Moreover since the family interaction engine automatically adjusts the family user profile based on changes to individual user profiles or other actions associated with the individual user profiles the family user profile may include a blend of the settings recommendations and computer learning results from the profiles for the individual users. As a result the family user s recommended content items may be tailored to this particular family.

In one embodiment the home screen for the family account is one aspect of a family channel. The family channel may be controlled by the family interaction engine and the family channel may serve as a launching point for all members of the family. The family interaction engine may also display the family channel when the tablet is docked or charging and the family channel may cycle through relevant family content based on the family user profile. Relevant family content may include without limitation weather reports reports on the current location and activity of each family member notices of upcoming planned family events potentially via a calendar media content that may include personal photos or videos favored external media favored music and feeds from social networking sites of interest e.g. status updates from friends text messages from individuals being followed etc. . This content may also include applications commonly used under the family account such as an electronic program guide EPG a video on demand application a social networking application etc. The content may also include news items that have been automatically determined to correspond to shared interests and preferences of the family members. The family interaction engine may also present shared content on the family channel. This shared content may include items that have been shared with the family user by an individual user such as upcoming calendar items school news weather information or other items. These and other kinds of items may be shared using for example the techniques described below.

Other embodiments may provide a group channel or a collective channel with the same or similar features as those described herein with respect to the family channel.

The family interaction engine may also provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs that allow other applications on the tablet to access the family user profile and or individual user profiles. For instance an API may allow an application to read and modify the family user profile to tailor the family channel user interface to the shared interests of the family. For example a music player application may access the profile for the currently open account to determine which music files to recommend to the user that is currently signed into the tablet. If an individual user us signed in and that user s previous behavior indicates a preference for classical music the application may recommend classical music performances. However if the family account is open and past behavior under that account indicates a preference for Broadway musicals the application may recommend Broadway musicals.

The menu bar includes buttons or other selectable objects for launching specific applications or functions such as a calendar application a social networking application a music player etc. The user menu displays which user account is currently open and provides a drop down list of user accounts which may be selected to open a different account. For instance the user menu may display thumbnail pictures or icons for each individual family member. Selecting one of the family members from the menu causes the family interaction engine to open that person s individual user account. Alternatively the family interaction engine may use biometric forms of identification e.g. face recognition fingerprint scanning voice identification etc. to automatically determine who is currently holding the tablet and the family interaction engine may then automatically select or highlight the thumbnail in the user menu for that person.

The weather panel displays weather information for the current location. The calendar panel displays information about upcoming appointments scheduled for the family account. The received content panel provides information about and a link to a content item that has been shared with the family account from one of the individual user accounts. For purposes of this disclosure a link may be a hyperlink a shortcut or any other object or item that when selected activates or opens the associated content item. The shopping panel displays information about goods or services predicted to be of interest to one or more of the individual users or information from an application or service that has been configured to send shopping information to the tablet. The picture panel displays a picture predicted to be appealing to the family as a whole. The social networking panel displays information from a social networking application. For instance the family interaction engine may automatically detect postings that are relevant to two or more of the individual users and the family interaction engine may automatically display those posts in the social networking panel. The recommended content panel displays information about content predicted to be of interest to the family as a whole. The search panel provides an input field for entering search terms. The family interaction engine may use the family channel as a home screen.

In different embodiments or scenarios the family interaction engine may omit any of the containers described above. The family interaction engine may also include one or more versions of any of those containers with some versions based on the family profile and other versions based on individual user profiles. The family interaction engine may also populate the family channel with different containers.

The family interaction engine may determine the types of containers to be used for the family channel and the types of content to be included in each container based at least in part on the family user profile. Any of the users may manually change the corresponding settings for the family channel in the family user profile. For instance containers in the family channel may have controls for hiding and displaying each container and individual users may use those controls to manually hide or display containers. The family interaction engine may also provide an Add Container user interface control that allows Individual users to add new containers to the family channel.

In addition the family interaction engine may automatically adjust some settings for the family channel based on actions within the family account and within the individual user accounts. For example the family interaction engine may automatically sense the presence of individual users e.g. using voice identification or face recognition and the family interaction engine may automatically show or hide containers based on the preferences of those detected users. Also any feedback provided by the users e.g. selecting a like or dislike button a dismiss button etc. may impact the future content of the family interaction engine.

Furthermore the family interaction engine may change the appearance format and content of the family channel based on whether a the family user is logged in or b an individual user is logged in but the tablet is in an idle inactive or passive mode. For instance when the family user is open the family channel may use tiles or other containers to show content that entices the user to click on a link for more information but when the tablet is idle the family channel may remove one or more of those containers and may instead show summarized information followed by a detailed story which may appear in a different section or be scrolled within a container. In other words the family channel may show less content that is designed for active engagement and more content that is designed for passive consumption e.g. like a television program or a news reader . A container designed for passive consumption may enable users to get the latest updates on important topics without the need to actively engage or interact with the tablet. The family channel may shift to a preferred modality when the tablet is idle. For instance the family channel may be configured to use audio feeds as the preferred method for providing information when the tablet is in ambient mode. Consequently when the tablet transitions to ambient mode the family channel may replace a widget that provides textual information with a widget that provides audible information.

The family interaction engine may make similar adaptions based on other attributes of the user or users near the tablet. For instance a user profile may indicate that text feeds are the preferred method for providing information when the user is sitting in front of the tablet video feeds are the preferred method when the user is standing near the tablet and audio feeds are the preferred method when the user is moving around. If the family interaction engine detects that the user is sitting in front of the tablet the family interaction engine may funnel content to the family channel via a widget that presents text. In one scenario the user may be interested primarily in news and the family interaction engine may present news headlines in the widget. If the family interaction engine detects that the user is standing near the tablet without changing location e.g. while folding clothes the family interaction engine may funnel content to the family channel via a widget that presents video. If the family interaction engine detects that the user is wandering around the house the family interaction engine may funnel content to the family channel via a widget that plays audio. In each case the family interaction engine may first tailor the content and then once the content is determined the family interaction engine may determine the method for delivering the content based on user preferences user activity and the person or people near the tablet. For instance the family channel could automatically change from displaying a textual news story about a particularly event to presenting a video news report on that same event to presenting an audio report of that same event as the user changes his or her activity.

Furthermore if multiple people are near the tablet the family interaction engine may use any suitable approach to automatically customize or blend the type of content to be delivered and the delivery mechanisms to suit those people and the activities those people are concurrently involved in.

As described in greater detail above and below the family interaction engine may provide a variety of features which help to keep the family channel and the home screens for the individual user accounts from becoming disorganized and cluttered due to the choices preferences and actions of other users. As common interests and relevant content are identified these are presented appropriately via the appropriate containers in the family channel. So if multiple family users are interested in knowing results from the Olympics or knowing when people are expected to be home the family interaction engine may bring such information to the surface through the family channel. However if only one specific user is interested in the details of world cup soccer or the intimate details of his calendar such information may be presented on the home screen of the individual user s account but not on the home screen for the other users accounts and not on the family channel. Thus the family channel may facilitate an immediately useful and relevant interaction without any lag related to signing in to a specific account. And if a user desires a higher degree of individually tailored content the user may sign in to his or her personal account.

For purposes of this disclosure to sign in or log in to a user account generally means to provide user input that causes the tablet to open that account. For instance if the tablet has just booted the tablet may present a welcome screen containing selectable identifiers for each of the registered users. The current user may then select the identifier for the desired user account. If the selected account is not protected the tablet may immediately open that account. If the selected account is protected the tablet may prompt the current user for credentials e.g. a userid a password biometric input such as a fingerprint or iris scan and or other input to show that the user is who he or she claims to be . If the current user supplies to proper credentials the tablet may then open the selected account.

In some case however the tablet can provide for automatically signing in. For instance in one scenario the family account is not protected all of the individual user accounts are protected and the tablet is configured to automatically open or sign in to the family account upon bootup. In other scenarios all some or none of the accounts may be protected or unprotected and the tablet may automatically sign in to a protected individual user account in response to detecting that the corresponding user is utilizing the tablet as described in greater detail below.

In one embodiment the family interaction engine recognizes and automatically launches the correct profile based on a the user or users in the room and b the known interest of that user or those users. For example if Dad always uses the family profile and the tablet recognizes Dad s face then the tablet may automatically startup to the family profile. In addition the family interaction engine may customize the startup behavior based on learning over time or based on stated preferences of the users.

The family interaction engine may also tailor the content of the family channel in response to detecting people other than the registers users visitors near the tablet. For instance the family interaction engine may prevent the family channel from presenting personal family information if any people without individual user accounts are detected near the laptop.

Other aspects of the current context that the family interaction engine may consider when determining what to include on the family channel may include without limitation scheduled events associated with one or more of the family members. For instance the family interaction engine may recognize such events based on data from the family calendar from individual user calendars from events described in a social networking application etc. Other aspects may include the activities that the current user is currently involved in e.g. watching TV listening to music etc. how noisy it is at the location of the laptop whether any people are detected near the tablet whether any registered users are detected near the tablet what is playing on the television the weather unusual changes to routines associated with any of the family members e.g. detecting that Dad is stuck in traffic when normally he would already be home etc.

The family interaction engine may then determine which containers to display on the family user home screen and which content items to include in those containers as shown at block . These determinations may be based on the data in the family user profile as well as on aspects of the current context for the tablet such as those mentioned above. Once the content is determined the family interaction engine may display that content on the family user channel for instance as one or more home screens as shown at block .

As depicted in block the tablet may then determine whether an individual user has signed in. If an individual user does not sign in the process may return to block with the family interaction engine determining the current context and adjusting the content to be included on the family channel in response to a significant change in context as shown at blocks and .

If an individual user has signed in the family interaction engine may close the family user account as indicated at block and open the individual user s account as shown at block . The family interaction engine may then determine the current context and what content to show on the individual user s home screen as depicted at blocks and . The family interaction engine may display that content on the individual user s home screen as indicated at block .

As shown at block the family interaction engine may then facilitate interaction by the individual user as described in greater detail below with regard to . In addition as the individual user interacts with the tablet the family interaction engine may update the individual user s profile accordingly as depicted at block . For example if the individual user pulls up a first article about politics and a second article about travel the family interaction engine may update the user profile to record that the user is interested in politics and travel. The updated user profile may then influence future content items and content recommendations for the individual user as well as the content for the family user channel.

As shown at block the family interaction engine then determines whether the individual user is signing out. If the individual user does not sign out the process may return to block with the family interaction engine determining the current context and determining the content to display on the individual user s home screen etc. as indicated above. If the individual user signs out however the family interaction engine may update the family user profile based on the actions of the user in the individual user account as indicated generally at block and as described in greater detail below with regard to . The family interaction engine may then close the individual user account and open the family user account as shown at blocks and . The process may then repeat the operations described above as appropriate.

Thus the family interaction engine automatically learns family preferences and behaviors and self configures to optimize use for the family as a whole. The family interaction engine may dynamically configure the family user profile and the family channel. The family user profile may serve as an anchor point on a multi user multi profile family tablet. As described in greater detail below with respect to the family user profile may allow the family interaction engine to identify recommended content and applications based on aggregating the preference models from all user profiles on the tablet.

Block shows the family interaction engine determining whether a user has specifically requested a change to the family user profile for instance via a profile settings function made available by the family interaction engine when the family user account is open. If a user has requested a change to the family user profile the family interaction engine may record that change to the family user profile as shown at block .

Block shows the family interaction engine determining whether a new usage pattern has been detected for the family user. If the family interaction engine has detected a new usage pattern for the family user the family interaction engine may adjust the family user profile accordingly as shown at block . For instance if the family interaction engine determines based on an analysis of user interactions with content items presented on the family channel that the family user has a strong interest in national news items and little or no interest in the local weather forecast the family interaction engine may adjust the family user profile to cause the weather panel in the family channel to be replaced with a national news panel.

Block shows the family interaction engine determining whether the family user has designated any items of content as a new favorite. If so the family interaction engine may update the family user profile to identify the new favorite item or items as shown at block .

Block shows the family interaction engine determining whether the content recommendation module has presented any new content recommendations to the family user. If the content recommendation module has presented new content recommendations the family interaction engine may modify the family user profile to include those recommendations as indicated at block . The process of may then end.

The process of involves features which make it simple for users to leave messages and reminders for other users and to share content with other users including the family user. The process of may begin with a user already signed into the tablet under either an individual user account or under the family user account. As shown at block the family interaction engine may then determine whether the user has requested content interaction. In one embodiment the user may request content interaction by clicking a piece of content on the home screen and dragging the content towards the top of the display.

If the family interaction engine determines that the user is requesting content interaction the family interaction engine may launch the content sharing module. Alternatively the tablet may automatically launch the content sharing module when the tablet boots up or whenever a user logs in to an account and then the content sharing module may determine whether the user is requesting content interaction. As shown at block after the content sharing module has been launched and possibly in response to a request for content interaction the content sharing module may automatically detect whether any other registered devices are located within a predetermined range of the tablet. The content sharing module may create or update a device list to identify the detected devices. In addition or alternatively the family interaction engine may periodically monitor for registered devices within range of the tablet and the family interaction engine may update the device list dynamically. The content sharing module may then use the device list to determine which devices should be presented as potential recipient devices.

As depicted at block the content sharing module may then present the user with options for sharing content. For example the family interaction engine may display identifiers for various potential recipients such as a list of known users and a list of detected devices. For purposes of this disclosure an identifier may be a textual name or other textual term an image icon or other graphical representation or any suitable combination of text and graphics. For instance the content sharing module may present the detected devices as device names as device and or user images or as a combination of device names and device user images. The list of known users may include all of the registered family members. For instance in one scenario the list of known users may include the names or individual userids Mom Dad Jack and Jill. The content sharing module may present identifiers for each of the known users. The list of detected devices may include all of the family devices detected in block and or listed in the device list.

The content sharing module may determine which users own which devices based on the user profiles. For instance a specific device or multiple specific devices can be linked to a specific user account when that user account is created or modified on the tablet. In addition multiple devices may run the family interaction engine the same family members may be registered as users on those devices and the resulting user profiles may also identify which users own which devices. The family interaction engines on those devices may interact together using any suitable approach.

In one embodiment if the user drags a piece of content towards the top of the display the content sharing module may cause a horizontal bar to pop up across the top of the display. That bar may be referred to as the sharing bar. The content sharing module may display within the sharing bar identifiers for each known user and each detected device.

Alternatively the user can share content on the home screen by selecting a Share button and then specifying whom the content should be shared with. In addition applications may provide input objects or other mechanisms which allow users to invoke sharing options of the content sharing module. For instance a web browser application that displays content may also provide a menu option in the application s user interface for sharing selected content with other users on the tablet or with the family account . When the user selects that sharing option the content sharing module may present a sharing bar or other interface for selecting recipients as described above.

After presenting potential recipients to the user the content sharing module may then determine whether the user has selected a recipient. For instance as shown at block the content sharing module may determine whether the user has selected the family account as the recipient. The user may select the family account as the recipient by dropping the content on an area of the screen associated with the family channel. For example if the user drags content over the sharing bar and then hovers or lingers there for an extended period of time e.g. one second the content sharing module may create a larger window that shows the family channel or the family channel may fill the screen . In other words the content sharing module may cause the bar to extend to reveal the family home screen. The user may then drop the content onto the family home screen. Alternatively to select a recipient the user may simply click on the identifier for that recipient.

If the family user account has been selected the content sharing module may modify the family user profile accordingly as indicated at block . For instance the content sharing module may modify the family user profile in a way that causes the family interaction engine to present the shared content on the family channel when the family channel is subsequently displayed e.g. when the family account is open . The family interaction engine may display the shared content in a widget or other container on the home screen that is designed to present content that has been shared with the family account. Thus by selecting the family account as the recipient the user makes the content accessible for all family members to view in the tablet s ambient mode.

Thus the content sharing module may provide a simple method for a user to instantly share content with others tablet users in a family. Users can share any type of content with the family account including without limitation messages and calendar reminders. For instance if Mom is traveling for work she can record a funny video message for Jack and Jill on her smartphone and then share the video message from her smartphone to the family channel for Jack and Jill to see when they get home from school. Additional information about a family channel service that provides for this kind of sharing is provided below in connection with . And if Jack needs a ride home from band practice on Monday he can create a calendar reminder to that effect on the tablet under his individual user account and then share that reminder to the family channel. Anyone viewing the family channel could then see that reminder. Likewise Dad can share reminders about chores for the kids etc.

However referring again to block if the family account is not selected the content sharing module may then determine whether an individual user account has been selected as depicted at block . The user may select a user account by dropping the content on the identifier associated with that account in the sharing bar or by selecting the content and then selecting the identifier for that account for instance. When an individual user account has been selected the content sharing module may modify the user profile for the selected account accordingly as shown at block . For instance the content sharing module may modify the user profile in a way that causes the family interaction engine to present the shared content on the home screen of the selected user when the selected user logs in. The family interaction engine may display the shared content in a container that is designed to present content that has been shared with the user for example. In addition or alternatively the family interaction engine may display the shared content on the family channel screen if the selected user is detected near the tablet as described below. Like with the family channel users may share any type of content with other individual users.

However referring again to block if the content sharing module determines that an individual user account has not been selected the content sharing module may then determine whether a particular device has been selected as indicated at block . The user may select a device by dropping the content on an identifier or image associated with that device. In one embodiment the content sharing module initially presents only the list of family members but then if the user drags the content to an individual user identifier and then hovers there for an extended period of time e.g. one second the content sharing module expands a drop down menu that lists the devices belonging to the selected user. The sharing user may then drop the content onto one of those listed devices. Alternatively to select a device the user may simply click on the identifier for that device.

In addition after detecting other devices the content sharing module may determine where those devices are located relative to the tablet. Additional details concerning features for detecting the relative positions of mobile devices may be found below in Appendix A Mobile Device Position Detection.

The content recommendation module may also enable the user to send content to another device that is near the tablet by simply flicking the content in the direction of the other device. The content sharing module may provide this functionality without expanding the content into an application and without displaying the sharing bar. If an icon or other identifier for a particular content item is displayed on the home screen the user may simply flick that icon towards the target device. The content sharing module may then automatically determine whether the user has flicked the identifier for the selected piece of content towards one of the other devices. In response to determining that the user has flicked the content towards one of the other devices the content sharing module may automatically send the selected piece of content to that device. In addition the tablet and the other devices may be configurable with regard to how received content is to be presented. For instance the user of a device may save a configuration setting that selects among multiple content display options for the device. The content display options may include without limitation a first option to configure the device to automatically display received content and a second option to configure the device to automatically display a notification that content has been received.

Referring again to block if a device has been selected the content sharing module may instantly send the shared content to that device as depicted at block . Users may share any type of content with devices. The content sharing module may then remove the sharing bar and the process may then end. Alternatively the content sharing module may keep the sharing bar displayed the process may return to block and the user may share the content with additional users and devices.

As indicated above the content sharing module may also enable users to share content from within an application while logged in to an individual user account or while logged in to the family user account. For instance the home screen may include a video player application. When the user selects a specific piece of content e.g. a specific video file the video player application may expand to display the content along with an option e.g. a menu button labeled Share or any other suitable input object or mechanism for the user to activate sharing functionality. Consequently while the user is using the video player application to watch the video on the tablet he or she may select the share option. When the user selects the share option the content sharing module may bring up the sharing bar and the user may select another user or device as the recipient as described above. The content sharing module may then update the user profile for the selected recipient user and or transmit the content to the selected device as described above. The same kinds of options and operations may be provided by other types of applications. For instance if the user is viewing a picture in a social networking application the social networking application may provide a sharing option and the content sharing module may bring up the sharing bar in response to user selection of that sharing option.

In one embodiment to provide for sharing from within an application the application provides one or more APIs or hooks that are exposed to the content sharing module. Such hooks may be published to provide for data exchange and personalization. The content sharing module may provide some or all of the user interface features that facilitate the sharing between devices and people. The content sharing module may also provide the mechanisms for transferring the data between users and or between devices. Once content has been transferred the content sharing module may then hand off the shared content to the application through the API and the application may be responsible for presenting that content. Such an API may include fields to identify the user to receive the content to identify the device to receive the content to identify or include the content being shared etc. The data field for the content may be application dependent and the application may send whatever it needs to be able to retrieve on the other side. In one scenario the family channel home screen is an application that uses the same kind of API to transfer content more or less like any other application. In addition applications may use predefined data types to facilitate sharing between different applications. For example one type of web browser on the tablet could share a hyperlink with a smartphone that uses a different type of web browser and the shared link may easily be used by the web browser on the smartphone because the data type is comprehended by both browser type applications.

In addition the home screen of any device or user account to which content has been shared may be automatically updated and dynamically refreshed to show any new content that has been shared with that device or account user.

The address book may also allow each user to flag individuals and groups that are listed in the address book contacts for inclusion in the sharing bar. Subsequently whenever a user brings up the sharing bar the content sharing module may also display identifiers for each of those flagged contacts as potential recipients. Alternatively the content sharing module may include a configuration setting that allows the user to specify that all of the contacts in the user s address book are to be shown in the sharing bar.

The content sharing module may thus make it easy for users to share content. By contrast with a conventional tablet a user might need to execute numerous inconvenient actions in order to share content. Conventional techniques for sharing content include embedding the content within or attaching it to an email message transferring the content via a flash drive and copying the content to a file server or to a website that provides similar services.

However referring back to block if content interaction has not been requested the process may pass through page connector A to .

People use tablets and other data processing systems extensively for content and media consumption including reading online news browsing content from the World Wide Web watching online television TV and movies etc. Recommendation systems help people to find content that may interest them. A conventional recommendation system may focus on serving individual users e.g. as part of an application or service that provides videos on demand . Accordingly the recommendation system may generate recommendations for a particular user or account based on the preferences specified by the individual owner of that account.

However a tablet or other data processing system may be shared by multiple members of the same group such as a household or family and the family may use that tablet in a social setting e.g. with the whole family together in the same room for family night . When a recommendation system based on single users is used in a group setting the system may be incapable of generating and providing suggestions that are relevant or well suited to the entire group. Instead the recommendations may be well suited only to the specific individual who is logged in to the tablet.

As shown at block if a function for editing the recommendation group has been selected the content recommendation module may present options for changing the recommendation group. For example the content recommendation module may display a list of all known tablet users including the family user for potential inclusion in the recommendation group. The content recommendation module may present users as names userids images e.g. thumbnails or any suitable combination these or other identifiers. Then if one or more family members are also interested in the content recommendations the current user may select those users by touching clicking or otherwise selecting their identifiers in the displayed list. In response to a user being selected the content recommendation module may add the selected user to the recommendation group.

For instance Dad may initially be using the tablet by himself logged in to his own account and the home screen may automatically present recommendations based only on Dad s preferences. Jill may then sit down next to Dad and Dad may use the edit function to add Jill to the recommendation group. Consequently the home screen may automatically present recommendations based on the preferences of Dad and Jill combined.

Similarly users can be deleted from the recommendation group either manually or automatically in response to detecting that the particular user is no longer present in front of or next to the tablet for instance. Manual options for deleting a user from the recommendation group may include a Remove button associated with that user in the user interface. The person holding the laptop may also remove a user by dragging or swiping that user s thumbnail out of the recommendation group in the user interface.

The content recommendation module may then determine whether the recommendation group has been changed as indicated at block . If the recommendation group has changed the content recommendation module may generate and present new content recommendations based at least in part on the profiles of the users in the recommendation group as shown at blocks and . For example the content recommendation module may determine that a particular G rated movie is of potential interest to all of the identified users and the content recommendation module may update a container in the family channel to recommend that movie. The process may then return to block and the user may make additional changes to the recommendation group as described above.

In addition or alternatively the content recommendation module may cooperate with another local or remote application to produce content recommendations for a group of users and to provide for editing that recommendation group. For example the content recommendation module may send to an application that supplies movies on demand data to identify the users in the recommendation group or to identify the preferences of those users. The movies on demand application may then use that data to determine content recommendations and the movies on demand application may then send those recommendations to the content recommendation module. The content recommendation module may then present the recommendations from the movies on demand application on the tablet. Alternatively the movies on demand application may use the techniques described above to provide the options for editing the recommendation group.

However referring again to block if the current user has not manually changed the recommendation group but has instead canceled the options for manually changing the recommendation group for instance the process may pass to block and the content recommendation module may then determine whether the current user or a previous user has selected or turned on automatic detection. Alternatively the content recommendation module may turn on automatic detection by default. If automatic detection is not turned on the content recommendation module may terminate and pass control back to the family interaction engine and the process of may end.

If automatic detection is turned on the content recommendation module may automatically determine whether any users other than the current user are present as indicated at block . For example the content recommendation module may utilize sensing technology including without limitation speaker identification based on audio received by the microphone and or face recognition based on video received by the camera to automatically identify users near the data processing system. If the content recommendation module detects another user the content recommendation module may automatically add the detected user to the recommendation group and then generate and present new recommended content based at least in part on the profiles of the users that have been detected as shown at blocks and . In addition the content recommendation module may display thumbnails or other identifiers for the known users and when a user is detected the content recommendation module may highlight that thumbnail for that user. If the content recommendation module does not detect another user the process may continue to loop through blocks and until another user is detected automatic detection is turned off or the content recommendation module is terminated. Alternatively the process may return to block with the content recommendation module providing options for manually editing the recommendation group as indicated above.

As has been described the content recommendation module allows the current user to easily change the recommendation group. A family that is using the tablet together may use the functions of the content recommendation module to find content they are all interested in. The content recommendation module may enable users to easily control the process by which the tablet recommends content for multiple people. The simple and intuitive user interface UI of the content recommendation module may greatly increase the likelihood that group recommendation functionality will be utilized.

However referring again to block if recommendation services are not needed the process may pass through page connector B to .

The process of may begin with the tablet transfer module or the family interaction engine automatically determining whether the tablet has been handed off or transferred from one user to another as shown in block . The act of handing off the tablet may be considered a handoff gesture. The tablet may determine that it has been transferred to a new user in response to a combination of events detected by various components of the tablet such as the motion orientation sensors and the touch screen display. For instance the tablet may detect that after a period of interaction by logged in user A touch interaction is no longer detected by the capacitive sensor or the touch information is static e.g. the user is holding the device as commonly happens in connection with a handoff then a movement captured by the accelerometer is detected and another touch static interaction is detected e.g. the new user takes the tablet in his or her hand . Or a handoff could be simply detected by identifying a different user looking at the camera. And the facial recognition feature may be further optimized by only triggering camera capture when some activity is detected from the accelerometer. However an actual handoff need not be detected accurately by the accelerometer when handoff detection is augmented with facial recognition. However if the family interaction engine detects that the tablet has not been actively used for a predetermined amount of time before the tablet is grabbed by the second user the family interaction engine may determine that no transfer has been detected and the family interaction engine may automatically transition to family mode.

Also if no transfer has been detected the process of may end. But if a transfer has been detected the family interaction engine may launch the tablet transfer module and the tablet transfer module may automatically determine the identity of the new user as depicted at block . Alternatively the tablet may automatically launch the tablet transfer module whenever the tablet boots up or whenever a user logs in and the tablet transfer module may determine whether determine whether a transfer has transpired. The tablet transfer module may use sensing technologies like those described above with regard to the content recommendation module e.g. face and or voice recognition to identify the new user. For purposes of the user who was originally holding the tablet is referred to as the first user and the user to whom the tablet has been handed is referred to as the second user. As described in greater detail below the tablet transfer module may then determine what type of user account changes should be applied if any based on user input received after the tablet has been transferred. For instance as described below the tablet transfer module may provide for a complete transfer or transition a temporary transition a shared transition and no transition.

In one embodiment in response to detecting a physical transfer of the tablet the tablet transfer module may automatically present an identifier for the first user and an identifier for the second user on the display of the tablet as indicated at block . The user identifiers may be in the form of thumbnail images userids names or any other suitable identifier. As shown at block the tablet transfer module may then determine whether user input has been received to request a complete transition according to which the first user is to be removed or signed out and replaced with a new current user. A complete transition may be requested if the first user is finished with the tablet and does not plan to use it again soon for instance. The input for a complete transition may constitute a swipe gesture in which the first user s thumbnail image or other identifier is dragged or swiped off the screen to indicate that the first user should be removed.

As depicted at blocks and if it is determined that a complete transition has been requested the tablet transfer module may automatically sign out the first user and automatically sign in the second user or prompt the second user to sign in. To automatically sign the second user in the tablet transfer module may use face recognition with the tablet camera to automatically authenticate the second user. This automatic sign in process may be more or less invisible to the users. In addition if the face recognition fails the tablet may automatically fall back to the family mode for privacy reasons e.g. to ensure the safety of the data of the user who just handed off the device .

Once the second user is signed in or once the family account is opened the process may then pass to block which illustrates the tablet transfer module removing the remaining thumbnail in this case for the second user from the screen. The process of may then end with the second user or the family user signed in and using the tablet as desired.

However referring again to block if a complete transition was not requested the tablet transfer module may then determine whether a request has been received for no transition i.e. to leave the first user signed in as indicated at block . No transition may be requested if the first user is not finished with the tablet and expects the second user to return the tablet soon for instance. The user input to request no transition may constitute a swipe gesture in which the second user s thumbnail image is swiped off the screen. If the tablet transfer module receives input requesting no transition the process may pass from block to block and the tablet transfer module may remove the remaining thumbnail in this case for the first user from the screen. The process of may then end with the second user holding the tablet but the first user still signed in.

However referring again to block if the option for no transition was not requested the tablet transfer module may then determine whether a request has been received for a shared transition i.e. for a transition to a session that takes into account the user profiles for both users . A shared transition may be desired if the first user and the second user plan to use the tablet to obtain recommendations for content predicted to be of interest to both the first and second user so the first and second users might enjoy that content together for instance. In one embodiment as shown at blocks and the tablet transfer module may determine that a shared transition has been requested if one of the users has selected or touched the thumbnail for the second user without dragging that thumbnail to the center of the screen. In response to such input the tablet transfer module may create a recommendation group that includes both the first and second users as shown at block . The content recommendation module may then make recommendations based on the profiles of both users as described above with regard to . The tablet transfer module may then remove the thumbnails or identifiers from the screen as shown at block . The process of may then end with the second user holding the tablet and the shared account signed in.

However referring again to block if the thumbnail for the second user was centered the tablet transfer module may implement a temporary transition in which the second user s account is temporarily opened as shown at block . A temporary transition may be desired when the first user intends to grant temporary access to the second user to allow the second user to share content with or send content to the first user for example. The user identifiers may then be removed from the screen as indicated at block and the process of may then end. However when the second user hands the tablet back to the first user the tablet transfer module may automatically close or log out the second user and then re open or log in the first user.

In another scenario the first user hands the tablet to a second user who intends to use the same application but with the contextual customization of the application dependent on the person holding the tablet. For instance Mom and Dad may be sitting together on the couch watching the Olympics and Dad may open an ACME Olympics Application that works collaboratively with what is showing on a television channel. While Dad holds the tablet he receives statistical information about the competitors e.g. what are the world record times who is expected to win what are the competitors best times etc. . When Dad hands the tablet to Mom the ACME Olympics Application continues to run but it changes the nature of what is being presented. For instance for Mom it presents a list of interesting facts about the venue e.g. when it was built what other events it has been used for which celebrities are currently at this forum which company supplies the uniforms what are the uniforms made from a link to purchase similar product etc. . In this case the first user was not logged out and the running app continued to run but the customization within the application was based on the user who held the tablet.

However referring again to block if the thumbnail for the second user is not selected within a predetermined configurable period of time the tablet transfer module may remove the user identifiers from the screen as indicated at block and the tablet transfer module may apply a default transition mode. In the embodiment of the default transition mode is no transition. The process of may then end.

Thus the family preference model constitutes an aggregate of characteristics and preferences for the family user profile along with results from analyzing preferences preference models and behaviors across all individual user profiles. The family interaction engine may observe learn and adjust the family preference model over time based on an ongoing analysis of behavior including usage of one or more content recommendation systems.

By analyzing factors such as those referenced above the family interaction engine may automatically identify information and applications that are likely to be of interest to the family members. Consequently the family interaction engine may automatically populate the family channel with different information and different applications in different contexts so that the information and applications presented at any particular time or in any particular situation are more likely to be of interest to the family members at that time or in that situation.

The process of may be performed by the tablet of and that process may begin for example when the tablet launches the family interaction engine as shown at block . As shown at block the family interaction engine may then consult the family user profile to obtain preference and usage data that may help the family interaction engine to determine which types of content and which specific content items might be most suitable for presentation on the family channel. For instance the preference and usage data from the family user profile may identify favored or commonly used content sources favored or commonly used applications favored or commonly used content categories or genres favored or commonly used content items and so forth. As shown at block the family interaction engine may also consult the individual user profiles to obtain any or all of the same kinds of preference and usage data for each of the individual users. As indicated at block the family interaction engine may also obtain preference and usage data by consulting one or more digital personas which may be created and or maintained by one or more local or remote digital persona services. A digital persona is a digital representation of important attributes and characteristics of a person. This digital representation may include data that has been volunteered observed and inferred about a person. Volunteered information includes information such as preferences favorites likes factual information credit card numbers address product preferences etc. and any other explicit information which a user has specifically shared. Observed information includes context based information about a person that has been electronically sensed observed or captured e.g. biometric data sensed geo location purchase behavior etc. . Inferred information is the result of analytics applied to volunteered and observed data. Inferred information can also be derived by analyzing and or combining demographic information e.g. where someone lives income levels etc. and or other types of information from one or more third party data sources.

The digital persona service s may provide data defining digital personas for any or all of the registered users.

In one embodiment the types of information that the family interaction engine extracts from the profiles and or the digital personas include without limitation

As shown at block the family interaction engine may then aggregate and analyze the data about preferences and behaviors from the collective family user profile the individual user profiles and the digital personas to create the family preference model.

For purposes of this disclosure when reference is made to a user profile it should be understood that a digital persona a context framework and other similar types of data stores may be used instead of the user profile or in addition to the user profile unless clearly indicated to the contrary either by the context or explicitly.

In one embodiment the family preference model includes data that specifies or identifies observed preferences observed behaviors and expressed interests of each individual user as well as data that specifies or identifies observed preferences observed behaviors and expressed interests for the collective family user account.

As depicted at block the family interaction engine may also determine the current context for the tablet. For example the family interaction engine may determine the time of day the location and the type of activity if any that one or more users may be using the tablet for. As described herein another context attribute that the family interaction engine may detect is the identity of any family members currently in proximity to the tablet. Additional context attributes are described herein. The family interaction engine may save the information about the current context and that information may be referred to as context data.

As indicated at block the family interaction engine may also consult the recommendations generated by the content recommendation module. For instance the family interaction engine may notify the content recommendation module as to the identity of any user in the vicinity of the tablet and may request content recommendations tailored to that user or group of users.

The family interaction engine may then determine the types of containers the types of content and the specific content items to be presented on the family channel based on the various different data sources referenced above as shown at block . And the family interaction engine may display that content on the family channel as indicated at block .

In one embodiment the family interaction engine determines the content to be displayed on the family channel by assigning different weighting factors to different individual user profiles based on which users are present. For instance the family interaction engine may create or update the family preference model to favor content for the present users based on the different weighting factors. For example if Dad and Jill are interested in sports or particular sports teams and Jack is not interested in sports the family preference model may cause the family channel to display more sports related containers and or content when only Dad and Jill are present than when only Dad and Jack are present. And as indicated below the family interaction engine may determine content to be displayed based on which specific group of users is present.

As depicted at block the family interaction engine may then determine or re determine whether any people can be detected in close proximity to the tablet. If any people are detected the family interaction engine may automatically determine whether those people are registered users as indicated at block . The family interaction engine may use any suitable sensing technologies e.g. face and or voice recognition to detect and identify people. As indicated above the family interaction engine may also determine whether any previously detected users are no longer present. The family interaction engine may then adjust the context data to identify the present user or users as shown at block . Thus the group present becomes a context element.

In addition the family interaction engine may update the individual user profiles and or the family user profile to identify behaviors and interests associated with different groups within the family. The content recommendation module may also record and use this kind of information. For example if Dad and Jill typically watch certain shows together or do certain activities together then the family interaction engine and the content recommendation module may automatically prioritize those shows or activities in response to detecting that Dad and Jill are present. However when Jack is also present the group may tend to watch a different show. Accordingly the family interaction engine and the content recommendation module may prioritize that show in response to detecting that Dad Jill and Jack are present. Thus the family interaction engine may observe the family behavior and subsequently use those observations to provide an experience that is customized for different groups within the family.

Once the context has been adjusted according to the current circumstances the tablet may then consult the content recommendation module to get content recommendations for the current user or group of users as depicted at block .

Once the new content recommendations have been received or if no people were detected at block the family interaction engine may then determine whether the context has changed as indicated at block . If the context has changed the family interaction engine may adjust or update the context data as shown at block .

In addition if a user interacts with the tablet those interactions may affect the content of the family channel. For instance if a user under the family account loads a new picture onto the tablet the family interaction engine may decide to add that picture to the family channel. Accordingly after the family interaction engine updates the context data or determines that the context has not changed the family interaction engine may detect whether a user is interacting with the tablet as depicted at block . If a user is interacting with the tablet the family interaction engine may update the family user profile and the family preference model as indicated at blocks and e.g. to identify the new picture as a favored or preferred item .

The process may then return to block with the family interaction engine re determining family channel content. The process of may continue operating with the family interaction engine dynamically updating the family channel in response to changing conditions.

Thus the family interaction engine may dynamically modify the content of the family channel to provide content predicted to be most compelling to the family as a whole. In one embodiment the family channel is a fluid UI of onscreen containers or container areas. Each container may run a different application widget newsfeed or other service depending on the context the preferences of the users in the room and the user interests. The shape and form of the UI may change in interesting ways augmenting or removing containers depending on the preferences of the users.

The contents of the containers may be selected to a match known preferences and favorites for a single user e.g. a stock ticker for particular favored or preferred stocks a particular favored or preferred media object or genre a particular favored or preferred newsfeed and or b to have broader group based appeal e.g. items from a family calendar favored or preferred family media items or genres location status updates of other family members from social networking applications health updates for extended family friends via sites such as the one at www dot CaringBridge dot org updates from a school website updates from teachers notes from one family member to the rest of the family favored or preferred entertainment applications e.g. an application for playing movies on demand etc.

The family interaction engine may determine what content to display on the family channel based on a combination of both individual and aggregate family favored content sources applications content items and other information. The family interaction engine may use multiple data sources to determine the type of information that would interest the family. Data sources may include without limitation the family user profile individual user profiles user family specified favorites preferences based on observed behavior while using the tablet and an integration of individual user favorites preferences and interests retrieved from a digital persona service.

In particular the family interaction engine may determine which types of content and which specific content items to include on the family channel based on the current context and the saved user profiles. For example if no one is detected in close proximity the family interaction engine may automatically dim or turn off the screen or the family interaction engine may display content that is relevant to all members of the family such as news that matches the interests of all family members or upcoming calendar events for all members of the family. Furthermore the family interaction engine may automatically tune the family channel content to individuals detected in close proximity. For instance if Mom is the only user detected near the tablet the family interaction engine may tune the content to be relevant to Mom such as categories of videos that Mom likes social networking updates for Mom indications of unread email or messages received by Mom and upcoming calendar events for Mom. Or as indicated above if Dad Jill and Jack are in the room the family interaction engine may display information about shows or activities of interest to that specific group of users.

The family interaction engine may recognize users in the room through a combination of methods and may then dynamically configure the family channel to tailor both the type of containers e.g. applications widgets feeds as well as the type of content that would be preferred e.g. type of application type of feed etc. . The family interaction engine may determine the area shape and display properties for each container from a pallet of options and may then use those containers to display content on the screen. The family interaction engine may also refresh and change the content as new and relevant information becomes available for display. The family interaction engine may also provide settings that can be modified by users to control characteristics of the display e.g. to set timing and transition effects .

The family interaction engine may automatically present the family channel when the tablet is at rest e.g. when docked or charging while one or more members of the family are present . In addition or alternatively a user may manually invoke or launch the family channel for instance by selecting an application a system widget a menu item or any other suitable trigger mechanism.

As indicated above depicts an example screen shot showing one example of the kinds of blended family content which the family interaction engine may display on the tablet. In one embodiment the information and media rotate through at periodic intervals until the tablet meets sleep state criteria or until active engagement by a person. One of the containers e.g. picture panel may operate similarly to computer screen saver or an electronic picture frame cycling through a set of pictures. However other containers include other kinds of information with the family channel including an amalgamation of content expected to be of broad interest to members of the family based on stated preferences from individual user profiles and from the family user profile relevant situational context observed usage behavior for individual accounts and for the family user account etc. For instance the family interaction engine may dynamically configure the family channel to present news applications video and audio media items photographs calendar items and other types of content that has broad interest to family members. Furthermore in addition to changing specific content items the family interaction engine automatically changes containers and general content categories or genres displayed on the family channel. Consequently the blended content may be unique and compelling to each family and the family channel may serve as a window into the family s interests.

In addition the family channel may serve as a conduit to display family information. A service could collect information from and distribute information to all devices owned by family members. For instance if Mom and Dad each own a smartphone Mom and Dad may load a family interaction application e.g. the family interaction engine onto those phones and then use those phones to subscribe to a family channel service. In one embodiment the family channel service is hosted by one or more remote devices and the tablet and or other individual local devices can be used to configure the service. The family channel service could then receive information from and provide information to the family channel application on each phone. For example as described in greater detail below local and remote devices may cooperate according to the computing model referred to in general as the cloud. 

In one embodiment the family channel service ensures that the information provided to each device is contextually relevant for that device. For instance the family channel service may adapt the content and information for the smaller sized screen of the smartphone and the family channel service may limit and prioritize the information so that a smaller number of content items that match that user s preferences and interests are displayed. The family channel service may also consider the current location and activity of the user when deciding what information and content to provide including different types of news items videos music and applications . Additionally the family channel service may relay the user s current location and activity to the tablet so a user of the tablet can know where the smartphone user is and what he or she is doing.

Thus family information could be distributed widely to all family members via their devices. For instance if Mom updates her status in a social networking application the family channel service might automatically add a container for the social networking application to the family channel for all subscribed devices and then populate that container with Mom s status information.

As indicated at block the application tailoring module may then use any suitable technique to automatically identify the current user. For instance the application tailoring module may use voice recognition and or face recognition to determine which user is currently using the tablet as indicated above.

In an example scenario Mom and Dad while sitting on a couch in the living room are using the tablet to control a video player application on the tablet. In particular the video player application has been configured to cooperate or integrate with a separate home theater system in the living room. Alternatively applications may be configured to cooperate or integrate with other external or remote device including without limitation external media devices such as televisions video game consoles streaming video players audio receivers etc. In another scenario applications may be configured to present both media and supplemental data on the tablet. In the example scenario Mom has used the video player application to cause a selected program to be presented by a separate home theater system in the living room. Then Mom and Dad may pass the tablet back and forth while watching that program e.g. the Olympics .

When Mom first picks up the tablet to turn on the Olympics the application tailoring module may use the tablet s camera to automatically detect that Mom is the current user. The tablet may also automatically login the current user if necessary as described above with regard to hand offs.

As shown at blocks and the application tailoring module may then consult the user profile for the current user to identify any preferences for the current user that are relevant to the application. As indicated above the application tailoring module may obtain the user preferences from the user profile and or from a digital persona. In addition or alternatively the application tailoring module may obtain the user preferences from a context framework. In addition when the application tailoring module saves state data for a user as indicated below the application tailoring module may save that state data to the context framework. The context framework may be implemented using any suitable system for storing data. The application tailoring module may communicate and cooperate with the context framework service via an API. This API may enable developers to leverage user information to build more feature rich applications.

In one scenario the user profile for Mom indicates that when watching a sports program Mom is generally interested in and likes the tablet to present certain kinds of supplemental data pertaining to the program. For instance Mom s profile may indicate that Mom likes to see data about the venue for the event the historic significance of the venue which celebrities are attending the event and which company created the athletic uniforms. Mom s profile may also identify user preferences that are relevant to specific applications. For instance Mom s profile may identify preferred settings e.g. level of difficulty controller settings etc. for different game applications. Game controller settings may also be considered user interface settings. Mom s profile may also identify preferred user interface settings or other application settings for other applications. For example Mom s profile may specify a default folder for storing or retrieving data for a word processing application a default home page for a web browser application etc. Mom s profile may also identify preferences with regard to media applications. For example Mom s profile may identify favorite movies and or type of movies for a video service application favorite songs or types of songs for a music streaming service etc.

As shown at block the application tailoring module may also determine the current context including without limitation the location of the tablet which users are near the tablet the type of activity in process the genre of any media being presented and other details about media being presented such as the identity of any participants in the media e.g. sports teams actors etc. .

In the example scenario the context may indicate that the user is alone watching a sporting event e.g. the Olympics on a television at home in the living room. The application tailoring module may then tailor the application for the current user and the current context based on the data from the user profile and the current context data as indicated at block . For instance in the example scenario the application tailoring module may determine appropriate supplemental content based on the context etc. and the application tailoring module may cause the video player application to display that supplemental content e.g. data pertaining to the Olympic venue etc. Thus the tablet may present interesting trivia relevant to whatever is being shown on the television based on the known interests of the current user. Also the application tailoring module and or the video player application may be configured to cause the supplemental data to be presented on the tablet on the home theater system or both. Similarly in a scenario involving a game application the application tailoring module may automatically configure game difficulty game controller settings and or other preferences for the game for the current user.

Moreover the family interaction engine may automatically update a user profile and or the digital persona associated with a particular user based on observed behavior of that user. For example the family interaction engine may detect based on observed activity of a user that the user tends to view a content items involving world news business news and stock prices in the morning b current social network postings around lunchtime and c entertainment based content or sports recaps in the evening. Consequently the application tailoring module may benefit from this kind of automatic learning with the ability to automatically tailor applications automatically improving over time.

As shown at block the application tailoring module may then determine whether the tablet has been transferred or handed off to a different user. If no transfer is detected the application tailoring module may determine whether the context has changed as shown at block . For instance the application tailoring module may determine that the broadcast has shifted to a different venue e.g. from a mountain for a ski race to an ice rink for a skating contest or that the user has selected a different program altogether e.g. a western movie . Other kinds of context changes may include a moving from one room in the house to another e.g. from the living room to the kitchen with recommended content changing from TV entertainment to recipes b other people coming into proximity of the tablet c the time of day changing or d moving to a different location altogether e.g. from the house to the car . For example the user profile may indicate that the user is interested in one kind of content in the morning e.g. financial news and then a different kind of content in the evening e.g. sports or comedies . If the context has changed the process may return to block and the application tailoring module may automatically adjust the tailoring parameters according to the new context. For instance if Mom has changed the channel from the Olympics to a western movie the application tailoring module may configure the video player application to display supplemental data that provides information about the actors in the movie based on user profile data indicating that Mom is interested in that kind of information.

However referring again to block if a transfer to a new user is detected whoever was just using the tablet may then be considered the previous user and the new user may be considered the current user. As shown at block the application tailoring module may then cause the tablet to save state data for the previous user. The state data that is saved may include a copy of the existing state of the tablet possibly the same as or similar to the data saved when a laptop goes to sleep the list of applications and services in use and their associated data settings the GUI artifacts that were being displayed an enumeration or history of the actions that last occurred on the tablet the position of open media files e.g. movies songs etc. This would allow for the re enablement of existing state either on the same device or potentially on other devices with compatible capabilities. If the current user or second user subsequently hands the tablet back to the previous user or first user the application tailoring module may retrieve the saved state data for the first user and reconfigure the tablet back to the state that existed before the first user handed the tablet to the second user. For example after the second user hands the tablet back to the first user the process may return to block and when the application tailoring module recognizes that the first user is now the current user the application tailoring module may retrieve the state data that was saved for the first user. In some cases after the tablet has been transferred the tablet may be unable to determine who the new current user is. Such a handoff may be referred to as an incomplete or unsuccessful handoff. After an incomplete handoff if the tablet is handed back to the first user the tablet may automatically re authenticate the first user and may then restore the state for the first user as indicated above without saving any state for the unidentified second user.

However referring again to block in conjunction with saving state for an identified previous user the family interaction engine may also update the profile for the previous user based on the recent interactions as shown at block . For instance if the behavior of the previous user included numerous interactions with supplemental data pertaining to ice skating the family interaction engine may update the user profile of the previous user to identify ice skating as an interest of the previous user. The process may then return to block and the application tailoring module may identify the current user and consult the user profile for that individual etc. as indicated above.

For example the application tailoring module may determine that Dad is now the current user and the application tailoring module may determine that Dad is interested in sports statistics and that he is generally interested in athletes from the United State. And the context data may indicate that the user is watching the Olympics on a television at home. After aggregating all of these facts and preferences together the tablet may determine that the user would appreciate sports statistics for the athletes from the U.S. and may display that type of supplemental content to the user. The augmented information now shown on the tablet is based on Dad s interests for the very same event using the very same application. For instance new data and diagrams could melt or flow into the video player application frame and provide augmented data to delight Dad. In other words the application tailoring module may reconfigure the video player application without disengaging or starting the video player application. The application tailoring module may cause the video player application to incorporate the supplemental data for the new user into the flow of the currently running application.

In another scenario Mom and Dad may be passing the tablet back and forth while using a social networking application. When Mom is holding the tablet posts and updates from her friends and social network are displayed. However when Mom gives the tablet to Dad the social networking application instantly refreshes to show Dad s recent postings his friends and their updates. Also their user profiles may indicate that Mom prefers the social networking application to sort status updates based on importance and Dad prefers the social networking application to sort status updates based on time. Accordingly when Mom is holding the tablet the application tailoring module may configure the social networking application to show the most important status updates at the top. And when Dad is holding the tablet the application tailoring module may configure the social networking application to show the most recent status updates at the top.

In another scenario Mom and Dad may be passing the tablet back and forth while using a word processing application. Also their user profiles may indicate that Mom uses one default folder and Dad uses a different default folder. Accordingly when Mom is holding the tablet the application tailoring module may cause the word processing application to use Mom s default folder. And when Dad is holding the tablet the application tailoring module may cause the word processing application to use Dad s default folder.

Other potential scenarios include a a news aggregator application and the user profiles may indicate that Dad prefers sports news and scores from local teams while Mom prefers design and architecture news and Jill prefers entertainment celebrity news b a streaming music player and the user profiles may indicate that Dad prefers classical Mom prefers jazz and Jack prefers pop c a computer game that automatically loads levels saved games and player attributes for the current user etc.

A tablet smartphone or other data processing system may have hundreds of applications installed on the platform. To navigate and get to a specific application that a user needs while on the go becomes increasingly time consuming. Shortcuts or links to launch applications may be organized by categories in a hierarchy or alphabetically ordered in a flat structure. In a convention data processing system the organization is fixed and does not change according to the dynamic context of the platform.

The flowchart of illustrates an example embodiment of a process for automatically ranking applications for presentation. That process may begin with an individual user signed in to the tablet. As shown at block the tablet may store preferences for the current user. For example application ranking module may provide an interface for the user to pre populate the application activation matrix described below with information about the applications that the user utilizes most frequently in different situations. That interface may also allow the user to specify different contexts that are important or relevant for one or more applications such as an at home context an at work context a commuting context a traveling context an at a caf context etc. Accordingly the user may also store data that identifies a music player application as a preferred application whenever the user is commuting to and from work for example. Thus the application activation matrix may be initialized by the user with default values. For instance the application ranking module may use this data from the user to create a default application activation matrix. Subsequently as described in greater detail below the application ranking module may automatically adjust the application activation matrix in response to observed usage patterns of the user. In one embodiment the application ranking module uses a separate application monitoring process AMP to track application usage and device context and to continuously maintain and update the application activation matrix. The AMP may run in the background of the tablet and provide information on what applications are running for how long what content has been played and so forth. The application ranking module may then use this information to update the application activation matrix to correlate the device usage with the current user profile and the current general context. Thus the AMP provides basic information pertaining to the applications being used and the application ranking module uses that information to maintain the application activation matrix and the probability transition matrix.

In another scenario the user may be logged in to the family user account and the user may then set parameters for that account. The application ranking module may maintain separate data for each different user. For instance the application ranking module may build a personalized application activation matrix for each user and may refine the application activation matrix over time to support easy access to each user s favorite and most useful applications and content at the right time and location.

The application ranking module may support such functionality by automatically learning users preferences through monitoring and building a probability transition matrix between applications that is context dependent. The probability transition matrix may be referred to as an application activation matrix. The application ranking module may monitor and track aspects of context including without limitation semantic location time of day activity e.g. driving dining etc. . For purposes of this disclosure the term semantic location denotes the location of the tablet and the user as relevant to the activity of the user. For instance the application activation matrix may identify the semantic location as in the living room in the kitchen at home at the office at the gym at the grocery store at a bookshop at the library at school at a caf at an airport at a bus stop commuting on a train commuting in a car etc.

In one scenario the application activation matrix may indicate that if the tablet is being used at an airport there is a high probability that the user will want to launch a travel application from a home screen. The application activation matrix may also indicate that while the user is browsing within the travel application if the time is close to meal time the probability of jumping to a food recommendation application is high. And the application ranking module may determine that if the time is close to the user s flight boarding time the shortcut to put the device into airplane mode should be on the top of the application list. Another example is for the application ranking module to bring a data usage application to the top when the user is browsing the web or streaming video through a third generation or fourth generation 3G 4G connection so the user can easily monitor his or her data usage to avoid exceeding data plan limits. Accordingly the application ranking module may present a tailored list of applications that includes only the applications with a relatively high likelihood of being desired in ranked order of predicted activation.

In addition the application ranking module may associate the current time with calendar events and may rank applications based on such associations. Such calendar events may include events such as birthday celebrations wedding anniversaries flight boarding times etc. In particular the application ranking module may use the calendar data to interpret the time context that is stored in the application activation matrix for calendar events. For example the application ranking module may cross reference the current time with the third row in the application activation matrix of to determine that it is boarding time for a scheduled flight and that the airplane mode widget is the top ranked application in that context.

In the embodiment of the first and second rows indicate that if the user is driving the probability that the user will want to launch or use a map application is fairly high 70 and the probability that the user will want to use an email application is low 10 . The third row indicates that if the application ranking module determines that the user is about to board a plane based on the user being in an airport and the current time being near the scheduled boarding time as reflected in calendar data for the user there is a high probability 97 that the user will want to access a widget for placing the tablet in airplane mode. The remaining rows associate transition probabilities for potential next applications with other semantic locations times activities and current applications.

In one embodiment the application ranking module enables the user to associate different times or time periods with corresponding high level semantic meanings that are personalized to the user. The application ranking module may also automatically link high level semantics meanings with different time periods based on observed usage patterns. For example the application ranking module may learn that weekdays from 8 00 to 8 30 AM and from 6 00 to 6 30 PM are the user s typical commute times. Similarly the application ranking module may record data indicating that 8 00 AM 1 00 PM and 6 00 PM are the user s typical meal times during weekdays and 10 00 AM 2 00 PM and 8 00 PM are the user s typical meal times during weekends holidays.

Referring again to as depicted at block the application ranking module may monitor the context of the tablet e.g. the current application the current time the current semantic location and the current activity . When the context changes the application ranking module may automatically record the current context attributes as shown at block . Those context attributes may include without limitation the current application the current time the current semantic location and the type of activity being engaged in by the user. For instance the application ranking module may determine the present semantic location by reverse geocoding the GPS coordinates using a web mapping service application such as the one known as Google Maps. The application ranking module may determine the present activity by interpreting motion sensing data e.g. from accelerometer gyro etc. available on the tablet for instance. In addition as indicated at block the application ranking module may automatically evaluate the probability of activation for each of the applications that are installed on the tablet based on the current context. As shown at block after evaluating the probabilities of activation for each application the application ranking module may then create the context application list based on the application activation matrix and the current context data. For example when building the context application list the application ranking module may omit any rows associated with a time an activity a semantic location or a current application that differs from the current context. Also when creating the context application list the application ranking module may order the rows in the list in decreasing order of transition probability.

In addition as described in greater detail below the application ranking module may include or cooperate with a UI for accepting voice based input. As shown at block whenever the context application list changes the application ranking module may cause that voice based UI to constrain or limit the vocabulary to be used for interpreting spoken input based on meta data for the current application and a certain number e.g. one or two of the currently top ranked next applications.

As depicted at block the tablet may then determine whether application activation has been requested. In other words the application ranking module may determine whether the user has launched or resumed use of an application other than the current application. If application activation has been requested the application ranking module may update the activation matrix accordingly as shown at block . For instance if the requested application is being launched for the first time the application ranking module may create a new row in the application activation matrix to identify the requested application as the next application along with data on the present context attributes e.g. the current semantic location time activity and application . The application ranking module may also add a new row if the requested application is being launched for the first time in a particular context. Or if the application activation matrix already contains a row for the requested next application in the current context the application ranking module may update or adjust the transition probability for that row as well as the transition probabilities for any other next applications with rows for the current context. Consequently the application ranking module may automatically adapt to changing user preferences. After updating the application activation matrix the application ranking module may launch or otherwise activate the requested application as shown at block . Then since the current application has changed and the current application is part of the context the process may pass to block with the application ranking module recording the new context attributes re evaluating application activation probabilities and revising or recreating the context application list as described above.

However referring again to block if application activation has not been requested the application ranking module may determine whether the user has requested a ranked application list as indicated at block . If the user has requested a list of ranked applications the application ranking module may present the list of ranked application on the tablet as shown at block . For instance the application ranking module may present links or shortcuts to each of the applications in the ranked application list ranked in decreasing order of transition probability. For purposes of this disclosure the terms link and shortcut may be used to refer to icons buttons items in a drop down list or any other type of object or item presented by a data processing system to enable the user to activate an application or other content item. The process may then pass through connector C to block and the application ranking module may determine whether the user has selected one of the listed applications for activation. If the user has selected an application for activation the application ranking module may process that request as described above with respect to blocks etc.

Referring again to block in a relatively basic embodiment to request the ranked application list the user may touch a specific region on the screen press a button on the screen or press a physical hotkey on the device. In an advanced embodiment the application ranking module may make the ranked application list accessible through a UI that recognizes gestures. For example the UI may enable the user to navigate sequentially through shortcuts to the applications in the ranked application list by making a particular gesture or movement including without limitation by a holding the tablet with two hands on the two short edges and shaking the device back and forth towards the left and right or up and down or b simply shaking the tablet to advance in the list. In one embodiment a gesture UI may allow the user to cycle through a predetermined number e.g. three of shortcuts to top ranked applications for the current context via natural gestures.

In one embodiment instead of displaying contextually relevant applications in a list the application ranking module may organize the applications or shortcuts to the applications graphically to stress relevance. For example in one embodiment applications that are most relevant could be displayed on the first page of the home screen and less relevant applications could be displayed off screen e.g. on other pages of the home screen . In a different embodiment the most relevant applications could be displayed along with content in the home screen UI for example as graphical user interface GUI widgets. For instance a widget of a video streaming application can be presented showing in its box the latest releases or the movies that are suggested for the current user by the video streaming application.

In another embodiment the application ranking module may keep a widget on the home screen where the widget always include a shortcut to the top ranked next application. The application ranking module my thereby enable the user to activate the top ranked application with a single click touch or gesture.

However referring again to block if the user has not requested a ranked application list the process may pass to block which shows the application ranking module determining whether the tablet has received voice input or spoken input.

As indicated above the application ranking module may include or cooperate with a voice based UI that utilizes meta data from a predetermined number of top ranked applications e.g. one two three or more to constrain the vocabulary for interpreting the spoken input. If voice input has been received the voice based UI may use the constrained vocabulary to interpret that voice input as depicted at block . For example the voice based UI may be part of the OS and user may use the constrained vocabulary to launch one of the top ranked applications. Alternatively the user may use the constrained vocabulary to activate a feature supported by one of the top ranked applications e.g. call home .

By enabling the voice based UI to constrain the vocabulary to a certain number of the applications that are most likely to be used in the current context the application ranking module may help to provide for improve command recognition accuracy in noisy environments e.g. at an airport .

After the voice input has been interpreted or if no voice input is received the process may return to block through connector D and the application ranking module may continue adapting to changing conditions as indicated above. Thus as has been described the application ranking module uses context awareness to improve the organization and presentation of shortcuts to applications. By learning and adapting to user preferences and activities observed over time the application ranking module provides for a UI experience that is optimized and personalized for each different user. As indicated above the application ranking module also supports a one click or one gesture experience to activate one s most useful application at any place anytime.

In one embodiment the application activation matrix also includes data concerning specific items or types of content such as favorite songs movies artists etc. and based on that data and the current context data the application ranking module automatically includes one or more of those content items in the ranked list of applications if appropriate. For instance if the application activation matrix indicates that Dad usually plays a certain song when driving home from work on Friday the application ranking module may present that song at or near the top of the list of ranked applications in response to detecting that Dad is driving home on a Friday. Similarly an in progress movie could be included in the list of ranked applications when the data processing system detects that the user in a context conducive for watching a movie such as on the train.

Any suitable operating environment and programming language or combination of operating environments and programming languages may be used to implement components described herein. For example in one embodiment some or all of the family interaction engine is written in the object oriented programming language known as Java and some or all the family interaction engine runs on top of a more or less conventional personal computer OS on the tablet. The application ranking module may be implemented as an application manager the voice based UI may be implemented as a digital personal assistant and they may work together via any inter process communication IPC mechanisms available on the platform. In another embodiment some or all of the family interaction engine is written in a combination of the scripting languages known as PHP and JavaScript and the family interaction functionalities are split between a local client and an engine that runs on top of a Unix like OS on a remote server. For example basic UI functions of the family interaction engine may be performed by a web browser on a client device while other functions are performed on one or more remote servers. In other embodiments other types of programming languages and operating environments may be used.

In light of the principles and example embodiments described and illustrated herein it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. Also the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments but other configurations are contemplated. Also even though expressions such as an embodiment one embodiment another embodiment or the like are used herein these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations. As used herein these phrases may reference the same embodiment or different embodiments and those embodiments are combinable into other embodiments.

As used herein the terms processing system and data processing system are intended to broadly encompass a single machine or a system of communicatively coupled machines or devices operating together. For instance two or more machines may cooperate using one or more variations on a peer to peer model a client server model or a cloud computing model to provide some or all of the functionality described herein. Those variations on the cloud computing model may include the computing service architectures referred to as infrastructure as a service IAAS platform as a service PAAS software as a service SAAS or any other suitable architecture. For instance a television may include minimal compute and storage resources and the television may use one or more applications storage space and other computing resources on one or more remote devices to provide some or all of the functionality described herein. Similarly applications and or other data e.g. user profiles that are described above as residing on a particular device in one example embodiment may in other embodiments reside on one or more other devices. And computing operations that are described above as being performed on one particular device in one example embodiment may in other embodiments be executed by one or more other devices. The device or devices which cooperate to form the data processing system may provide a user experience that is familiar across different user interface devices while also being tailored to those different user interface devices. For instance a tablet with one or more sensors may send data to a remote device in the cloud and that remote device may host the family interaction engine. The hosted family interaction engine may determine which users if any are near the tablet based on the sensor data received from the tablet. Thus the family interaction engine may exist as a service independently of the tablet. Other logical component or modules may also be implemented as remotely hosted services. In one embodiment using the cloud computing model the individual profiles for the family members are stored outside of the tablet e.g. in the cloud and individual profiles are copied transmitted or pushed down to devices as needed. For instance a smartphone may send an image of the face of the current user to the cloud and in response the cloud may determine which user has that face and may then send the individual profile for that user to the smartphone. Also users may be designated as members of a family and one or more tablets or other devices the family may be designated as belonging to that same family. Also the family interaction engine may blend all of the individual profiles that were designated as part of a family in the cloud to create the family profile and the family interaction engine may push that family profile down to each device belonging to the family. The family interaction engine may also regularly push down updates to the individual profiles and the family profile. Consequently when a person or visitor borrows a tablet or other device from someone else the tablet may initially allow access via a guest account. However if the family interaction engine in the cloud is able to identify the visitor and find a profile for the visitor the family interaction engine may push that profile down to the tablet. The tablet may then automatically reconfigure itself based on the visitor s profile. However the tablet may be configured with restricted permission for certain users for instance to prevent access to the printer and or other devices and functions.

Example data processing systems include without limitation distributed computing systems supercomputers high performance computing systems computing clusters mainframe computers mini computers client server systems personal computers PCs workstations servers portable computers laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs telephones handheld devices entertainment devices such as audio devices video devices audio video devices e.g. televisions and set top boxes vehicular processing systems and other devices for processing or transmitting information. Accordingly unless explicitly specified otherwise or required by the context references to any particular type of data processing system e.g. a tablet should be understood as encompassing other types of data processing systems as well.

Also unless expressly specified otherwise components that are described as being coupled to each other in communication with each other responsive to each other or the like need not be in continuous communication with each other and need not be directly coupled to each other. In addition some components of the data processing system may be implemented as adapter cards with interfaces e.g. a connector for communicating with a bus. Alternatively devices or components may be implemented as embedded controllers using components such as programmable or non programmable logic devices or arrays application specific integrated circuits ASICs embedded computers smart cards and the like. For purposes of this disclosure the term bus includes pathways that may be shared by more than two devices as well as point to point pathways.

This disclosure may refer to instructions functions procedures data structures application programs configuration settings and other kinds of data. As described above when the data is accessed by a machine the machine may respond by performing tasks defining abstract data types or low level hardware contexts and or performing other operations. For instance data storage RAM and or flash memory may include various sets of instructions which when executed perform various operations. Such sets of instructions may be referred to in general as software. In addition the term program may be used in general to cover a broad range of software constructs including applications routines modules drivers subprograms processes and other types of software components.

It should also be understood that the hardware and software components depicted herein represent functional elements that are reasonably self contained so that each can be designed constructed or updated substantially independently of the others. In alternative embodiments many of the components may be implemented as hardware software or combinations of hardware and software for providing the functionality described and illustrated herein. For example alternative embodiments include machine accessible media encoding instructions or control logic for performing the operations of the invention. Such embodiments may also be referred to as program products. Such machine accessible media may include without limitation tangible storage media such as magnetic disks optical disks RAM read only memory ROM etc. For purposes of this disclosure the term ROM may be used in general to refer to non volatile memory devices such as erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash ROM flash memory etc. In some embodiments some or all of the control logic for implementing the described operations may be implemented in hardware logic e.g. as part of an integrated circuit chip a programmable gate array PGA an ASIC etc. . In at least one embodiment the instructions for all components may be stored in one non transitory machine accessible medium. In at least one other embodiment two or more non transitory machine accessible media may be used for storing the instructions for the components. For instance instructions for one component may be stored in one medium and instructions another component may be stored in another medium. Alternatively a portion of the instructions for one component may be stored in one medium and the rest of the instructions for that component as well instructions for other components may be stored in one or more other media. Instructions may also be used in a distributed environment and may be stored locally and or remotely for access by single or multi processor machines.

Also although one or more example processes have been described with regard to particular operations performed in a particular sequence numerous modifications could be applied to those processes to derive numerous alternative embodiments of the present invention. For example alternative embodiments may include processes that use fewer than all of the disclosed operations process that use additional operations and processes in which the individual operations disclosed herein are combined subdivided rearranged or otherwise altered.

In view of the wide variety of useful permutations that may be readily derived from the example embodiments described herein this detailed description is intended to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. Instead the scope of the invention is intended to cover many different embodiments including without limitation embodiments with the features described in the following paragraphs.

 A1 A method facilitates multi user interaction with a data processing system. The method involves a data processing system with individual user profiles for respective individual users and with a family user profile for a collective family user. The data processing system automatically determines a first set of content items for a family channel based at least in part on the family user profile. The data processing system automatically presents the family channel when the family user profile is open. After automatically determining the first set of content items for the family channel one of the individual user profiles is modified based on interaction with the data processing system by the corresponding individual user. After modifying the individual user profile the family user profile is automatically modified based on the modified individual user profile. The data processing system automatically determines a second set of content items for the family channel based at least in part on the modified family user profile.

 A2 A method according to paragraph A1 further comprises automatically determining whether all of the individual user profiles are inactive and automatically presenting the family channel in response to a determination that all of the individual user profiles are inactive.

 A3 A method according to paragraph A1 further comprises automatically cycling through different items from the first set of content items when presenting the family channel on the data processing system.

 A4 In a method according to paragraph A1 the second set of content items comprises at least two items from the group consisting of a calendar event a photo a video a favored music file and weather information.

 A5 In a method according to paragraph A1 the individual user profiles comprise a first user profile for a first user and a second user profile for a second user. And the method further comprises after the first user has signed in to the data processing system presenting a first set of recommendations for content predicted to be of interest to the first user presenting the first user with an option for selecting the second user to be included for purposes of recommendations and receiving input from the first user selecting the second user to be included for purposes of recommendations and in response to receiving the input from the first user selecting the second user to be included for purposes of recommendations automatically presenting at least one recommendation from a second set of recommendations for content predicted to be of interest to the first user and the second user.

 A6 A method according to paragraph A5 further comprises in response to receiving the input from the first user selecting the second user to be included for purposes of recommendations automatically determining the second set of recommendations for content predicted to be of interest to the first user and the second user.

 A7 A method according to paragraph A5 further comprises automatically determining content items for a home screen of the first user and automatically including among the content items for the home screen of the first user at least one recommendation for content predicted to be of interest to the first user.

 A8 In a method according to paragraph A5 the operation of presenting the first user with an option for selecting a second user to be included for purposes of recommendations comprises presenting a selectable identifier for the second user and the operation of automatically presenting at least one recommendation from a second set of recommendations for content predicted to be of interest to the first user and the second user is performed in response to user input selecting the selectable identifier for the second user.

 A9 In a method according to paragraph A8 the operation of presenting a selectable identifier for the second user comprises presenting selectable identifiers for all users with user profiles on the data processing system.

 A10 A method according to paragraph A5 further comprises in response to receiving the input from the first user selecting the second user to be included for purposes of recommendations automatically notifying a remote application that the second user has been selected to be included for purposes of recommendations and after notifying the remote application that the second user has been selected to be included for purposes of recommendations receiving the second set of recommendations from the remote application. And the operation of automatically presenting at least one recommendation from a second set of recommendations for content predicted to be of interest to the first user and the second user is performed in response to receiving the second set of recommendations from the remote application.

 A11 A method according to paragraph A5 further comprises automatically detecting whether a person with a user profile for the data processing system is near the data processing system and in response to automatically detecting that a person with a user profile for the data processing system is near the data processing system automatically causing the detected person to be included for purposes of recommendations.

 A12 A method according to claim paragraph A11 further comprises presenting the first user with an option for activating automatic group recommendations and receiving user input selecting the option for activating automatic group recommendations. And the operation of automatically detecting whether a person with a user profile for the data processing system is near the data processing system is performed in response to receiving the user input selecting the option for activating automatic group recommendations.

 B1 Another method facilitates multi user interaction with a data processing system. The method involves a data processing system with multiple content items with multiple individual user accounts for multiple respective individual users with a corresponding individual user profile for each individual user account with a family user account for a collective family user and with a family user profile corresponding to the family user account. According to the method one of the individual user accounts is opened in response to a current user logging in to the data processing system. In response to a determination that the current user has selected a content item among the multiple content items for sharing the data processing system presents one or more selectable user identifiers for one or more other individual users and the data processing system presents a selectable user identifier for the family user. In response to determining that the current user has selected the user identifier for the family user the family user profile is automatically modified to identify the selected content item as having been shared with the family user. And when the family user account is open the data processing system displays a home screen for the family user that contains information about the selected content item that was shared with the family user.

 B2 A method according to paragraph B1 further comprises in response to determining that the current user has selected a user identifier for another individual user automatically modifying the corresponding individual user profile to identify the selected content item as having been shared with the selected individual user and when the user account for the selected individual user is open displaying a home screen for the selected individual user that contains information about the selected content item that was shared with the selected individual user.

 B3 In a method according to paragraph B1 the data processing system comprises a list of contacts for the current user and the method further comprises receiving user input that selects at least one individual from the list of contacts for inclusion as a potential recipient.

 B4 A method according to paragraph B1 further comprises automatically detecting one or more remote devices near the data processing system presenting one or more selectable device identifiers for the one or more remote devices and in response to determining that the current user has selected a device identifier automatically sending the selected content item to the selected device.

 B5 A method according to paragraph B4 further comprises automatically determining a direction from the data processing system to at least one of the remote devices automatically determining whether the current user has moved the identifier for the selected content item towards one of the remote devices and in response to determining that the current user has moved the identifier for the selected content item towards one of the remote devices automatically sending the selected content item to the remote device towards which the identifier for the selected content item was moved.

 B6 A method according to paragraph B5 further comprising saving a configuration setting that selects among multiple content display options for the user account of the current user. Also the content display options comprise a first option configuring the data processing system to automatically display content that has been sent to the data processing system and a second option configuring the data processing system to automatically display a notification that content has been sent to the data processing system.

 B7 A method according to paragraph B4 further comprises presenting multiple sharing options for the selected content item wherein the multiple sharing options comprise at least one identifier for a first set of potential recipients for the selected content item and at least one identifier for a second set of potential recipients for the selected content item. The at least one identifier for the first set of potential recipients comprises at least one of the user identifiers. The at least one identifier for the second set of potential recipients comprises at least one of the device identifiers.

 B8 In a method according to paragraph B7 the user identifiers comprise a name and a picture for at least one of the other individual users and the at least one device identifier comprises a name and a picture for at least one individual user associated with at least one of the other devices.

 B9 A method according to paragraph B4 further comprises presenting at least two different sets of potential recipients for selected content item wherein first set of potential recipients comprises at least one of the user identifiers and the second set of potential recipients comprises at least one of the device identifiers.

 B10 In a method according to paragraph B1 the data processing system performs the operation of presenting one or more selectable user identifiers for one or more respective other individual users and presenting a selectable user identifier for the family user in response to the current user selecting the content item for sharing. Also the method further comprises determining that the current user has selected the content item for sharing in response to a determination that the current user has dragged an identifier for the selected content item to an edge of a display for the data processing system.

 B11 In a method according to paragraph B1 the current user comprises a first user the one or more selectable user identifiers comprise an identifier for a second user and the method further comprises automatically determining whether the first user is hovering an identifier for the selected content item over the identifier for the second user in response to determining that the first user is hovering the identifier for the selected content item over the identifier for the second user automatically presenting the first user with options for selecting among multiple devices associated with the second user and in response to determining that the first user has selected one of devices associated with the second user automatically sending the selected content item to the selected device associated with the second user.

 B12 In a method according to paragraph B1 the individual users comprise first and second members of a family the selected content item comprises a video featuring the first member of the family and the operation of when the family user account is open displaying a home screen for the family user that contains information about the selected content item that was shared with the family user comprises automatically presenting at least part of the video featuring the first member of the family in a widget item on the home screen for the family user.

 C1 Another method facilitates multi user interaction with a data processing system. The method involves a data processing system with a first user profile for a first user and a second user profile for a second user. The method comprises the operations of automatically determining when the first user profile is open whether the first user has handed the data processing system to another person and in response to determining that the first user has handed the data processing system to another person automatically determining an identity of the other person and automatically presenting transfer options on the data processing system. And when the other person comprises the second user the transfer options comprise an identifier for the first user and an identifier for the second user and the transfer options provide for selection from among at least two options from the group consisting of keeping the first user profile open automatically signing the first user out and signing the second user in and temporarily opening the second user profile without signing the first user out.

 C2 A method according to paragraph C1 further comprises in response to user selection of one of the transfer options automatically executing the selected transfer option.

 C3 A method according to paragraph C1 further comprises in response to detecting that the identifier for the second user has been pushed off of the display determining that the option for keeping the first user profile open has been selected and in response to detecting that the identifier for the first user has been pushed off of the display determining that the option for automatically signing the first user out and signing the second user in has been selected.

 C4 A method according to paragraph C3 further comprises in response to detecting that the identifier for the second user has been pulled toward the center of the display determining that the option for temporarily opening the user profile for the second user without signing the first user out has been selected.

 C5 In a method according to paragraph C1 the transfer options further provide for selection of an option to keep the first user profile open while adding the second user to a recommendation group.

 C6 A method according to paragraph C5 further comprises in response to detecting that the identifier for the second user has been selected determining that the option to keep the first user profile open while adding the second user to the recommendation group has been selected.

 C7 A method according to paragraph C1 further comprises in response to expiration of a predetermined time period without the identifiers for the first and second users being selected determining that the option for keeping the first user profile open has been selected and automatically removing the identifiers for the first and second users from the display.

 C8 In a method according to paragraph C1 the operation of automatically determining an identity of the other person comprises automatically using at least one technology from the group consisting of face recognition technology and voice recognition technology to determine the identity of the other person.

 D1 Another method facilitates multi user interaction with a data processing system. The method involves a data processing system with individual profiles for respective individual users and with a family profile for a collective family user. The method comprises the operations of automatically detecting whether a person is near the data processing system and in response to detecting the person near the data processing system automatically determining whether the detected person is one of the individual users with individual profiles on the data processing system. The method also comprises in response to a determination that the detected person is one of the individual users with individual profiles on the data processing system automatically determining a set of content items to be presented based at least in part on a combination of information from the individual profile for the detected person and information from the family profile. The method also comprises after determining a set of content items to be presented automatically causing at least some of the items from the set of content items to be presented.

 D2 In a method according to paragraph D1 the operation of automatically determining a set of content items to be presented comprises recognizing interests of the family user and interests of the detected person evaluating potential content items with regard to relevance to the recognized interests of the family user evaluating potential content items with regard to relevance to the recognized interests of the detected person including potential content items with high relevance to the recognized interests of the family user in the set of content items to be presented and including potential content items with high relevance to the recognized interests of the detected person in the set of content items to be presented.

 D3 In a method according to paragraph D2 the operation of automatically determining a set of content items to be presented comprises analyzing potential content items from multiple sources with regard to relevance to at least one factor from the group consisting of the recognized interests of the family user and the recognized interests of the detected person.

 D4 In a method according to paragraph D3 the multiple sources comprise at least one source from the group consisting of predetermined preferences for at least one individual user predetermined preferences for the family user behavior observation data and a digital persona service.

 D5 A method according to paragraph D1 further comprises after automatically causing at least some of the items from the set of content items to be presented automatically determining whether a newer content item is available and in response to a determination that a newer content item is available automatically causing the newer content item to be presented in place of an older content item.

 D6 A method according to paragraph D1 further comprises after automatically causing at least some of the items from the set of content items to be presented automatically determining whether context of the data processing system has changed and in response to a determination that context of the data processing system has changed automatically modifying the set of content items to be presented based at least in part on the changed context.

 D7 A method according to paragraph D1 further comprises automatically determining a set of container objects to be presented in a family channel based at least in part on predetermined user settings organizing at least some of the content items into the container objects automatically determining whether context for the data processing system has changed and in response to a determination that context for the data processing system has changed dynamically changing the set of container objects to be presented in the family channel.

 D8 In a method according to paragraph D1 the set of content items comprises at least two items from the group consisting of a stock ticker a photo a video a music file a news feed a family calendar a family favored photo a family favored video a family favored music file a health update a school web site a teacher update a note from one individual user to the family and an entertainment application.

 E1 A method for dynamically tailoring supplemental data to be presented involves a data processing system with individual profiles for respective individual users wherein the individual profiles comprise a first user profile for a first user and the first user profile identifies at least one interest of the first user. The method comprises the operations of determining that the first user is interacting with the data processing system while media content is being presented in response to determining that the first user is interacting with the data processing system while the media content is being presented automatically analyzing supplemental data to determine whether the supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to the interest of the first user identified in the first user profile and in response to determining that the supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to the interest of the first user identified in the first user profile automatically causing the supplemental data to be presented.

 E2 In a method according to paragraph E1 the individual profiles comprise a second user profile for a second user and the second user profile identifies at least one interest of the second user. Also the method further comprises automatically detecting that the second user is interacting with the data processing system while the media content is being presented in response to determining that the second user is interacting with the data processing system while the media content is being presented automatically analyzing additional supplemental data to determine whether the additional supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to the interest of the second user identified in the first user profile and in response to determining that the additional supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to the interest of the second user identified in the first user profile automatically causing the additional supplemental data to be presented.

 E3 In a method according to paragraph E2 the operation of automatically causing the additional supplemental data to be presented comprises causing the supplemental data to be replaced by the additional supplemental data.

 E4 In a method according to paragraph E1 the operation of automatically analyzing supplemental data to determine whether the supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to the interest of the first user identified in the first user profile comprises analyzing information from multiple sources.

 E5 In a method according to paragraph E4 the multiple sources comprise at least two items from the group consisting of individual user specified preferences behavior observation data and a digital persona service.

 E6 A method according to paragraph E1 further comprises detecting another device near the data processing system sending information to the other device and receiving information from the other device. The other device presents the media content. And the operation of automatically analyzing supplemental data to determine whether the supplemental data is relevant to the media content and to the interest of the first user identified in the first user profile comprises analyzing the information received from the other device.

 E7 A method according to paragraph E1 further comprises automatically using state data pertaining to the supplemental data for the first user to update the first user profile in response to detecting that the first user is interacting with the data processing system while the media content is being presented.

 F1 A method for facilitating multi user interaction involves a data processing system with individual profiles for respective individual users and with a family profile for a collective family user. The method comprises the operations of automatically detecting whether a person is near the data processing system in response to detecting the person near the data processing system automatically determining whether the detected person is one of the individual users with individual profiles on the data processing system in response to a determination that the detected person is one of the individual users with individual profiles on the data processing system automatically determining a set of content items to be presented based at least in part on a combination of information from the individual profile for the detected person and information from the family profile and after determining a set of content items to be presented automatically causing at least some of the items from the set of content items to be presented.

 F2 In a method according to paragraph F1 the operation of automatically determining a set of content items to be presented comprises recognizing interests of the family user and interests of the detected person evaluating potential content items with regard to relevance to the recognized interests of the family user evaluating potential content items with regard to relevance to the recognized interests of the detected person including potential content items with high relevance to the recognized interests of the family user in the set of content items to be presented and including potential content items with high relevance to the recognized interests of the detected person in the set of content items to be presented.

 F3 In a method according to paragraph F2 the operation of automatically determining a set of content items to be presented comprises analyzing potential content items from multiple sources with regard to relevance to at least one factor from the group consisting of the recognized interests of the family user and the recognized interests of the detected person.

 F4 In a method according to paragraph F3 the multiple sources comprise at least one source from the group consisting of predetermined preferences for at least one individual user predetermined preferences for the family user behavior observation data and a digital persona service.

 F5 A method according to paragraph F1 further comprises after automatically causing at least some of the items from the set of content items to be presented automatically determining whether a newer content item is available and in response to a determination that a newer content item is available automatically causing the newer content item to be presented in place of an older content item.

 F6 A method according to paragraph F1 further comprises after automatically causing at least some of the items from the set of content items to be presented automatically determining whether context of the data processing system has changed and in response to a determination that context of the data processing system has changed automatically modifying the set of content items to be presented based at least in part on the changed context.

 F7 A method according to paragraph F1 further comprises automatically determining a set of container objects to be presented in a family channel based at least in part on predetermined user settings organizing at least some of the content items into the container objects automatically determining whether context for the data processing system has changed and in response to a determination that context for the data processing system has changed dynamically changing the set of container objects to be presented in the family channel.

 F8 In a method according to paragraph F1 the set of content items comprises at least two items from the group consisting of a stock ticker a photo a video a music file a news feed a family calendar a family favored photo a family favored video a family favored music file a health update a school web site a teacher update a note from one individual user to the family and an entertainment application.

 G Furthermore the features of paragraph A1 may be combined with the features described in any one or more of paragraphs A2 through A12 B1 through B12 C1 through C8 D1 through D8 E1 through E7 and F1 through F8. Also the features of paragraph B1 may be combined with the features described in any one or more of paragraphs A1 through A12 B2 through B12 C1 through C8 D1 through D8 E1 through E7 and F1 through F8. Also the features of paragraph C1 may be combined with the features described in any one or more of paragraphs A1 through A12 B1 through B12 C2 through C8 D1 through D8 E1 through E7 and F1 through F8. Also the features of paragraph D1 may be combined with the features described in any one or more of paragraphs A1 through A12 B1 through B12 C1 through C8 D2 through D8 E1 through E7 and F1 through F8. Also the features of paragraph E1 may be combined with the features described in any one or more of paragraphs A1 through A12 B1 through B12 C1 through C8 D1 through D8 E2 through E7 and F1 through F8. Also the features of paragraph F1 may be combined with the features described in any one or more of paragraphs A1 through A12 B1 through B12 C1 through C8 D1 through D8 E1 through E7 and F2 through F8.

 H At least one machine accessible medium comprises technology to facilitate multi user interaction with a data processing system. The machine accessible medium comprises instructions which when executed by a data processing system cause the data processing system to perform the operations or combination of operations described in any of paragraphs A1 through A12 B1 through B12 C1 through C8 D1 through D8 E1 through E7 F1 through F8 and G.

 I A data processing system comprises technology to facilitate multi user interaction. The data processing system comprises a processor and at least one machine accessible medium responsive to the processor. The machine accessible medium comprises instructions which when executed by the data processing system cause the data processing system to perform the operations or combination of operations described in any of paragraphs A1 through A12 B1 through B12 C1 through C8 D1 through D8 E1 through E7 F1 through F8 and G.

 J For purposes of establishing initial parameters to guide examination of the present application and without disclaiming for purposes of rights to be secured with subsequent applications or with further prosecution of the present application embodiments that may depart in some degree from these initial parameters what is claimed are all implementations that come within the scope of the claims set forth in the Claims section and all equivalents to such implementations.

In some embodiments a first device may be a mobile device such as but not limited to a tablet smart phone laptop gaming console portable media player personal navigation device personal digital assistant or other mobile device. The first device may be moved by the user of the first device. For example the first device may be a smart phone and the user may place the first device in proximity to the second device. Once within the proximity of the second device the first device may be configured to determine the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device.

By determining the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device in some embodiments a user of the first device may transfer data between the first and second devices using intuitive gestures. For example if the first device is a tablet with a touch screen the user of the first device may share a music file with the second device by pushing the music file toward the second device on the screen of the first device. The first device may recognize that the user is pushing the music file toward the second device because the relative position of the second device with respect to the first device is known to the first device. The first device may send the music file to the second device through a previously established communication channel or through a communication channel that is then established between the first and second devices. The above scenario is just one example of how the first device may use the information of the relative position of the second device with respect to the first device.

The first device may include a processor sensor and a distance determination module all of which may be used to determine the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device. Once the first device is within the proximity of the second device the distance determination module may calculate a first distance between the first device and the second device.

The distance determination module may be configured to calculate the first distance between the first and second devices using multiple methods. For example in some embodiments the distance determination module may use ultrasonic sound waves to calculate the distance between the first and second modules. In some embodiments the distance determination module may emit an ultrasonic sound wave and based on the time of a reflection from the second device the first distance may be calculated. Alternately or additionally the distance determination module may emit an ultrasonic sound wave and based on the time for the sound wave to be received by the second device the first distance may be calculated.

In some embodiments the distance determination module may use radio frequency signal strengths to calculate the first distance between the first and second devices. For example in some embodiments the first and second devices may be communicating using a Bluetooth or other direct wireless communication link such as wireless universal serial bus USB or wireless USB on the go. In these and other embodiments based on the signal strength of the communication link the first distance between the first and second devices may be calculated. In some embodiments the first and second devices may be connected to a channel of a wireless network. In these and other embodiments the first distance between the first and second devices may be calculated based on the radio frequency strengths of a signal transmitted between the first and second devices such as a beacon. In some embodiments other methods or techniques may be used to calculate the first distance between the first and second devices. After calculating the first distance the sensor may be configured to sense a movement of the first device and generate movement data. Using the movement data the sensor the processor or some other module within the first device may be configured to determine a direction of the movement of the first device. For example in some embodiments the sensor may be an accelerometer. The accelerometer may sense the acceleration of the first device and generate acceleration data. Using the acceleration data a module with the first device such as the processor the sensor or some other module may determine the direction of the movement of the first device. In some embodiments the sensor may be more than one sensor. For example the sensor may include an accelerometer and a gyroscope. Data may be collected from both the accelerometer and the gyroscope to determine the direction of the movement of the first device. In some embodiments the sensor may be another type of sensor capable of generating data that may be used to determine the direction of movement of the first device.

In an example scenario the first device may be moved toward the second device. After the movement of the first device a second distance between the first device and the second device is calculated using the distance determination module. The distance determination module may calculate the second distance in the same manner as the first distance was calculated or in a different manner.

In some embodiments after calculating the first distance the second distance and the direction of the movement of the first device the processor may be configured to use the first distance the second distance and the direction of the movement of the first device to determine the relative location of the first device with respect to the second device. In particular the processor may determine the relative location of the first device by analyzing the change in distance between the first and second devices as determined by the difference between the first distance and the second distance and the direction of the movement of the first device.

In some embodiments the methods or techniques used to calculate the first and second distances may not produce accurate distance measurements between the first and second devices. In these and other embodiments the first and second distances may be approximate distances between the first and second devices. The method and techniques used to calculate the first and second distances need only be accurate enough to allow for the determination of the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device.

In some embodiments the first and second devices may lie within the xy plane separated by the first distance. The first device may move within the xy plane in the x direction that is the first device may move toward the second device along the x axis. Because the distance between the first and second devices decreased the processor may determine that the second device is located in the direction of movement of the first device that is the x direction with respect to the first device. Based on this information the processor may also determine that the first device is located in the x direction with respect to the second device.

In another scenario the first device may move in the x direction and the second distance measured after the movement of the first device may be larger than the first distance. Because the distance between the first and second devices increased the processor may determine that the second device is located in the opposite direction of the movement of the first device that is the x direction with respect to the first device. Based on this information the processor may also determine that the first device is located in the x direction with respect to the second device.

Further information may assist in determining the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device. For example the sensor may determine the direction of the movement of the first device and a distance moved by the first device. The distance and direction of the movement of the first device along with the first and second distances may allow the processor to determine more accurately the relative positions of the first and second devices.

In some embodiments the first device may contain an orientation sensor A and the second device may contain an orientation sensor B. The orientation sensors A B may be configured to determine the orientations of the first device and the second device respectively. In some embodiments the orientation sensors A B may share a similar coordinate frame of reference. For example in some embodiments the orientation sensors A B may be compass sensors that determine the orientation of the first and second devices based on a coordinate system using the directions of north south east and west. Using the coordinate frame of reference of the orientation sensor A a common coordinate frame of reference for the sensor may be also determined. Using this common coordinate frame of reference the relative direction of movement of the first device may be communicated to the second device and or other device even if the second device and or other device do not share a similar orientation. Furthermore using a common coordinate frame of reference the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device may be shared with the second device and or other devices to enable the second device and or other devices to determine their relative position with respect to the first device even if first and second device and or other devices do not share a similar orientation.

Additionally the granularity and accuracy of the information used by the processor such as the first and second distances and the direction and distance of the movement of the first device may determine the accuracy of the determined relative positions of the first and second devices. For example in some embodiments the relative positions of the first and second devices may be determined to be one of four general directions such as x x y y. In other embodiments the relative positions of the first and second devices may be determined to be one of eight general directions such as x x y y x y x y x y x y. In other embodiments the relative positions of the first and second devices may be determined to be one of six general directions such as x x y y z z. It is noted that numerous other combinations and numbers of general directions for the relative positions of the first and second devices may be possible based on the granularity and accuracy of the information used by the processor.

In some embodiments the processor sensor and or the distance determination module may be combined in a single module or may be individual modules within the first device. In some embodiments the processor sensor and the distance determination module may be used by the first device to perform operations other than determining the relative positions of the first and second devices. In some embodiments the distance determination module and the processor may be implemented in hardware firmware and or software.

In some embodiments the second device may be a mobile device or a stationary device such as a desktop computer smart television or other stationary electronic device. In some embodiments a communication link between the first and second devices may be established before during or after the relative positions of the first and second devices are determined. The communication link may be a wireless communication link or a wired communication link. In some embodiments the first device may send the determined relative position of the second device with respect to the first device to the second device.

In some embodiments the first device may include more than one sensor. For example in some embodiments the first device may include two or more sensors that may be used in combination or individually to determine a direction of movement of the first device.

One example system includes a first device and a second device. The first device includes an antenna A a processor and a sensor. The second device includes an antenna B.

In some embodiments the first and second devices may be communicating over a channel within a wireless network. As part of communicating over the wireless network the first and second devices may be transmitting wireless network signals. For example if the wireless network is an 802.11 wireless network the wireless network signal may be a beacon signal. The wireless network signal may contain data therein. For example in some embodiments the wireless network signal may include the signal strength of the wireless network signal when transmitted. In some embodiments the wireless network signal may also include the media access control MAC address of the device transmitting the wireless signal.

Being part of the same channel within a wireless network the first device may receive a wireless network signal from the second device that may not be directly intended for the first device or a direct communication with the first device. Likewise in some embodiments the second device may receive a wireless network signal from the first device that may not be directly intended for the second device or a direct communication with the second device.

Using the information within the wireless network signal first device may determine the transmission signal strength of the wireless network signal. The transmission signal strength may be the strength of the wireless network signal when the wireless network signal is first broadcast by the antenna B of the second device. The first device may also determine the received signal strength of the wireless network signal when the wireless network signal is received by the antenna A of the first device. The received signal strength may be the strength of the wireless network signal at the antenna A when received by the first device.

Using the strength of the wireless network signal at transmission and reception the processor in the first device may calculate a first distance between the first and second devices. In these and other embodiments the first and second devices may be close enough to each other so that the antenna A is in a location where a line of sight signal of the wireless network signal is the dominant signal. In some embodiments where the antenna A is in a location where the reflective signal of the wireless network signal is the dominant signal other means may be used to calculate a distance between the first and second devices.

After determining the first distance between the first and second devices the first device may determine a direction of a movement of the first device using the sensor. In some embodiments the sensor may be an accelerometer that produces acceleration data representing the acceleration of the first device. The processor or some other module within the first device may determine the direction of the movement of the first device based on the acceleration data. For instance the first device may move from an original position in a x direction from the second device to a second position farther away from the second device in the x direction.

The processor may then use the transmission and reception strength of a wireless network signal transmitted and received after the first device is in the second position to calculate a second distance between the first and second devices. With the calculated first and second distances and the direction of the movement of the first device the processor may determine the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device in a similar fashion as described above. Thus in some embodiments the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device may be determined when each of the first and second devices contain a single antenna A B.

In some embodiments the first and or second distances used to determine the relative position between the first and second device may be based on one or more calculated distances between the first and second devices. For example before the movement of the first device the first device may calculate a first distance between the first and second devices multiple times using multiple wireless network signals. For example the first device may receive five wireless network signals from the second device and may calculate the first distance five times before the movement of the first device. In some embodiments the first distance used by the processor to determine the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device may be the mean medium weighted mean or some other combination or subset combination of the five calculated first distances. For example the first distances used by the processor to determine the relative position of the first and second devices may be the mean of the first distances that are within one standard deviation of the mean of the five calculated first distances. In other embodiments the first distance used by the processor may be the shortest or longest of the five calculated first distances.

In some embodiments after determining the relative position of the second device the first device may establish a communication link between the first and second devices. In some embodiments the first device may establish the communication link using the MAC address obtained from the beacon transmitted by the second device. Establishing the communication link may allow the first and second devices to share data. The communication link may also allow the first device to share the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device with the second device. For example in some embodiments the first and second devices may share data as directed by intuitive gestures by users of the first and second devices.

In some embodiments the first device may send the first and second distances and the direction of movement of the first device to another device for processing and determining the relative position of the first and second device. Alternately or additionally another device besides the first device may calculate the first or second distances or the direction of movement of the first device. The other device may receive information from the first device necessary to determine the first and second distances and the direction of movement of the first device. In some embodiments the processor may be implemented in hardware firmware and or software.

One example scenario involves a mobile device and three other devices device A device B and a device C. The mobile device may be a device similar to the device referred to above as the first device. For instance the mobile device may be configured to determine the relative positions of the device A device B and the device C with respect to the mobile device.

In some embodiments the mobile device and the devices A B C may be operating on the same channel within a wireless network. The mobile device may determine the relative positions of the devices A B C using a wireless network signal received from the devices A B C similar to how the mobile device determined the relative position of the second device with respect to . For example the mobile device may determine that the device A is in the y direction that the device B is in the x direction and that the device C is in the y direction. The mobile device may associate the MAC addresses of the devices A B C with their relative positions and establish a communication link with the devices A B C. A user of the mobile device may transfer data to device A by pushing the data in the y direction along a screen of the mobile device. Likewise the user of the mobile device may transmit data to device B by pushing data in the x direction along the screen and may transmit data to the device C by pushing data in the y direction along the screen.

In some embodiments one or more of the devices A B C may be mobile devices. In these and other embodiments the mobile device may not establish a communication link with the devices A B C until prompted by a user of the mobile device. The mobile device may be prompted to establish a communication link to transfer data with the device A for example by the user moving the mobile device in the y direction toward the device A. A connection may be established if a user of device A also moves the device A in a y direction toward the mobile device. In some embodiments a communication link to transfer data may be established if the movements of the mobile device and the device A occur with a predetermined period such as 1 second 1.5 seconds 3 seconds or some other period.

An example method may be used to describe operations performed for example by the devices described above as the first device and the second device. For one operation a first distance between first and second devices is calculated. The first distance may be calculated by either the first device the second device or some other device. The first distance may be calculated using one or more methods. For example in some embodiments ultrasonic sound waves emitted by either the first or the second device may be used to calculate the distance. Alternately or additionally a signal emitted from one of the first and second devices and received by the other of the first and second devices may be used to determine the distance between the first and second devices. For example in some embodiments the second device may emit a wireless network signal used within a wireless communication network. For example in some embodiments the wireless network signal may be a beacon signal that contains the transmission strength of the beacon signal. Based on the strength of the signal when received by the first device and the strength of the signal with transmitted by the second device the distance between the first and second devices may be calculated.

A direction of a movement of the first device may then be determined. In some embodiments determining the direction of the movement may include sensing the direction of the movement using at least one sensor within the first device. In some embodiments the sensor may be an accelerometer. In these and other embodiments sensing the direction of movement of the first device may include sensing acceleration or other movement and generating movement data representing the movement of the first device. The direction of movement may then be derived from the movement data generated by the sensor. In some embodiments the sensor may derive the direction from the movement data. Alternately or additionally a processor or other module within the first device or some other device such as the second device that receives the movement data may derive the direction from the movement data.

A second distance between the first and second devices may be calculated after the movement of the first device. The second distance may be calculated by either the first device the second device or some other device. The second distance may be calculated using one or more methods as described above. In some embodiments the same method used to calculate the first distance may be used to calculate the second distance. In some embodiments a different method may be used to calculate the second distance.

Then the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device is determined based on the direction of the movement and the calculated first and second distances. The relative position may be determined by the first device second device or some other device. In some embodiments the relative position may be determined by analyzing a difference in the distance between the first and second devices after the movement of the first device and the direction of the movement of the first device.

In some embodiments the accuracy of the determined relative position may depend on the granularity and accuracy of the information used to determine the relative position namely the direction of the movement and the calculated first and second distances. For example if the direction of the movement may only be determined in four general directions within a plane then the relative position may be determined based on the four general directions within the plane.

In some embodiments the method may be performed by the first device the second device some other device or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the first and or second device may be mobile devices such as tablets smart phones laptops gaming consoles portable media players personal navigation devices personal digital assistants or other mobile devices. In some embodiments each of the first and second devices may include a single wireless antenna.

In some embodiments the method may further include additional actions. For example if the first device determined the relative position of the first and second devices the method may include sending the relative position of the first and second devices to the second device. Alternately or additionally the method may include passing information between the first and second devices based on user input related to the relative position of the first and second devices.

In another example method a second device may receive a first wireless network signal from a first device. In some embodiments the first device may send a wireless network signal such as a beacon signal on a channel within a wireless communication network. The wireless network signal may include data therein including the signal strength of the wireless network signal when transmitted by the first device. The second device may be connected to the channel within the wireless communication network and may receive the wireless network signal and obtain the data within the wireless network signal. The second device may also calculate the signal strength of the first wireless network signal when received at the second device.

In addition a direction of a movement of the second device may be determined using at least one sensor within the second device. For example in some embodiments the sensor within the second device may be an accelerometer. The second device may receive acceleration data from the accelerometer and determine therefrom the direction of the movement of the second device.

The second device may then receive a second wireless network signal from the first device after the movement of the second device. The second device may obtain the data within the second wireless network signal. The second device may also calculate the signal strength of the second wireless network signal when received at the second device.

The relative position of the first device with respect to the second device may then be determined based on the direction of the movement of the second device the first wireless network signal and the second wireless network signal In some embodiments a first distance between the first and second devices may be calculated using data within the first wireless network signal and a second distance between the first and second device may be calculated using data within the second wireless network signal. For example in some embodiments the first distance may be calculated using the difference between the transmission signal strength of the first wireless signal at the first device and the reception signal strength of the first wireless signal at the second device. Similarly in some embodiments the second distance may be calculated using the difference between the transmission signal strength of the second wireless signal at the first device and the reception signal strength of the second wireless signal at the second device.

Based on the calculated first and second distances and the direction of the movement of the second device the relative position of the first device with respect to the second device may be determined. In some embodiments the relative position may be determined by analyzing a difference in the distance between the first and second devices after the movement of the first device and the direction of the movement of the first device.

In some embodiments the calculations performed in the method may be performed by the first device the second device some other device or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the first and or second device may be mobile devices such as tablets smart phones laptops gaming consoles portable media players personal navigation devices personal digital assistants or other mobile devices. In some embodiments each of the first and second devices may include a single wireless antenna.

