---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a response to a query
abstract: Providing a response to a query comprising receiving a query request, to which a response containing a numerical value is expected, from a querying device, identifying at least one input series as relating to the query request, the or each input series having at least one numerical input measurement, assigning a weighted score to the or each input series identified as relating to the query request, selecting at least one input series from among the input series identified as relating to the query request, the selection being dependent on the weighted score assigned to the or each input series identified as relating to the query request, generating a response to the query request, the response containing a numerical value based on the or on one of the numerical input measurements of the selected at least one input series, thereby providing said response to the querying device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856110&OS=08856110&RS=08856110
owner: Meterfy Ltd.
number: 08856110
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20120801
---
Electronic devices have been used to access information through various networks including the internet. Hitherto users have input queries into the search field of a search engine which may be accessed from a website using a web browser. The search engine then retrieves information relating to the query and provides this information to the user. While this has provided a satisfactory way of providing information in many respects problems have arisen when a user seeks a response containing a numerical value which may change with time. In particular existing search engines have struggled to identify reliable sources of dynamic numerical data.

A first exemplary embodiment provides a computer implemented method of providing a response to a query comprising receiving a query to which a response containing a numerical value is expected from a querying device identifying at least one input series as relating to the query the or each input series having at least one numerical input measurement assigning a weighted score to the or each input series identified as relating to the query selecting at least one input series from among the input series identified as relating to the query the selection being dependent on the weighted score assigned to the or each input series identified as relating to the query generating a response to the query the response containing a numerical value based on the or on one of the numerical input measurements of the selected at least one input series thereby providing said response to the querying device.

A second exemplary embodiment provides an apparatus configured to receive a query to which a response containing a numerical value is expected from a querying device identify at least one input series as relating to the query the or each input series having at least one numerical input measurement assign a weighted score to the or each input series identified as relating to the query select at least one input series from among the input series identified as relating to the query the selection being dependent on the weighted score assigned to the or each input series identified as relating to the query generate a response to the query the response containing a numerical value based on the or on one of the numerical input measurements of the selected at least one input series thereby providing said response to the querying device.

A third exemplary embodiment provides an apparatus having at least one processor and at least one memory having computer readable code stored thereon which when executed controls the at least one processor to cause at least one input tile to be displayed the or each input tile being associated with an input series wherein the or each input tile comprises a numerical input measurement of the associated input series and a title of the associated input series.

The input device in chides a processor which controls operation of the other hardware components of the input device .

The input device comprises a processor working or volatile memory not shown such as Random Access Memory RAM and a non volatile memory on which is stored an operating system and software which is executed by the processor to control the hardware components of the input device .

The input device is configured to connect to the internet using any suitable fixed or mobile internet access technology such as DSL mobile broadband or cable. The input device may comprise a network interface to allow the input device to connect to a network such as a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN or a telecommunications network which may be a 3G or 4G network.

The input device also comprises a user interface . The user interface comprises a display and an entry device such as a keyboard or mouse. The display and entry device may be integrated to form a touch sensitive screen.

The input device may also house a battery to power the input device however the input device may be powered by other means such as a mains power source.

The home page contains a search bar and may be configured to display at least one input tile . Each of the input tiles comprises a title and a numerical input measurement . Each input tile is associated with an input series and each input series belongs to an input account.

The home page may be accessed when a user logs in to his or her input account. Some of the input tiles displayed on the home page are associated with input series that are owned by the input account of the user of the input device while other tiles are associated with input series that are followed by the input account of the user. Ownership of input series and following input series of other input accounts is described in greater detail below.

The search bar allows the user to input a search query via the user interface in order to find a particular input tile . For example if the user enters Apple price into the field of the search bar one or more input tiles having a title containing the words apple price appear on the display .

As stated above each input tile displayed on the display of the input device is associated with an input series which comprises the title of the input tile and at least one numerical input measurement . The input series may also contain information relating to units of the numerical input measurement. The input series may belong to an input account and information relating to that input account may be contained in the input series as shown in .

The input series is stored in a data store of a server . The series server may be accessed by the input device over a network . The network may support an internet connection.

The user can create and update the input series using the user interface of the input device . For example the user may create anew input series having a title such as Price of an apple and a numerical input measurement such as 0.40 via the user interface . This information may then be provided to the series server over the network and stored in the data store as a new input series. Each numerical input measurement may have an associated time stamp as well as a numerical value. In the example shown in the first numerical input measurement of the input series has a value of 0.40 and an associated time stamp of 2012 06 25 .

Several input devices may access the series server over the network to create and update input series. Examples of suitable input devices are shown in . A desktop computer and a mobile computing device such as a smartphone can create and update input series in the manner described above in relation to . shows an input server which connects to the series server over the network . New input series may be created and existing input series updated automatically via an application programming interface hereinafter API APIs are known in the art as a means for allowing content to be shared by different applications. Therefore numerical information stored by a server in relation to a website or a social network such as Twitter or Facebook may be shared automatically with the series server and the user s input account may be updated automatically. For example the user may post numerical information on to a social networking site. An input series which belongs to the user s linked input account may be created or updated automatically via the social networking account and API.

As described in the above example the time stamp associated with a numerical input measurement may be the time at which the numerical input measurement was input. Alternatively it may be a time value input by a user manually or specified by the API. For example a user may on 26 Jun. 2012 enter a value of 0.42 and an associated time stamp of 2012 06 25 . This allows the user to enter a numerical input measurement relating to an earlier time in this case to enter on 26 Jun. 2012 the price of an apple on 25 Jun. 2012.

According to various embodiments a user may link his or her input account with a social networking account he or she may have with social networks such as Twitter or Facebook . As the user creates or updates input series the information therein contained may be shared on these other platforms via a suitable API. Furthermore the title of the input series may contain a tag such as a Twitter hashtag so that the input series may be easily accessed on these other platforms.

In addition to embodiments which allow an input device to create and update input series belonging to the input account of a user and to follow input series belonging to another input account embodiments also provide a method of providing a response containing a numerical value to a querying device.

The querying device may be a similar device to the input device . For example the querying device may be a desktop or laptop computer a mobile telephone equipped with internet access such as a smartphone or a PDA. As such the internal structure of the querying device will be assumed to be similar to that of the input device shown in and further description of the internal structure of the querying device will be omitted.

The querying device may have a web browser installed thereon. The series server may be accessed by visiting a web site. The website may be the website of a search engine. Alternatively an application may be installed on to the querying device which is configured to allow the querying device to connect to the series server over the network .

According to embodiments a user may input a query request via a user interface of the querying device into a search field of website or of an installed application which allow access to the series server over the network . The connection with series server may be via an internet connection. The query request entered by the user is a query which the user expects will be answered with an answer containing a numerical value. For example in a user enters a query request What is the price of an apple . The query request is sent to the series server via the network . The series server receives the query request and generates a query response 0.69 which may be provided by the series server via the network to the querying device .

At step S the series server receives a query request via the network from a querying device . Three examples of query requests all received on 30 Jun. 2012 will be described. In Example 1 the query request received by the series server is What is the price of an apple . In Example 2 the query request received by the series server is What was the price of an apple yesterday . In Example 3 the query request received by the series server is What was the price of an apple on 25 06 2012 .

At step S the series server analyses the content of the query request to identify any input series stored in the data store that may be related to the query request . The series server may match words contained within the query request with words contained in the title of an input series stored in the data store .

In Examples 1 3 six input series are identified having titles containing the words price and apple and these input series are shown in at step S.

At step S the series server determines whether the query request contains a time component. The series server determines that the query request does contain a time component the process moves on to step S. If the series server determines that the query request does not contain a time component the process moves on to step S.

At step S any input series identified at step S that does not have a numerical input measurement having an associated time stamp corresponding to the time component of the query request is excluded from the process by the series server . Whether an associated time stamp of the numerical input measurement corresponds to the time component of the query request may vary according to various embodiments. For example a time stamp having the same date as the time component of the query request may correspond in some embodiments. In other embodiments a time stamp which is within a certain predetermined time period prior to the time component of the query request may correspond.

In Example 1 the series server determines from the text what is the price of an apple that the query request contains a time component of 30 Jun. 2012 at step S. Input series that do not contain a numerical input measurement having an associated time stamp showing 30 Jun. 2012 in this case input series and are therefore excluded at step S. In Example 2 the word yesterday is interpreted by the series server at step S to correspond to a time component of 29 Jun. 2012. Input series and shown in are therefore excluded since they do not have a numerical input measurement having an associated time stamp of 29 Jun. 2012 at step S. In Example 3 the text in the query request 25 06 2012 is interpreted by the series server to correspond to a time component of 25 Jun. 2012 at step S. Input series and shown in are excluded at step S because they do not have a numerical input measurement with an associated time stamp of 25 Jun. 2012.

In embodiments that include the optional step S the series server excludes any numerical input measurement of an input series that has an associated time stamp that is later than the time component of the query request . In Example 2 the numerical input measurements from input series and having an associated time stamp of 30 Jun. 2012 are excluded. In Example 3 all numerical input measurements from input series having a time stamp of 26 Jun. 2012 or later are excluded.

At step S a weighted score is assigned to each input series identified at step S and which has not been subsequently excluded at any intervening step of the process. The weighted score assigned to an input series may be dependent on any of several reliability indicators pertaining to that input series.

Referring again to reliability indicators according to embodiments might include the number of input accounts that follow a particular input series with a high number of followers indicating a more reliable input series.

A trust score may be associated with the input account to which the input series belongs. A trust score may be a score applied to an account by a third party. The trust score may be derived from ratings applied to the input series based on past performance. Alternatively an input account belonging to a respected source of information such as an online encyclopaedia or news source may carry a high trust score.

Whether the input series is updated manually or via an API may also provide a indicator with those input series updated automatically by API being more reliable than those updated manually. Furthermore the frequency at which an input series is updated may be used as a reliability indicator with an input series having a higher update frequency suggesting greater reliability than an input series having a lower frequency. The time elapsed since the input series was last updated may also be taken into account as a reliability indicator with a more recently updated input series being preferred to an input series that has not been updated for a longer time.

Multiple input series may be compared to see whether the numerical input measurements of each of the multiple input series correlate well over time. When comparing two or more input series the units of the respective input series may be taken into account. For example one input series might measure a price in units of while another input series might measure a price in units of . If the exchange rate varies little over a few days the numerical input measurements in the two input series may correlate well when values are adjusted using a exchange rate which may be accessed by the series server . Similarly one input series might measure a price in units of cents and numerical input measurements may correlate well with an input series measured in units of when scaled by a multiple of 100.

In Example 1 input series and shown in were excluded at step S leaving input series and . Input series has more followers than input series and . Input series is updated automatically via API whereas input series and are updated manually. Input series also has a higher trust score than input series and . As such since input series outperformed input series and with respect to each reliability indicator input series is assigned a significantly higher weighted score than input series and at step S.

In Example 2 input series and were excluded at step S leaving input series and in the process. Input series has more followers than input series than input series and . Input series is updated automatically via API whereas input series and are updated manually. Input series also has a higher trust score than input series and . As such since input series outperformed input series and with respect to each reliability indicator input series is assigned a significantly higher weighted score than input series and at step S.

In Example 3 input series and were excluded at step S leaving input series and in the process. Input series is updated via API whereas input series is updated manually. This distinction favours input series . Furthermore input series has a higher trust score than input series . However input series has more followers than input series . As such input series and input series are assigned a similar weighted score at step S.

At step S the series server decides whether to use more than one input series to generate a query response . If the series server decides not to use more than one input series to generate a query response the process moves on to step S. If the series server does decide to use more than one input series to generate a query response the process moves on to step S.

In Examples 1 and 2 at step S a decision is taken by the series server to use a single input series to generate the query response . This decision is based on the fact that input series was assigned a significantly higher weighted score than the other input series at step S. The process therefore moves on to step S of the process.

At step S the latest numerical input measurement not to be excluded at step S is selected from the input series that was selected at step S. In Example 1 the latest non excluded numerical input measurement is 0.69 since no numerical input measurements were excluded at step S and input series was selected at step S. In Example 2 the latest non excluded numerical input measurement is 0.66 since all numerical input measurements having an associated time stamp later than 29 Jun. 2012 were excluded at step S and input series was selected at step S. In Examples 1 and 2 the series server generates a query response containing 0.69 and 0.66 respectively.

In Example 3 a decision is taken at step S to use more than one input series to generate the query response . This is because input series and input series were assigned a similar weighted score at step S. In this case the process moves from step S to step S.

At step S a numerical value to be included in the query response is calculated. The latest numerical input measurements from the input series selected at step S which were not excluded at step S are used to calculate the numerical value to be included in the query response . In Example 3 all numerical input measurements of input series having an associated time stamp later than 25 Jun. 2012 were excluded at step S. At step S input series and were selected. The latest non excluded numerical input measurements from input series and are 0.60 and 0.62 respectively.

The numerical value to be included in the query response may be calculated in one of several ways. In some embodiments an average of the input measurements may be calculated. The average may be a mean mode or median average. In other embodiments other statistical methods may be used to calculate the numerical value to be included in the query response . In yet further embodiments if the more than one selected input series have different weighted scores the respective weighted score of each input series may be taken into account.

Step S is an optional step wherein units to be included in the query response are determined. If the selected one or more input series use the same units then the series server will generate a query response using those units. However if different units are used by the respective input series then a selection is made at step S as to which units to include in the query response . This selection may be based on factors such as the geographical location of the querying device . For instance if the querying device is located in the USA the query response may be expressed in units of . Alternatively the query response may be denominated for querying devices located in the UK and so forth. Alternatively the selection of units may be based on preselected user preferences.

At step S the series server generates the query response based on the numerical values obtained from previous steps in the process. The query response may comprise a time component which may be derived from the time stamp associated with the one or more numerical input measurements used to generate the query response . The time component thereby provides the user with an indication of the age of the data which has been used to generate the query response.

The query response may comprise a confidence level. In embodiments where a confidence level is used it provides the user with an indication of the level of confidence he or she may have in the query response . The confidence level may be related to or derived from the weighted score assigned to the input series at step S and may be calculated using an algorithm stored in the data store .

The query response may be provided to the querying device via the network . The query response may then be displayed on a user interface of the querying device .

The user may include in the query request in addition to a question such as What is the price of an apple a request for an updated query response to be sent to the querying device provided that certain update criteria are met. The request for an updated query response may include an instruction to the series server that the query request is to be stored in the data store .

The query request is therefore stored in the data store together with information relating to the most recent query response that has been provided to the querying device . For example the time that an initial query response was provided to a querying device the time at which the most recent updated query response was provided to a querying device and the numerical value contained within the initial query response or in the most recent updated query response may be stored in the data store .

In general the updated query response may be generated and provided to the querying device in response to an input series being created or updated by an input device after an initial query response such as the query response has been provided to the querying device .

Update criteria that are to be met before an updated query response is provided may be included in the query request and stored in the data store . Examples of update criteria include a frequency criterion and a confidence level threshold. The user may input via the user interface of the querying device a value of 1 hour as a frequency criterion. This means that no updated query response will be sent within 1 hour of the latest response to the query request which may an initial response or an updated response. The user may input via the user interface of the querying device a threshold confidence value of for example 0.4. Any updated query response having a confidence value below this threshold will not be sent to the querying device .

At step S an input device creates or updates an input series in a manner substantially as described above with reference to .

At step S the series server analyses the title of the input series created or updated at step S and searches for query requests that have been stored in the data store of the series server that contain matching text in the question.

At step S the series server selects each matching stored query request individually and goes through the subsequent steps of the process with each one in turn.

Step S is performed in embodiments where a querying device has specified a frequency criterion in the query request . At step S the series server determines whether the time difference between the most recent query response and the current time is greater than the frequency criterion included in the query request. If the time difference between the most recent query response and the current time is greater than the frequency criterion included in the query request the process moves on to step S. If the time difference between the most recent query response and the current time is less than the frequency criterion included in the query request then the process moves onto step S. It should be borne in mind that the most recent query response may be an initial query response provided to the querying device directly after the query request was sent or it may be the most recent updated query response.

At step S the series server performs the process described above with reference to to generate a query response from step S onwards. New numerical input measurements that are part of a new input series or that form an update to an existing input series are taken into account at this step to generate an updated query response.

At step S the series server determines whether the numerical value generated at step S has a different value to the numerical value contained in the latest query response to be provided to the querying device whether that was the initial query response or the latest updated query response. If the numerical value is different then the process continues to step S. If the numerical value is not different from the numerical value contained in the latest query response to be provided to the querying device then the process continues to step S.

At step S the series server determines whether the response generated at step S has a confidence level above the confidence level threshold specified in the query request . If the response generated at step S does have a confidence level above the confidence level threshold specified in the query request then the process continues to step S. If not then the process continues to step S.

At step S the updated query response is provided to the querying device . The information relating to the query request that is stored in the data store is updated to reflect the time at which the updated query response was provided to the querying device and the numerical value contained within the updated query response . The updated query response may be displayed on a display of the querying device .

At step S the series server decides not to provide an updated query response to the querying device .

It will be appreciated that the above described embodiments are purely illustrative and are not limiting on the scope of the claims. Other variations and modifications will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reading the present application.

For example time stamps and time components have been described in the above described embodiments to a resolution of days. In other embodiments time may be recorded in query requests and responses to a resolution of years months hours minutes seconds or fractions of seconds. In preferred embodiments time resolution to shorter time periods such as fractions of seconds provides improved data quality to resolution to longer time periods.

Moreover the disclosure of the present application should be understood to include any novel features or any novel combination of features either explicitly or implicitly disclosed herein or any generalization thereof and during the prosecution of the present application or of any application derived therefrom new claims may be formulated to cover any such features and or combination of such features.

