---

title: Dynamic and local management of hierarchical discussion thread data
abstract: Techniques are described for display and navigation of hierarchical messages, which displays include contextual data for the messages. Context information for a current message includes reply messages, parent messages, and metadata representations. Message representations are also associated with visual depth indicators that are independent of the text of the messages. Users may navigate displays of hierarchical message data using different navigational inputs. For example, more information may be requested for messages, without selecting a new message for viewing as a focal message, using swipes across portions of the display dedicated to displaying the messages. A limited number of messages for a requested list of messages is initially retrieved and displayed, and a mechanism for viewing more messages from the list is provided. Historical usage of the mechanism is recorded and the number of messages to be displayed for the list of messages is adjusted based on the historical usage data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08468458&OS=08468458&RS=08468458
owner: Apollo Group, Inc.
number: 08468458
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
This application is a Continuation of Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 294 819 filed Nov. 11 2011 and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 294 808 entitled Hierarchy Indicating Graphical User Interface For Discussion Threads filed Nov. 11 2011 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 294 814 entitled Efficient Navigation Of Hierarchical Data Displayed In A Graphical User Interface filed Nov. 11 2011 the entire contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein. The applicant s hereby rescind any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application s or the prosecution history thereof and advise the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application s .

The present invention relates to displaying and navigating hierarchical message data and more specifically to displaying and navigating hierarchical message data in a manner that may be easily performed on devices that have a relatively small display or a display with a relatively low screen resolution.

A discussion thread is a set of related messages. The relationships that are between the messages in a discussion thread are typically comment response relationships. For example a discussion thread may be initiated by a root message on a forum which root message may include a comment or question. Users may respond to the root message or to response messages under the root message thus forming a hierarchy of messages. Sometimes a forum will allow users to receive notifications of changes that have been made to a discussion thread including new messages that have been posted to the thread. Thus users may communicate about a particular subject in a dynamic manner posting thoughts or questions that the users find pertinent to the subject and responding to other users messages.

Discussion threads are widely used to facilitate communication about particular subjects usually in connection with a forum on a particular subject. In an educational context a forum may be dedicated to a particular class and a discussion thread in the forum may be on a particular issue raised in connection with the particular class. For example in a forum for a business class a discussion thread may develop discussing various requirements of a particular homework assignment.

Display space permitting a discussion thread is typically displayed with many or all of the messages shown in full including responses to the root message responses to the response messages etc. If a message in the display is represented in an abbreviated manner a user may request more details about the abbreviated message. In response to such a request the text of the abbreviated message is generally added to the display of the rest of the fully displayed messages.

If a discussion thread includes many messages on many hierarchical levels of depth the display of the thread can become cumbersome and confusing to navigate. For example it may be difficult to track exactly where a particular message is with respect to the overall hierarchy of the thread. It may also be difficult to navigate to particular messages in the hierarchy or even to navigate up the hierarchy to parent messages of the current message that a user is viewing. These problems are exacerbated when the discussion thread is displayed on a display with a small surface area such as a mobile device display or a display with a low screen resolution.

One way to indicate the hierarchical depth of a message within a thread involves indenting the message text. For example the text of a reply message may be left indented relative to the left alignment of the reply message s parent message text to give a visual indication of relative hierarchical position. However text indentation does not work well with limited screen size because left indentation may leave very little horizontal space for message text. Also when text wraps too quickly the text becomes difficult for a user to read. Using text indentation with a small screen quickly dedicates too much of the horizontal space of the screen to indentations indicating hierarchical depth especially when displaying a thread with a deep hierarchy.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Techniques are described herein for display and navigation of hierarchical message data such that the context of the portion of data currently being displayed is evident. These techniques may be used for displays with a small display area and displays with a low screen resolution. Context information for a current message being viewed includes one or more of reply messages to the current message parent messages of the current message a shortcut to a list of message hierarchies that a user may navigate and metadata representations to give a user information about the messages being represented.

Visual depth indicators are also associated with message representations to give further contextual information about messages being displayed. The visual depth indicators are independent of the alignment of the text of the messages. Consequently screen space that would otherwise be dedicated to indenting message text to convey hierarchical depth can instead be used to display more message text per horizontal line. Spacing for visual depth indicators may be scaled depending on a number of hierarchical levels being represented in a graphical user interface.

Users may navigate displays of hierarchical message data using different navigational inputs. For example using a touch screen a message may be selected for viewing as a focal message by tapping on the message e.g. with a finger or stylus . Also more information may be displayed for messages without selecting a new message for viewing as a focal message using various triggering inputs that target one or more messages being displayed.

In one embodiment data retrieved to populate displays of hierarchical messages is stored at a client device to reduce the cost of requests to display the data. A limited number of messages for a requested list of messages is initially retrieved and displayed and a mechanism for viewing more messages from the list is provided. Historical usage of the mechanism is recorded and the number of messages to be displayed for the list of messages is adjusted based on the historical usage.

An example hierarchical message display generator may reside on a server and provide information for displaying hierarchical messages which information is requested from the display generator over a network. is a block diagram that depicts an example network arrangement for generating hierarchical message displays according to embodiments. Network arrangement includes a client device and a server device communicatively coupled via a network . Server device is also communicatively coupled to a database and client device is communicatively coupled to a display device .

Client device may be implemented by any type of client device that is communicatively connected to network . Example implementations of client device include without limitation workstations personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers cellular telephony devices and any type of mobile devices. In network arrangement client device is configured with a display generator client . Display generator client may be implemented in any number of ways including as a stand alone application as a plug in to a browser which may be implemented on client device etc. Browser is configured to interpret and display web pages received over network such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages and Extensible Markup Language XML pages etc. Browser may also be configured to facilitate other kinds of communication between client device and server device over network .

Client device is also configured with memory which may comprise volatile and or non volatile storage including random access memory RAM one or more hard or floppy disks main memory flash memory memory cards etc. In one embodiment information cache resides in memory . In another embodiment information cache resides on storage that is external to client device . In another embodiment information cache resides on a persistent removable storage device such as a flash drive hard disk storage or Secure Digital SD memory card. In yet another embodiment information cache resides on a combination of multiple storage devices. In one embodiment information cache stores information about hierarchical messages and metadata therefor described in further detail below which are utilized by display generator client to create displays of hierarchical messages. Client device may also be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionality depending upon a particular implementation.

A display device is communicatively coupled to client device and may be implemented by any type of device capable of displaying images produced by client device . Example implementations include a monitor a screen a touch screen a projector a light display a display of a tablet computer a television etc.

Network may be implemented with any type of medium and or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between client device and server device . Furthermore network may use any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured depending upon the requirements of a particular embodiment.

Server device may be implemented by any type of device that is capable of communicating with client device over network . In network arrangement server device is configured with display generator . Display generator is capable of producing information for display generator client . As such display generator may receive and respond to Application Programming Interface API calls from display generator client Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP messages requests via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP etc. or any other kind of message from display generator client . Further display generator may send one or more of the following over network to display generator client information via HTTP HTTPS SMTP etc. XML data SOAP messages API calls and other information according to embodiments.

Display generator may be implemented by one or more logical modules and is described in further detail below. Server device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Server device is communicatively coupled to database . Database may reside in any type of storage including volatile and non volatile storage including random access memory RAM one or more hard or floppy disks or main memory. The storage on which database resides may be external or internal to server device . In one embodiment database stores information about hierarchical messages and metadata therefor described in further detail below which are utilized by display generator .

A hierarchically organized set of messages includes a root message to which all other messages in the hierarchy are either direct or indirect replies. illustrates an example hierarchy of messages . Message is the root node of hierarchy and messages and are known as direct children of message because there are no other messages on respective paths between message and messages in the hierarchy. Messages and are indirect children of message because at least one other message is present on respective paths between message and messages in the hierarchy.

A message hierarchy is composed of levels of messages where messages from a particular level have the same depth in the hierarchy. Particular messages are on the same level if the messages have the same number of messages in respective paths between each respective particular message and the root message. For example message is the only message on a first level of the hierarchy because it is the only message that has zero nodes on the path between the message and the root node i.e. it is the root node. Messages and are on a second level of the hierarchy because they all have one node on a path between the messages and the root node i.e. message . Thus messages and are on a third level of the hierarchy and message is on a fourth level of the hierarchy.

In one embodiment a hierarchically organized set of messages represents a discussion thread. The root message of a discussion thread is the initiating message for the thread. In other words all messages in the hierarchy for a discussion thread other than the root message are either direct or indirect children of and replies to the root message. The direct child of a particular message in a discussion thread hierarchy is a reply message to the particular message. While reference is made to discussion threads herein embodiments are not limited to discussion threads.

Returning to discussion of GUI illustrates a list of root messages where each of the root messages is the root of a respective hierarchy of messages. Information for a root message of a hierarchy of messages may be used to identify the hierarchy of messages. For example messages may be initiating messages for a set of discussion threads relating to a particular topic. Because messages all relate to the particular topic they are grouped together into a list in GUI which may be referred to as a main threads page. A GUI that was reached via GUI may include a shortcut to GUI in toolbar see e.g. main return mechanism in GUI .

GUI includes representations of messages e.g. the visual representations of messages in GUI . A message representation includes information from the associated message. For example a message representation for a particular message may include one or more words from a title of the message date and time information known as a timestamp author information for the message representations of metadata associated with the message and or words from the body of the message. Metadata for a message may include labels such as user flagged important unimportant substantive question read unread message count described in further detail below attachments student type location message type owner type etc. Herein reference to a message is also a reference to the visual representation of the message unless explicitly stated otherwise.

As shown in GUI a message s visual representation e.g. message may include a message count that includes a top number and a bottom number. In one embodiment the top number of message count indicates unread messages associated with message including unread messages in the direct and indirect children of message . In this embodiment the bottom number indicates total messages in a subtree of the hierarchy rooted at message . In another embodiment a message count associated with a root message represents unread messages and total messages for the entire hierarchy. In this embodiment the message count for a message that is not a root message indicates unread messages and total messages among only the direct children of the message. Thus message count provides context information for message and its associated message hierarchy.

Furthermore a message s representation may include one or more visual cues that indicate whether the message is read or unread. Such visual cues may include font type font color font style icons or any other visual cue. For example if a message is unread the title of the message may be bolded and if a message is read the title of the message may be unbolded and or a color that is different than the color of an unread message s title. In an embodiment display generator client displays by default more information for an unread message than for a read message. For example in messages of GUI read messages may be displayed with a collapsed level of detail and unread messages may be displayed with an expanded level of detail as described in further detail below .

A user may select a particular message from messages of GUI to request display of the associated message hierarchy. Mechanisms by which a user may select a message such as message include tapping on message via a touch screen display clicking on message using a digital pointer or selecting message in any other way. In one embodiment a tap selects message when the surface area involved in the tap is predominantly within a visual area of GUI dedicated to message . In other words the portion of the device designated for a message may include a small buffer around the display area for the message to account for fat finger mistakes.

In one embodiment a focal message is a message displayed in a GUI with distinguishing visual features and or more detail shown than is shown for any other messages in the GUI. For example the representation of message the current focal message of GUI includes among other things the entire body of message and the entire title of the message. In contrast the representations for messages none of which are selected as the focal message include only as much of the titles of the respective messages as will fit on a single line of text and include no text from the body of the messages. Further message has a slightly different background color than messages and is at the top of the list of messages which are distinguishing visual features of focal message .

Further visually distinguishing the focal message message also includes controls for the user to add information to the focal message including a reply button and a flag button . When a user activates reply button display generator client provides a GUI form in which the user may input information for a reply message to the focal message. If the user saves information for a reply message to message the reply message is included in the hierarchy as a child message of message . Also a representation of the saved reply message may be included in GUI e.g. as part of messages . Other features may be used to distinguish a focal message from other represented messages.

At step a first message of the plurality of messages and a first set of messages that reside below the first message in the hierarchy are displayed while the first message is selected as a focal message. For example in GUI message is currently selected as the focal message and is displayed with messages . Messages reside below message in the associated hierarchy of messages. In one embodiment messages are direct children of message . In another embodiment messages include both direct and indirect children of message . For example GUI may include messages that are located two or three levels below the focal message. In an embodiment indirect children of a focal message are displayed when the indirect children satisfy pre defined criteria. Such pre defined criteria may include having a timestamp within a particular amount of time of the current time e.g. a day or being associated with particular metadata including being labeled as user flagged important or substantive. In an embodiment the pre defined criteria are configurable by a user.

At step it is determined whether selection of a second message from the first set of messages as the focal message is detected. For example GUI which shows the same messages as GUI illustrates such a selection. In the example of GUI display generator client detects user selection of message mechanisms for which are described in further detail above. Such selection of message indicates the intention of a user to make message the focal message.

At step the second message is established as the focal message. To illustrate display generator client establishes message as the focal message e.g. by recording selection of message at information cache . Messages and represent the same message as message .

At step display of all messages from the first set of messages other than the focal message and a second set of messages is ceased wherein all messages in the second set of messages reside below the second message in the hierarchy. To illustrate after establishing message as the focal message display generator client causes GUI to cease to be displayed and causes GUI to be displayed. GUI displays focal message and messages which reside below focal message in the hierarchy. Thus in GUI only focal message and messages that are children either direct or indirect of message are displayed.

Display generator client may provide a mechanism by which a user may return to the previous focal message that was selected prior to the current focal message. In embodiments a mechanism provided to a user is associated with a GUI element such as a button toggle drop down list selectable text etc. the triggering input for which is activation of the GUI element. When a mechanism is triggered by a triggering input the mechanism performs the function assigned to the mechanism.

In embodiments a mechanism provided to a user to perform a particular function is not associated with a GUI element or is not associated with a GUI element that is designated to perform the function assigned to the mechanism and may be triggered by any number of triggering inputs. A triggering input may be a particular motion detectable by a computing device such as shaking the computing device or a component of the computing device moving the computing device or a component of the computing device quickly to the left or the right rotating the computing device on a horizontal or vertical axis etc. Also a triggering input may be a verbal command user interaction with a touch screen such as a tap swipe double swipe etc. user interaction with a computing device via input devices or any other kind of interaction detectable by a computing device. Input devices may be any manner of peripheral device through which a user may input information to a computing device such as a mouse joystick motion detector etc. communicatively coupled to the computing device. Components of a computing device include any portion of a computing device and any manner of peripheral device communicatively connected to the computing device.

In an embodiment to implement a mechanism by which a user may return to the previous focal message that was selected prior to the current focal message display generator client maintains a history of identifiers of one or more focal messages that have been selected by a user. In response to a user triggering the mechanism by which the user may return to a previous focal message display generator client automatically sets one or more of the historical focal messages as the current focal message and displays the newly selected focal message as described herein.

In one embodiment display generator client provides a return mechanism e.g. return mechanism of GUI by which a user may return to a list of messages via which the user navigated to the current focal message. In the example of GUI activation of return mechanism causes display generator client to display GUI which is the list of messages via which the user navigated to focal message of GUI .

In one embodiment display generator client displays context information for the focal message. Such context information may include information about messages in a path from the focal message to the root message of the hierarchy parent message context information located laterally above information displayed for the focal message. Parent message context information orients a user as to the focal message s relative position in the hierarchy.

For example GUI of illustrates parent message context information for a focal message . Focal message is a direct child of root message in the message hierarchy and thus only one message is in the path between the focal message and the root message of the hierarchy the root message itself. Thus GUI displays information for root message as parent message context information since message is the only parent message of focal message in the hierarchy.

In one embodiment context information for a focal message also includes a mechanism that functions as a shortcut to a list of available hierarchies of messages e.g. a main threads page. In embodiments such shortcuts may cause any appropriate GUI to be displayed including a main menu GUI or any other GUI displaying a list of messages. GUI displays a shortcut activation of which causes display generator client to display GUI which in turn allows a user to navigate among available message hierarchies in the forum. Displaying shortcut laterally above any displayed parent message context information serves to further orient the user indicating that the top of the list of parent messages has been reached and that the user may choose another hierarchy of messages to navigate via the shortcut.

In one embodiment one or more pieces of context information for a focal message including a shortcut to a list of message hierarchies and parent message context information may be briefly displayed for a predetermined amount of time in response to selection of a message as the focal message. Displaying context information for a brief amount of time allows a user to see the context information without burdening the screen with information that may not be needed for navigation as described in further detail below. Thus display generator client makes the context information available while focusing the display space on the focal message and replies thereto.

To illustrate in response to a user selecting message of GUI as the focal message display generator client causes GUI to be displayed before displaying GUI . After a pre determined amount of time e.g. two seconds GUI is replaced with GUI which has the same focal message as GUI but does not show shortcut and does not show any parent message context information for the focal message. In an embodiment an animation transitions GUI to GUI . For example an animation may give a user the impression that the shortcut and parent message context information slide together under toolbar .

GUI of is another example of displaying context information for a focal message as described above. Focal message of GUI is the root message of a message hierarchy and therefore GUI does not include representations of parent messages. However GUI includes shortcut to GUI which indicates to a user that the focal message has no parent messages and that the user has the option of navigating to another hierarchy of messages via shortcut . When a user activates shortcut display generator client to ceases displaying GUI and displays GUI . As with GUI GUI may be displayed for a pre determined amount of time in response to message being selected as the focal message from GUI . After the pre determined amount of time e.g. two seconds GUI is replaced with GUI which has the same focal message as GUI but does not show shortcut . As with GUIs and an animation may transition GUI to GUI .

In an embodiment once the shortcut and any parent message context information have been hidden from view apparently under toolbar a user may drag the list of messages displayed in GUI e.g. by sliding an object such as a finger stylus pen cap etc. down the visual display starting anywhere on messages or to drag the parent messages and shortcut back into view. A user may also position a digital pointer anywhere on messages or and use the pointer to drag the parent messages and shortcut back into view. Also a user may scroll the list of messages up using a scrollbar not illustrated in GUI to reveal the context information. When the parent messages and shortcut are revealed e.g. as in GUI a user may select any one of the displayed messages or activate shortcut .

Selecting a parent message such as message of GUI causes display generator client to establish message as the focal message. To illustrate GUI of illustrates a long list of parent messages . Off the screen laterally under messages is a focal message that is more than six levels deep in the hierarchy. In GUI of which illustrates the same messages as GUI a user selects message as the focal message which is in the middle of the list of parent messages . In one embodiment in response to detecting selection of message as the focal message display generator client establishes message as the focal message and displays GUI of .

The focal message of GUI is the same message as message of GUI . GUI also displays child messages of message as well as a parent message of the focal message. As previously described the context information for message including the main threads shortcut and parent message context information may be displayed for a predetermined amount of time before it is hidden from view.

Context information for a focal message is particularly helpful when a user jumps to a message without navigating to the message from the root message of the associated hierarchy. For example display generator client may provide a user with a shortcut to a particular message within a hierarchy a message shortcut . Activation of a message shortcut establishes the particular message referred to by the shortcut as the focal message and display generator client displays the newly established focal message and context information for the message as described above.

Context information displayed for the message established via a message shortcut including parent messages child messages visual depth indicators and other context information allows a user to quickly orient herself as to the relative position of the message within its message hierarchy. Also parent message context information allows a user to view messages to which the current focal message is a reply and to select a parent message for viewing as a focal message if desired. Further context information such as message count and other visual cues that give further information about metadata and read unread status of the focal message and of other displayed messages allow a user to quickly ascertain the state of messages in the hierarchy.

In one embodiment a message shortcut may be included in the text of a message. In another embodiment a message shortcut may be included in a list of shortcuts compiled by display generator or display generator client . Such a list of shortcuts may represent a list of messages that have been flagged by a user recently accessed by the user unread by the user sent by the user messages marked as substantive all messages authored by a particular user messages that match certain criteria entered by a user etc.

In yet another embodiment a message shortcut may appear in a notification screen that displays information about the existence of a particular message. For example a user may request notifications for replies to messages that the user has authored messages posted by a certain author messages that are newly marked as substantive by any user or by a user of a particular set of users e.g. teachers changes to messages from a certain group of message hierarchies e.g. relating to a particular topic replies to messages that the user has flagged etc. Such an alert may appear as a new GUI that replaces the GUI that is currently displayed by display generator client as a pop up window over the top of the current GUI in a particular portion of the current GUI or in any other way. A message shortcut may display one or more pieces of information from the associated message.

GUI of illustrates visual depth indicators associated with message representations. Visual depth indicators indicate the depth in the hierarchy of the associated messages. In the embodiment illustrated by GUI visual depth indicators are deformations forming a rough triangle in a top border of a message representation. The deformation for a message is of a relatively small width compared to the width of the top border of the message. Further the triangular space created by the deformation is a different color than the rest of the message representation further distinguishing the visual depth indicator. Visual depth indicators may be any visual feature such as the triangular deformations in GUI which are horizontally spaced to indicate a depth of an associated message in a message hierarchy. For example a visual depth indicator may be an icon that is not a deformation of a border of a message representation such as a small circle that appears to hover over the top or bottom border of a message representation or anywhere on the message representation.

At step message text that is displayed for each message of the plurality of messages is positioned at a uniform position along a horizontal axis. For example the representations of each of messages display text of a title for the corresponding message. Display generator client aligns the title text in each of messages at the same position along the horizontal axis of GUI e.g. 20 pixels from the extreme left point of the horizontal axis of GUI or 5 of the length of the horizontal axis of GUI .

At step a visual depth indicator for each message of the plurality of messages is positioned on the horizontal axis at a depth indicating position that is dictated by the depth of the corresponding message within the hierarchy wherein the visual depth indicator is not part of message text. For example display generator client displays a visual depth indicator for each of messages where visual depth indicators are not part of text displayed for the corresponding messages. By separating the text of a message from the visual depth indicator for the message no horizontal space that could otherwise be used for message text is used in indicating the hierarchical depth of the message.

In the embodiment illustrated by GUI visual depth indicator associated with the root message of the hierarchy is aligned at a first point on the horizontal axis of GUI and visual depth indicator associated with a direct child message of the root message is aligned at the same point on the horizontal axis. In this embodiment a visual depth indicator for a root message and visual depth indicators for direct children of the root message are aligned at the same point on the horizontal axis. Also in this embodiment visual depth indicators associated with indirect child messages of the root message of the hierarchy are not aligned with the position on the horizontal axis of the visual depth indicator for the root message. In another embodiment visual depth indicators for both direct and indirect children of the root message are not aligned with a visual depth indicator for the root message of the hierarchy as described in further detail below.

A position for a visual depth indicator may be determined by a multiplying a number based on the depth of an associated message a depth number with b a pre determined measurement representing a length of the horizontal axis an offset measurement and c adding the resulting measurement to a measurement representing the horizontal position of a visual depth indicator for the root message d to produce a resultant position measurement for the visual depth indicator. The visual depth indicator is then placed in visual association with the associated message at a position on the horizontal axis represented by the resultant position measurement for the visual depth indicator.

The resultant position measurement may be used as an offset from any point on the horizontal axis of a GUI displaying the associated message. In embodiments the resultant position measurement is an offset from the extreme left point of such a horizontal axis. A measurement representing a length of the horizontal axis or a position of a visual depth indicator may be a number of pixels to be measured from a certain point on a GUI or may be a percentage of the available resolution of a particular display.

Given that the depth level of a root message is 1 the depth number may be the depth level of the associated message minus one depth 1 in an embodiment where none of the visual depth indicators for child messages of a root message are vertically aligned with a visual depth indicator for the root message or may be the depth level of the associated message minus two depth 2 in an embodiment where visual depth indicators for direct child messages of a root message are vertically aligned with a visual depth indicator for the root message . If the depth number is depth 2 any negative depth numbers are set to 0.

To illustrate determining a resultant position measurement for a visual depth indicator an example is provided for calculating the resultant position measurement for visual depth indicator of GUI which is associated with message . In this example the position measurement for visual depth indicator for the root message of the hierarchy is 20 pixels and the pre determined offset measurement is five pixels. Taking the depth number to be depth 2 display generator client multiplies the depth number which is based on the depth level three for message depth 3 2 1 with the offset measurement five pixels which results in five pixels. This resulting measurement is added to the position measurement for the root message visual depth indicator 20 pixels . Thus the resultant position measurement for visual depth indicator is 25 pixels. In this example visual depth indicator is placed 25 pixels from the extreme left point of the horizontal axis of GUI .

In one embodiment the offset measurement is a pre set measurement e.g. five pixels. However if a focal message is 99 levels deep in the hierarchy then display generator client is required to represent 100 hierarchical levels or more with visual depth indicators. Thus in another embodiment the offset measurement is determined based on the number of hierarchical levels that are represented by the messages to be displayed. Thus in this embodiment the offset measurement is scaled to accommodate for a variable number of levels in the hierarchy to be represented by visual depth indicators.

In an embodiment to calculate a scaled offset measurement display generator client determines a length of horizontal axis across which visual depth indicators may be displayed. For example GUI may be 450 pixels wide and may accommodate visual depth indicators in 400 of those pixels. Display generator client then determines an offset measurement for the visual depth indicators to be displayed in GUI by dividing the length of horizontal axis that may accommodate visual depth indicators e.g. 400 pixels by a total number of depth levels to be represented e.g. 100 levels resulting in a scaled offset measurement e.g. 4 pixels . In another embodiment display generator client calculates a scaled offset measurement by representing the scaled offset measurement as a percentage of the length of the horizontal axis. In this embodiment display generator client divides the percentage of the horizontal axis dedicated to the visual depth indicators e.g. 85 by the number of depth levels to be represented to produce the scaled offset measurement. Further a scaled offset measurement maybe based on the number of depths represented by messages actually displayed on the screen rather than on a total number of depths of all of the messages that are available to be rendered in connection with a particular focal message.

Messages on the same level of a message hierarchy have visual depth indicators that are located at the same point on a horizontal axis of the GUI i.e. the visual depth indicators are vertically aligned. As such all direct child messages of a particular message will have visual depth indicators aligned to the same horizontal point. Thus in an embodiment in which only direct replies to a focal message are displayed by display generator client only one visual depth indicator is used to indicate the depth of all of the reply messages e.g. visual depth indicator of GUI .

In embodiments triggering inputs detected by display generator client further facilitate navigating information displayed by display generator client . illustrates a flowchart for navigating a set of messages using triggering inputs for a computing device. At step a first set of messages is displayed within a graphical user interface on a computing device. For example display generator client displays GUI of that includes messages . illustrate navigation of GUIs which display hierarchical message data. GUIs have the same focal message message and include a list of reply messages to focal message .

At step a first triggering input that targets a particular message of the first set of messages is detected. The first triggering input represents a particular kind of triggering input such as a swipe. A swipe is a sweeping stroke across a graphical user interface. A user may swipe a GUI displayed on a touch screen by placing an object such as a finger stylus pen lid etc. against the touch screen and sweeping the object across the GUI displayed on the touch screen. As another example a user may swipe a GUI using a mouse by holding down a button on the mouse when the electronic cursor is on the GUI and sweeping the mouse across the GUI. Further a user may swipe a GUI displayed on a device that detects light by shining a light on the GUI and sweeping the light across the GUI. Furthermore a user may swipe a GUI using a mouse track pad by placing an object on the mouse track pad when the electronic cursor is over the GUI and sweeping the object across the track pad to sweep the electronic cursor across the GUI. The first triggering input may be any kind of triggering input within embodiments of the invention.

In one embodiment a single swipe is distinguished from a double swipe. A single swipe is a swipe that is performed using only one object e.g. one finger or one pen lid. A double swipe is a swipe that is performed using two objects simultaneously e.g. moving two fingers across a touch screen etc.

In an embodiment the first triggering input targets the particular message without activating any visible control e.g. GUI element displayed within the graphical user interface in visual association with the representation of particular message. In other words the first triggering input triggers a mechanism that is not assigned to be the function of any element of the GUI.

For an example of step display generator client detects a swipe across a portion of GUI on which message is displayed where GUI is displayed at display device . In this example the swipe is a triggering input that targets message because surface area of the swipe is located on the portion of GUI on which message is displayed. In one embodiment a swipe is only considered to be across a portion of the device on which message is displayed if the swipe does not go outside of the area of GUI dedicated to displaying message . In another embodiment a swipe is considered to be across a portion of the device on which message is displayed if the swipe is substantially within the area of GUI dedicated to displaying message e.g. if a majority more than 50 of the area of a swipe is on message .

Various actions may be triggered in response to detecting the first triggering input e.g. a swipe type of triggering input on a message. In one embodiment a first triggering input that targets a message triggers a change in the amount of detail in which the message is displayed. For example at step in response to detecting the first triggering input it is determined whether the particular message is currently displayed in the graphical user interface at a first level of detail or a second level of detail. Continuing with the example given in connection with step when display generator client detects the swipe on message display generator client determines whether message is displayed in GUI at a first level of detail or a second level of detail where the second level of detail is more detailed than the first level of detail.

A reply message to a displayed focal message may be displayed with a collapsed level of detail e.g. the first level of detail or an expanded level of detail e.g. the second level of detail . An expanded level of detail includes more detail than a collapsed level of detail. In one embodiment both the collapsed and expanded levels of detail have less detail than detail shown for a focal message. For example GUI illustrates a collapsed representation of message and GUI illustrates an expanded representation of the same message at message . A collapsed message may include at least a portion of the message title an author a time stamp and one or more indicia of metadata. An expanded message may include all of the information of a collapsed message plus at least a portion of the message body text. Also as shown in GUI an expanded message may include a reply mechanism for posting reply messages to expanded message and a flag mechanism for flagging expanded message . In one embodiment any message in messages of GUI that has not yet been read by the user is displayed with an expanded amount of detail by default when message is displayed as the focal message.

At step responsive to the particular message being currently displayed in the graphical user interface at the first level of detail when the first triggering input is detected the particular message is caused to be displayed at the second level of detail. To illustrate in the example of GUI display generator client determines that message on which a swipe was detected was displayed with a collapsed or first level of detail when the swipe was detected. As a result and as illustrated by GUI display generator client displays message at an expanded or second level of detail.

At step responsive to the particular message being currently displayed in the graphical user interface at the second level of detail when the first triggering input is detected the particular message is caused to be displayed at the first level of detail. To illustrate display generator client detects a swipe across message of GUI and determines that message is displayed at an expanded level of detail. In response display generator client displays message of GUI at a collapsed level of detail where message represents the same message as message .

A first triggering input that targets a particular message as described in connection with flowchart does not affect other messages displayed with the particular message. For example the swipe detected across message increases the level of detail at which message is displayed at message but does not affect the level of detail with which focal message and messages other than message are displayed. Furthermore in one embodiment a first triggering input that targets a particular message does not cause the particular message to be established as a focal message.

A second triggering input of a different type than the first triggering input described above may be used to expand and contract the levels of detail of multiple messages displayed by display generator client . In an embodiment such a second triggering input is a double swipe type triggering input that targets one or more messages displayed by display generator client . However the second triggering input may be any kind of triggering input within embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment a double swipe targets one or more messages displayed by display generator client when the double swipe is on a portion of a GUI that displays the one or more messages. For example GUI of illustrates a double swipe that targets one or more of messages . Messages and of represent reply messages for the same focal message .

Second triggering inputs are alternatively treated as expanding second triggering inputs and collapsing second triggering inputs. That is a second triggering input that immediately follows an expanding second triggering input is treated as a collapsing second triggering input. Conversely a second triggering input that immediately follows a collapsing second triggering input is treated as an expanding second triggering input.

According to one embodiment in response to detecting a second triggering input display generator client determines whether the second triggering input is an expanding second triggering input or a collapsing second triggering input. If the second triggering input illustrated as a double swipe by GUI is an expanding second triggering input then display generator client displays at an expanded level of detail any of messages that were displayed at a collapsed level of detail at the time of the expanding second triggering input as illustrated by messages of GUI .

When display generator client detects the next second triggering input illustrated in GUI as a double swipe on the portion of GUI that displays messages display generator client determines that the detected second triggering input is a collapsing second triggering input. In response to detecting the collapsing second triggering input display generator client displays at a collapsed level of detail any of messages that were displayed at an expanded level of detail at the time of the collapsing second triggering input as illustrated by messages of GUI . The next second triggering input that display generator client detects on reply messages to focal message will be categorized as an expanding second triggering input.

A user may use an expanding second triggering input to expand all replies to a particular focal message and then use first triggering inputs on the expanded replies individually to collapse the detail for each message. Then if the user again wishes to expand all replies to the particular focal message the user may again use a second triggering input on the reply messages. However if this second triggering input is considered to be a collapsing second triggering input then the collapsing second triggering input attempts to collapse all expanded messages. Since there are no expanded messages in the list of reply messages this collapsing second triggering input is to no effect. In this embodiment the user must use a second triggering input again which is now considered to be an expanding second triggering input which will expand the detail of all of the replies to the particular focal message.

To avoid making any second triggering input to no effect in another embodiment in response to detecting an expanding second triggering input display generator client determines whether any of messages GUI are displayed at a collapsed level of detail. If not then display generator client determines that the expanding second triggering input is actually a collapsing second triggering input and collapses the messages accordingly. Also in response to detecting a collapsing second triggering input display generator client determines whether any of messages are displayed at an expanded level of detail. If not then display generator client determines that the expanding second triggering input is actually a collapsing second triggering input and collapses the messages accordingly. In this embodiment if a particular second triggering input would take no effect under its original categorization then the category of the second triggering input is adjusted so that the second triggering input will affect the detail level of the targeted messages.

In one embodiment a second triggering input affects all reply messages of the focal message. In another embodiment a second triggering input affects only those reply messages that are actually displayed on display device .

Every request made to display generator client has an associated cost which takes into account the costs for functions that are performed in response to the request. For example a request made to display generator client to display a particular GUI may involve retrieving information from display generator via network that incurs a first cost component compiling the information received from display generator into a format needed to render the GUI that incurs a second component cost and rendering the GUI that incurs a third cost component etc. The cost components for the steps involved in displaying a requested GUI all contribute to the total cost of displaying the GUI.

To reduce the cost of requests to display generator client display generator client maintains an information cache to store information that has been retrieved from display generator via network . Storage of retrieved information at information cache limits the amount of information that needs to be retrieved in the future. Information cache may include message hierarchy data including the content of messages in the hierarchy how the messages are interrelated metadata for the messages and message hierarchy statistical data associated with the message hierarchy etc. Information cache may also include the content of various lists of messages as the lists were last retrieved from display generator including lists of messages related by topic such as messages displayed together in a main threads page or any other kind of list that may be requested by a user.

Once information for a message hierarchy has been retrieved display generator client only retrieves information that has changed for the hierarchy since the last time data was fetched from display generator . In an embodiment where hierarchies of messages are discussion threads the text for a message that has been added to a hierarchy does not change once the message is authored. Thus once message text is retrieved from display generator the text may be stored at information cache and need not be transmitted via network again. Updates for an authored message will generally involve only metadata and context information which may be added to information cache when the updated metadata and context information is retrieved.

Thus local storage of hierarchical message data in information cache facilitates rapid display of the data when such a display is requested because the cost of retrieving data over network is lessened. When display generator client receives a request to display a list of messages display generator client sends a request to display generator for updates to a the list of messages requested from display generator client and b for updates to message hierarchies represented in the list of messages.

If it is the first time that display generator client has received a request to display GUI which means that display generator client does not have any information for GUI in information cache then display generator sends to display generator client all information to be displayed in GUI . Further display generator will send all information for hierarchies represented in GUI that are not stored in information cache and for hierarchies represented in GUI that are already in information cache information that has changed since the last time the hierarchies were updated.

In one embodiment a list of messages displayed by display generator client has an associated page size that limits the number of messages that are retrieved and displayed for the list. In this embodiment display generator client only fetches from display generator update information for message hierarchies associated with messages in the list that are to be displayed based on the page size. Thus the page size limits how much information must be retrieved from display generator via network .

In embodiments a list of messages is organized by reverse chronological order based on timestamps associated with the messages in the list. Timestamps by which messages are ordered may pertain to any feature of a message including when the message was authored when the message was assigned particular metadata flagged substantive etc. when an associated message hierarchy was last modified when a message in the subtree rooted at the message was last modified etc.

A page size limits display of a reverse chronologically organized list of messages to a particular number of messages with the most recent timestamps. Many times a user is most interested in messages with the most recent timestamps in a list of messages and using page sizes display generator client limits what is fetched from display generator to the most interesting and pertinent information.

In one embodiment a page size for a message list is stored for each user that accesses the message list. For example information cache at client device may store the page size for a particular message list for a particular user. The page size may be adjusted at information cache and is not overwritten by data from display generator unless display generator specifically overwrites the data. Page sizes associated with users may also be stored at database for display generator .

To determine a number of messages to display for a particular message list display generator client uses the page size for the particular message list that is recorded for the particular user.

A page size that is initially associated with a particular list of messages is assigned based on a pre determined page size number that may be stored at display generator . For example it may be determined that users are generally interested in the 25 most recently modified messages. Thus display generator sets the initial page size for all lists of messages to 25. In another embodiment display generator stores multiple pre determined page sizes that are assigned to message lists based on particular features of the various message list. For example a page size may be assigned to a list of messages based on the topic of the message on statistical data stored for the list of messages which may include how frequently new message are included in message hierarchies associated with the list or how often users trigger a mechanism for viewing more messages in the list etc.

Display generator client may provide a mechanism to allow a user to view more messages of a message list displayed by display generator client . illustrates a flowchart for displaying a quantity of messages in a list including implementing a mechanism for viewing more messages than are originally displayed. At step a first number of messages from a first set of messages are displayed within a graphical user interface on a computing device. For example display generator client determines that a page size associated with messages is 25. Though there are 100 messages associated with GUI display generator client displays GUI at display device with only 25 messages based on the page size for messages . The 25 messages may be the 25 most recently modified messages of messages and may be ordered in reverse chronological order.

At step a mechanism is provided by which a user may view additional messages from the first set of messages. For example display generator client provides a see more button at the end of the limited number of messages displayed at GUI . Activation of see more button displays more messages of messages e.g. the next 25 most recently modified messages associated with the list displayed by GUI . In response to activation of see more button display generator client requests from display generator any information needed for displaying messages in the list of GUI that is not in information cache and update data for message hierarchies associated with the additional messages to be viewed.

At step a history of usage of the mechanism is maintained. For example display generator client tracks a number of times the user activates see more button . Display generator client may also track a number of times that the user has viewed GUI . When a default page size for a particular list of messages is adjusted display generator client may start a new history of usage of a mechanism for viewing more of the particular list of messages.

At step the first number of messages which are displayed within the graphical user interface when a subsequent request to display messages from the first set of messages is received is increased in response to detecting that historical usage of the mechanism satisfies certain pre defined criteria. For example display generator client determines that historical usage of see more button satisfies pre defined criteria when see more button has been activated at least a threshold number of times e.g. the button has been activated once or when see more button has been activated at least a threshold number of times within a total number of views of GUI e.g. the button was activated twice in a total of three views of GUI .

In response to determining that the historical usage of see more button satisfies pre defined criteria display generator client increases the page size associated with messages . Display generator client may determine a new page size for messages for a particular user based on the historical usage of see more button recorded for the particular user. For example if see more button was used to cause 75 total messages from messages to be displayed to the user then display generator client may set the new page size associated with messages for the particular user to be 75 messages. Furthermore display generator client may set the new page size for messages for the particular user to be the average of the total messages caused to be displayed as a result of the user activating see more button .

After setting a new page size for messages for a user the next time the user requests that display generator client display GUI display generator client displays a number of messages based on the new page size for the message list recorded for the user e.g. display generator client displays 75 of the most recently modified messages of messages .

A user may be associated with a page size number for each of more than one message list. For example a particular user has accessed both a first message list messages of that lists discussion threads for a first topic and a second message list that lists discussion threads for a second topic. Display generator sets a default page size for the particular user for messages as 25 messages and a default page size for the particular user for the second message list as 10 messages.

Display generator client receives a request from the particular user to display the second message list. Display generator client prepares a GUI with 10 messages from the second message list based on the default page size for the second message list for the particular user. While the GUI displays the second message list the particular user triggers a mechanism for viewing more messages from the second message list. Display generator client then displays more of the messages from the second message list to the particular user e.g. 20 total messages.

Display generator client maintains a history of usage of the mechanism for displaying more messages from the second message list. When the history of usage satisfies certain pre defined criteria which may or may not be the same as the pre defined criteria associated with see more button display generator client increases the default page size for the particular user for the second message list. When the particular user requests that display generator client display the second message list after display generator client increased the default page size for the particular user for the second message list display generator client displays a GUI with a number of messages from the second list of messages that is based on the new default page size.

In one embodiment when a particular user triggers a mechanism for displaying more messages from a first message list display generator adjusts the default page size for a second message list for the particular user. For example display generator determines that first and second message lists have a common property e.g. the lists have a common administrator user the lists pertain to the same topic etc. Thus when historical usage of a mechanism for increasing the number of displayed messages for the first message list satisfies pre defined criteria display generator client and or display generator increases a default page size for the second message list for the particular user. The pre defined criteria of this embodiment may or may not be the same as pre defined criteria for increasing the default page size for the first message list for the particular user.

In another embodiment if historical usage of a mechanism for viewing more messages from a certain list of messages satisfies certain pre defined criteria a default page size for multiple users for the certain list of messages is adjusted to at least a threshold value. For example such pre defined criteria may be a certain percentage of the total users of the certain list of messages have satisfied criteria to increase the page size for the certain list of messages which results in a page size increase associated with the certain list of messages for all users of the certain list of messages.

In addition to updating information cache when a user requests display of a message list display generator client may also update information cache upon other events. For example GUI of illustrates a focal message and messages that are child messages of message as described above. Display generator client may update data in information cache for message and messages including metadata context data and new reply messages when a user activates toolbar e.g. by clicking or tapping on an area of toolbar that is not a shortcut. Further display generator client may update data in information cache for message and messages when message is established as the focal message.

Display generator client may also update information cache upon receiving a request to display a notification with a message shortcut to the user. Many times such a notification occurs when new data has been added to one of the message hierarchies that are stored at information cache . Thus when a notification is received display generator client may retrieve updated information for a message hierarchy associated with the message referred to by the message shortcut in the notification. As stated previously updates for information cache retrieved from display generator is limited to information that has changed since the last time that requested information was updated. Thus when a user receives many notifications about new messages in an active message hierarchy display generator client only retrieves information that is not already in information cache upon receiving the notifications. Information cache allows display generator client to retrieve context information for a message referred to in a message shortcut quickly without retrieving information already stored at information cache from display generator via network .

Server policies managed by display generator or client policies managed by display generator client may control when information cache is updated. Such policies may restrict a rate of updating information cache e.g. during certain days and times. For example a server policy may be set by an administrator user that requires that an information cache such as information cache be updated at no more than a certain rate from 4 00 PM to 8 00 PM on weekdays. An update rate indicates a certain number of updates in a certain amount of time e.g. once every minute . As another example a server or client policy may require that if a particular display generator client such as display generator client is connected to display generator via a particular kind of network connection e.g. 3G or non WiFi etc. then the information cache associated with the client is updated at no more than a certain rate. As yet another example a server policy may state that if the time for display generator to respond to a client request is above a certain threshold e.g. 30 seconds then the rate of updating any information cache associated with any client may not exceed a certain rate. Client policies may be set by individual users e.g. by allowing a user to adjust information management preferences at display generator client . In an embodiment server policies are applicable to multiple users such as to a group of users or to all users and client policies are applicable to the user that set the client policies.

Keeping information cache current with information at server device allows a user to jump to a message e.g. referred to in a message shortcut without incurring the relatively significant cost of downloading all of the context information and related messages to populate a GUI. Also information cache allows the above described GUIs to be used when client device has lost connection with network . Furthermore display generator client can run searches on information cache without requesting invocation of any search functionality at server device .

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

