---

title: System and method for transporting a virtual avatar within multiple virtual environments
abstract: A virtual venue application for displaying information is provided, where the virtual venue application is implemented as part of an apparatus, or a system. The virtual venue application allows one or more users to generate and display a virtual avatar that represents a user of the virtual venue application. The virtual venue application also displays a virtual venue, where the display of the virtual venue is based on a position of the virtual avatar within the virtual venue. The virtual venue application also transports a virtual avatar from a first location to a second location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563902&OS=09563902&RS=09563902
owner: MYRIATA, INC.
number: 09563902
owner_city: Walnut Creek
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate generally to displaying information by utilizing computer based environments and more particularly to navigation and interaction in computer based virtual environments that represent real world events life memories meeting places and other venues enabling users to locate contribute and share personal information with other users while creating virtual representations of individuals groups or events in an animated two or three dimensional world format.

The existence of an environment where people can have and share experiences is acknowledged as a primary requirement for effective communication and collaboration. This is exceptionally valuable during traumatic and stressful periods of loss instances of accomplishment or celebrations and other benchmarks within human and animal life. Collaboration in the real world typically occurs at specific locations at which people can see and hear each other and thereby communicate. The physical locations where people meet have boundaries for example walls that separate the locations from one another. These boundaries serve to limit what people can see and hear and therefore allows these locations to provide a structure for collaboration. Physical locations can also provide a structure of information. Information objects such as music photographs videos and graphic images can be placed in a location and arranged in various sub locations to enable people to find and organize specific information such as historic events affinities individual attributes and relationship between family and friends. Furthermore physical locations can be designed for specific types of work or collaboration. For example an individual s office is designed for individual work while a conference room is designed for cooperative work among multiple participants.

The development of computer mediated communication has created potential for people to collaborate and interact with others in new ways. For example a collaborative virtual environment CVE is a computer based distributed virtual space where people can meet and interact with each other with agents or with virtual objects provides an alternate venue for communication. CVEs are implemented to reflect real world interaction by providing a text based system for interaction or a two or three dimensional graphical virtual world that is visualized for virtual interaction. Virtual worlds are built on coding protocols that use a metaphor of an imaginary place or the real world without its physical limitations to define what can and cannot be done. A virtual world can be represented using graphics images video force feedback and audio data to define a representation of a place that can be accessed by one or more users within a distributed computer system. Typically the virtual world enables multiple users to simultaneously perceive and interact with the virtual world and with each other through different computers that are connected by a network. For example virtual communities such as Linden Lab s Second Life provide a three dimensional persistent virtual world in which users interact with each other socially and economically the local environment and with software agents using virtual characters in a cyber space. The degree of interaction between the users and the virtual world is implemented by one or more computer applications that govern such interactions as simulated physics exchange of information between players and the like.

User participation in a virtual world can be driven by for example social educational and business motivations. While virtual worlds have primarily been adopted to offer new spaces for promoting socialization they have also exhibited potential to support collaboration by providing new ways to communicate and increasing the awareness of the participants and available resources without the physical space and time constraints of the real world. For example while an individual who is geographically distant from a location where an impromptu conference wedding funeral or other event is being held would be physically unable to attend this event this individual would be able to participate in such an event were it held in a virtual world via a network. Nevertheless the limitations of existing virtual communications may still prevent this individual from sharing physical information objects such as notes papers and presentations with the other participants. Therefore while virtual worlds provide a mechanism through which better and more effective collaboration can be enabled by providing new ways for people to interact and communicate the nature of the interactions between users in a virtual world can be limited by the constraints of the system implementing the virtual world.

According to an embodiment of the invention a method for displaying a virtual avatar within a virtual environment is provided. The method includes generating by a first virtual venue application implemented on a first server a virtual avatar that represents a user of the first virtual venue application. The method further includes transporting the virtual avatar from the first location of the first virtual venue within the first virtual venue application to a second location of a second virtual venue of a second virtual venue application implemented on a second server.

According to another embodiment an apparatus is provided where the apparatus includes a memory configured to store a virtual venue module. The apparatus further includes a processor configured to execute the virtual venue module stored on the memory. The processor is further configured when executing the virtual venue module stored on the memory to generate a virtual avatar that represents a user of a first virtual venue application. The processor is further configured when executing the virtual venue module stored on the memory to transport the virtual avatar from the first location of the first virtual venue within the first virtual venue application to a second location of a second virtual venue of a second virtual venue application.

According to another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is provided where the non transitory computer readable medium includes a computer program stored thereon that when executed by a processor causes the processor to implement a method. The method includes generating by a first virtual venue application implemented on a first server a virtual avatar that represents a user of the first virtual venue application. The method further includes transporting the virtual avatar from the first location of the first virtual venue within the first virtual venue application to a second location of a second virtual venue of a second virtual venue application implemented on a second server.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus system and computer readable medium as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment another embodiment an alternative embodiment an alternate embodiment certain embodiments some embodiments different embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment another embodiment an alternative embodiment an alternate embodiment in certain embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments in different embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

A computer as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is any programmable machine that receives input automatically stores and manipulates data and provides output. A computer program is any sequence of instructions written to perform a specific task on a computer and has an executable form that a computer typically through the use of a processor can use to execute the instructions. A computer module software module or module is any computer program or a portion thereof that encapsulates related functions. A computer application software application or application is any collection of computer programs and or modules. A computer network or network is any collection of computers interconnected by communication channels that facilitate communication among the computers.

In addition a service or web service as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is a module or application designed to support interoperable computer to computer interaction over a network. A service can have an interface described in a computer processable format. A computer can interact with a service by sending messages over a network protocol. Examples of services are Big Web services and RESTful services. Big Web services are services that follow a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP standard and use Extensible Markup Language XML messages. RESTful services are services that utilize a Representational State Transfer REST style of software architecture where clients are separate from servers by a uniform interface.

As an example of an application a web application is an application that is accessed over a network such as the Internet or an intranet. In general a web application is displayed on a graphical user interface of a web browser. Examples of web browsers include an Internet Explorer web browser a Mozilla Firefox web browser a Google Chrome web browser an Apple Safari web browser and an Opera web browser.

A user of a web application is able to interact with the web application using a cursor control. Examples of cursor controls include a computer mouse an optical mouse a touchpad an optical touchpad a trackball a touchscreen and a stylus. A cursor control can be moved by the user. Such movement can include a single pressing down or click of a cursor control button a double pressing down or double click of a cursor control button a displacement of the cursor control to a different location while a cursor control button is pressed down and a release of a cursor control button. A cursor control can send one or more events to the web application in response to a movement of the cursor control by the user. An event is a message that can be sent to a web application to indicate that an action has occurred such as a movement of a cursor control. The web application can receive the one or more events sent by the cursor control and perform specified functionality based on the one or more events.

An example of the specified functionality based on one or more events is a manipulation of a virtual object object of a web application that is represented by a visual icon displayed on the graphical user interface of the web browser by the web application. An object is an entity that comprises a value variable function data structure or compilation of values variables and functions that are encapsulated. According to the example a user can move a cursor control such as clicking on a cursor control button which causes the cursor control to send one or more events to the web application. The web application receives the one or more events and modifies the visual icon that represents the object accordingly.

As another example of an application a tablet application is also an application that is accessed over a network such as the Internet or an intranet. In general a tablet application is displayed on a graphical user interface of a tablet computer or tablet. Examples of tablets include an Apple iPad a Samsung Galaxy Tab a Blackberry Playbook and Hewlett Packard TouchPad . A user of a tablet application is able to interact with the tablet application using any of the cursor controls described above however the most common kind of cursor control is the touchscreen which allows for the sending of events to the tablet application based on simple finger strokes and touches .

One embodiment of the invention is a virtual venue application for displaying a virtual venue where the virtual venue application can be implemented as part of an apparatus such as a server or a system such as a computer system. The virtual venue application can allow one or more users to store digital information where the virtual venue application can display the stored digital information within a virtual environment where the virtual environment can be presented by one or more two or three dimensional screens displayed within a user interface. The virtual venue application can also allow users to locate other users selectively establish a contact relationship or connection with other users and share the stored digital information with other users. Thus the virtual venue application can enable interaction between users in a virtual environment.

According to the embodiment a user can utilize the virtual venue application to create a venue that includes one or more exhibits and display the venue to other users within a virtual environment. Each exhibit of the venue can include one or more rooms where a room is an organizational construct for organizing aspects of the theme of the exhibit. In certain embodiments users can virtually move from one room to another room within the virtual environment. Furthermore in certain embodiments users can augment a room based on one or more privileges associated with the exhibit. In addition the virtual venue application can support a larger organizational construct for associating one or more exhibits with a virtual venue.

Examples of virtual venues include a museum and a memorial. A museum is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying one or more virtual artifacts and other virtual objects in a virtual environment. A memorial is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with a memory of something such as a person either living or dead or an event in a virtual environment. Thus a museum and memorial are each examples of a virtual venue that differ with respect to the content and the organization of the content displayed within the virtual venue type.

However examples of virtual venues can include other virtual venue types. For example examples of virtual venues can also include an advertiser a self museum a corporate product display a trip museum a storefront a shopping mall a document cache a mixer room a street fair an art gallery a movie theater an observatory an encyclopedia a textbook and a future memorial. An advertiser is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with a product in a virtual environment. A self museum is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying one or more virtual artifacts and other virtual objects in a virtual environment where the virtual artifacts and other virtual objects are associated with an individual who collected the virtual artifacts and other virtual objects. A trip museum is a virtual venue type that includes a virtual display of travel related information created collaboratively by multiple individuals sharing travel experience. A corporate product display is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with a product of a corporation in a virtual environment. A store front is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with a store that sells one or more products in a virtual environment. A shopping mall is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with a collection of stores in a virtual environment. A document cache is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with one or more physical documents in a virtual environment which can limit who can view information and the time period in which it can be viewed. A mixer room is a virtual venue type for providing a virtual environment that facilitates interaction between one or more users. A street fair is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with an outdoor fair in a virtual environment. An art gallery is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with one or more artworks in a virtual environment. A movie theater is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with one or more movies in a virtual environment. An observatory is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with one or more physical telescopes in a virtual environment. An encyclopedia is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with one or more encyclopedias in a virtual environment. A textbook is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with one or more textbooks. A future memorial is a virtual venue type for collecting and displaying digital information associated with a person in preparation for the death of the person in a virtual environment. Further details of the virtual venue application are described below.

A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by processor . A computer readable medium may include both a volatile and nonvolatile medium a removable and non removable medium and a storage medium. A storage medium may include RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . Display can display information to the user. A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse can also be operatively coupled to bus to enable the user to interface with apparatus .

According to one embodiment memory can store software modules that may provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules can include virtual venue module . Virtual venue module can create and display a virtual representation of a venue as is described below in greater detail. In certain embodiments virtual venue module can comprise a plurality of modules that each provide specific individual functionality for creating and displaying a virtual representation of a venue.

According to the embodiment the modules can also include an operating system as well as other functional modules . Operating system can provide an operating system functionality for apparatus . Apparatus can also be part of a larger system. Thus apparatus can include one or more additional functional modules to include additional functionality for the system.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a database . Database can store data in an integrated collection of logically related records or files. Database can be an operational database an analytical database a data warehouse a distributed database an end user database an external database a navigational database an in memory database a document oriented database a real time database a relational database an object oriented database or any other database known in the art.

The object model illustrated in includes venue exhibit room and user . Venue represents a virtual venue with all of its ordinality relationships depicted. As previously described a virtual venue is a virtual organizational construct where a type of virtual venue can be one of many different types of virtual venues including types of virtual venues previously indicated. Exhibit represents a component of a venue with all of its ordinality relationships depicted where a venue can include one or more exhibits. Exhibits such as exhibit can be associated with a specific theme and that can be utilized to organize the content displayed within the venue. Room represents a virtual two or three dimensional representation of digital information displayed by the virtual venue application with all its ordinality relationships depicted. Thus a room is a component of an exhibit where an exhibit can have one or more rooms. Rooms are described below in greater detail with respect to .

User represents a user of the virtual venue application. According to the embodiments user can be associated with one or more roles. Examples of roles include guest user member operator finance manager curator designer portal administrator developer and advertiser. A user associated with a guest role can access the virtual venue application and cause the virtual venue application to display information associated with a venue. A user associated with the guest role is not required to register to create an account but the user does not have the rights to edit information associated with the venue. A user associated with the guest role can participate with other users of the venue but participation can be limited. A user who acquires an account in the virtual venue application gains a user role and an ability to be a member of one or more venues. A user who is a member of a specific venue has the rights to visit the venue s non public exhibits and rooms where the virtual venue application can display the venue to the user. A user who is a member of a specific venue also has the rights to place objects to be displayed within the virtual venue application identified as ShowObjects . A user associated with an operator role for a specific venue can manage which users have access to the venue and what rights the users have within the venue. Thus a user associated with the operator role for a specific venue controls which users have specific privileges. This means that a user associated with an operator role for a specific venue can also control which users have access to the venue s exhibits. A user associated with a finance manager role for a specific venue can access current payments due that are associated with the specific venue can change a payment method associated with the specific venue can browse payment history associated with a value and can access revenues generated that are associated with the specific venue. A user associated with a curator role for a specific venue controls a room layout of one or more exhibits within the specific venue. Thus a user associated with the curator role for a specific venue can create delete and modify a room layout associated with an exhibit and may also suggest objects to be placed in a specific room. A user associated with a designer role for a specific venue can modify a layout and presentation of a single room or multiple rooms. A user associated with a portal administrator role for the entire virtual venue application can access one or more portal administrator screens that administer areas of the virtual venue application such as statistics billing members and venues. A user associated with a developer role can construct new items that can be utilized by the virtual venue application. A user associated with the developer role can provide new modules and new XML definitions that can be utilized by the virtual venue application. A user associated with the developer role can also import new objects to be displayed within the virtual venue application identified as ShowObjects ShowObject collections as well as avatar accessories. A user associated with the advertiser role can create modify or delete advertisements within a venue of an advertiser venue type. In some embodiments a guest can only browse virtual venues but not enter them while in other embodiments a guest can enter any public virtual venues. In some embodiments a guest is required to become a user to enter any virtual venue even public virtual venues. This means that the user needs to become a member of a site that hosts the virtual venue application. One a user is a member of the site a user may become a member of specific private membership only virtual venues. This can only happen via a request to the virtual venue or an invitation from the virtual venue s operator. Once a member depending on the access settings of a specific room a member may or may not be able to place their own virtual objects in a room.

For example a statistics screen can present an overview of the following virtual venue statistics such as museum statistics and memorial statistics member statistics and visitor statics. These statistics can be further studied for quantity pareto histograms showing distribution of various characteristics member and user activity such as concurrent user activity on the virtual venue application and recent visitation numbers. A billing screen can display revenue studies of paying members and virtual venues list of members that are past due and billing models that govern how a virtual venue is to be paid for. A members screen can provide a user the ability to manage member accounts. A user associated with a portal administrator role can view site member account statistics such as site membership start date number of virtual venues billing model plans total revenue and account current status and can enable or disable accounts. A virtual venues screen can provide a user associated with a portal administrator role the ability to manage virtual venues. A user associated with a portal administrator role can view virtual venue statistics such as founded date founder s theme number of exhibits number of rooms number of public exhibits and rooms link to virtual venue billing model plan and total revenue. According to the embodiment each user can access one or more virtual venues and each virtual venue can have one or more users assigned to it. In certain embodiments an advertisement can be displayed based on an amount of traffic associated with the virtual venue. In some of these embodiments that require a finer grain of control advertisements can be displayed based on an amount of traffic associated with a specific exhibit or room of the virtual venue.

According to certain embodiments the object model illustrated in can also include a venue group not shown . A venue group is a representation of one or more associated venues and thus a venue group can include one or more venues.

A face has one or more containers such as container where a container is a holder for objects to be displayed within the virtual venue application identified as ShowObjects . Thus a container is a displayer container that can be attached to a face. Containers are described below in greater detail in relation to .

According to the embodiment a container has one or more ShowSpots such as ShowSpot where a ShowSpot is an object mount that can host a display object to be displayed within the virtual venue application i.e. a ShowObject . Thus a ShowSpot is an example of an object mount and a ShowObject is an example of a display object. In the illustrated embodiment a ShowSpot such as ShowSpot can only host one ShowObject. However in alternate embodiments a ShowSpot can host one or more ShowObjects. A notable attribute of a ShowSpot is its position declaration. The position declaration may take on one of the following forms 1 an absolute x y z coordinate position on the container 2 a rule based x y z coordinate position on the container that allows a degree of freedom in where the ShowObject is placed for example along a line or cover or within a region and 3 a dynamic coordinate position which is a position declaration for a region stating that there may be any number of ShowObjects placed as desired up to a limit and based on specific rules. For example the rules can restrict ShowObject dimensions and can enforce avoidance of ShowObject collision if desired.

According to the embodiment as previously described a ShowSpot has a ShowObject such as ShowObject where a ShowObject is a display object that is displayed within the virtual venue application. ShowObjects are the main reason that the other constructs exist as the ShowObjects represent the digital information that comprises the virtual venue displayed by the virtual venue application. Thus the other constructs organize hold up and present the ShowObjects. ShowObjects can be two or three dimensional objects that represent real or imagined objects. In certain embodiments ShowObjects can also publish one or more properties that can be manipulated to modify a display of the ShowObjects.

Any of the objects of the object model illustrated in can have one or more animators such as animator associated with it. An animator manipulates one or more properties of its associated object s . Thus an animator is what gives dynamic characteristics to an exhibit of a virtual venue displayed within the virtual venue application. The dynamics may be very simple or very sophisticated. Properties that can be manipulated by an animator can include positions colors transparencies dimensions textures adding deleting faces containers or other objects or any other visual properties. According to the embodiment a relationship of animators to each other object is N to N. This is because any object can have multiple animators assigned to it and each animator can be reused by multiple objects.

The room object model illustrated in can be used to provide room geometry for a room displayed within the virtual venue application. The room geometry can range from simple geometry to more sophisticated geometry so that very sophisticated and elaborate rooms can be built by a user. In certain embodiments a room may contain other child rooms such as room . One use of such child rooms is to construct an outer environment such as an ocean a field space diorama planetarium greenhouse garden or other environment . According to these embodiments one or more faces of the room may be transparent to allow the outer environment to be displayed to a user in order to provide a pleasing presentation. Additionally a room can have entirely all transparent faces. In this way the displayed objects can be mounted but can look like they are outside especially if a room is completely transparent and an outer room includes stunning visuals. Furthermore faces of a room do not have to be restricted to an enclosed space or even a continuous collection of faces. Faces may be placed anywhere even in the middle of a room and can be opaque partially transparent or fully transparent.

In certain embodiments the virtual venue application can provide one or more venue templates for creating a virtual venue. A venue template is a virtual venue that is partially created and that can have one or more variables where each variable can control a specific attribute of the virtual venue. A user of the virtual venue application can utilize a venue template to create a virtual venue rather than creating the virtual venue from scratch. According to the embodiments when utilizing a venue template to assemble a virtual venue the venue template can include one or more created exhibits where each completed exhibit can include one or more completed rooms. In certain embodiments each completed room can include one or more completed containers where each completed container can include one or more completed ShowObjects. In certain embodiments the venue template can include one or more ShowObject libraries that can make it easier to add customer items within specific themes. In certain embodiments a form can be assembled which is based on any variables of the one or more variables of the venue template.

According to the embodiments the one or more variables can be used to control dimensions of one or more components of the venue that can be created based on the venue template. For example one or more equations can be used to govern a size of a room s length. The length can be described for example as RoomLengthPercent 30 so that a length of the room can be lengthened or shortened based on the variable being greater or smaller than 100 . As another example a variable can be a name that can be inserted into a title of one or more exhibits one or more rooms and or one or more ShowObjects.

User interface also displays a create virtual venue screen which displays the option to create a virtual venue such as a memorial or a museum using the virtual venue application. More specifically in the illustrated embodiment of the user can click on either create memorial or create museum . In certain embodiments when a user clicks on either create memorial or create museum and the user has not already created an account with the virtual venue application the virtual venue application can require the user to create an account before proceeding with the creation of the museum or memorial. In other alternate embodiments create virtual venue screen can display options for creating other types of virtual venues.

User interface also displays a display virtual venue screen which displays one or more virtual venues that have already been created. A user can select one of the virtual venues displayed within virtual venue screen which can cause the virtual venue application to display the selected virtual venue. In certain embodiments some virtual venues can have a request membership button displayed along with the virtual venue. This is only available if there are some parts of the virtual venue that do not have public access and a specific venue s operator has made these areas available to members and the operator has allowed users to request membership.

In certain embodiments every virtual venue has a unique uniform resource locator URL . Each URL can be utilized by a user to immediately advance to an initial room of the virtual venue where an initial room can be a two or three dimensional rendition of a virtual venue common area and can include one or more exhibit entry points also identified as a virtual venue atrium . A virtual venue atrium is further described in greater detail in relation to . An example URL for a venue is as follows 

According to these embodiments each exhibit and room also have a unique URL. An example URL for an exhibit is as follows 

When a virtual venue URL is submitted to the virtual venue application by a user the user s credentials can be checked before a web page or screen associated with the URL is displayed to the user. In certain embodiments if the virtual venue has at least one public area then the web page can be displayed to the user without a credentials check. If the virtual venue does not have any public areas then the user s credentials will be checked. If the user is already logged in to the virtual venue application the credentials are checked automatically. If the user is not logged in to the virtual venue application then a logic screen is presented intercepting the intended web page. Once the user is logged in successfully the destination web page can be displayed. In situations where a user attempts to access a virtual venue that the user does not have a membership for an error message can be displayed to the user indicating to the user that the user is not a member of the virtual venue. The error message can include a request membership button that allows a user to request membership to the virtual venue when clicked. The credentials check can also be performed when a user submits a exhibit URL or room URL as well.

According to an embodiment when a user enters a virtual venue of the virtual venue application such as a museum or memorial the virtual venue application displays a two or three dimensional virtual environment where the user is represented by a virtual avatar that can move around the virtual environment. For any initial virtual venue entry the virtual venue application can display a virtual venue map station. By clicking on a virtual venue map station the virtual venue application can display a virtual venue navigator which not only depicts the layout of the entire virtual venue but also displays each exhibit or room of the virtual venue and allows a user to immediately navigate to that exhibit or room. A virtual venue map station is further described in greater detail in relation to . In certain embodiments the virtual venue application can restrict access to one or more rooms of the virtual venue based on one or more permissions. Such permissions can include one or more roles associated with a user and a date and or time. In certain embodiments each room can include a distinct set of access restrictions.

According to the embodiment a virtual avatar that represents a user of the virtual venue application includes a suite of functionality. Such functionality includes the appearance of the virtual avatar which is customizable by the user. The avatar may be invisible to other users or appear with multiple possible attributes. For example a user can customize a face body size legs hair hands and race of the virtual avatar. The user can also customize clothing of the virtual avatar. For example if a virtual venue has a Renaissance Era theme the user can customize the clothing of the virtual avatar with clothing that is appropriate for the Renaissance Era. A virtual avatar can include one or more badges on their clothes to denote their contributor roles to the virtual venue. Badges may also be awarded for various activities such as visit count visit of specific virtual venue type count sharing content and sharing comments . Virtual avatars can also present badges on their closes to denote contributor roles. Examples of badges are further described below in greater detail. The virtual avatar functionality also includes interaction with another virtual avatar that represents another user of the virtual venue application. By clicking on another virtual avatar a user can communicate with the virtual avatar or follow the virtual avatar as it moves around the virtual venue. Such communications can include a virtual venue public communication an exhibit only public communication a room only public communication and a private communication. A virtual avatar can be a non person avatar which can act as a how to guide an information search guide a full virtual venue tour guide an exhibit tour guide a specialized tour guide and a virtual venue store clerk. A how to guide is a non person avatar that can have the ability to answer questions of one or more users. An information search guide is a non person avatar that can have the ability to answer questions of one or more users or perform a search of the virtual venue based on a user s inquiry. A full venue tour guide is a non person avatar that can have the ability to provide a tour through the entire virtual venue i.e. all exhibits . An exhibit tour guide is a non person avatar that can have the ability to provide a tour through one or more exhibits of the virtual venue. A specialized tour guide is a non person avatar that can have the ability to provide a tour through one or more exhibits associated with one or more themes. A venue store clerk is a non person avatar that can have the ability to answer questions of one or more users or facilitate one or more sales transactions. Virtual avatar functionality also includes ability to capture a picture within the virtual venue and create a virtual picture album. Virtual avatar functionality also includes ability to capture video within the virtual venue and create a virtual video album. Virtual albums are described below in greater detail. Virtual avatar functionality also includes ability to share captured pictures and videos with other virtual avatars. Other virtual avatar functionality includes downloading content performing transactions including sales transactions and posting content on social media such as Facebook . Furthermore the virtual venue application can maintain a record of all activities performed by one or more virtual avatars. Such activities can include visiting virtual venues visiting exhibits of virtual venues visiting rooms of exhibits of virtual venues interacting with ShowObjects interacting with other virtual avatars downloading content and conducting financial transactions.

In certain embodiments awards such as badges and titles can be awarded to one or more users of the virtual venue application. Awards can be divided into two categories user awards and venue awards. In the user awards category badges can include a revolving door badge a sharer badge an object sharer badge a buff badge a dedication badge a senior version of the aforementioned badges and a master version of the aforementioned badges. A revolving door badge is a badge that can be awarded to a user for visiting a virtual venue a specific number of times in a specific time period. A sharer badge is a badge that can be awarded to a user for contributing a specific number of text items to a virtual venue. An object sharer badge is a badge that can be awarded to a user for contributing a specific number of ShowObjects to a virtual venue. A buff badge is a badge that can be awarded to a user that is a member of a specific number or more than a specific number of a specific virtual venue type. A dedication badge is a badge that can be awarded to a user for spending a specific duration or more than a specific duration within a virtual venue. A senior version of the aforementioned badge is any aforementioned badge that can be awarded to a user for achieving double the requirement of the aforementioned badge. A master version of the aforementioned badge is any aforementioned badge that can be awarded to a user for achieving quadruple the requirement of the aforementioned badge.

Also in the user awards category titles can be obtained per venue theme per venue or overall and can include a most venues title a most dedicated title and a most visits title. A most venues title is a title that can be awarded to a user that is a member of a largest number of virtual venues. A most dedicated title is a title that can be awarded to a user that has spent the most time in a virtual venue. A most visits title is a title that can be awarded to a user that has visited a virtual venue a highest number of times. Titles can be gained but then lost if another user achieves a better score associated with what the title represents.

In the venue awards category badges can include a 100 visitors badge a 100 returning visitors badge a senior badge for the aforementioned badges a master badge for the aforementioned badges and an elite badge for the aforementioned badges. A 100 visitors badge is a badge that can be awarded to a virtual venue for having a hundred or more visitors. A 100 returning visitors badge is a badge that can be awarded to a virtual venue for having a hundred or more returning visitors. A senior badge is any aforementioned badge that can be awarded to a user for achieving double the requirement of the aforementioned badge. A master badge is any aforementioned badge that can be awarded to a user for achieving quadruple the requirement of the aforementioned badge. An elite badge is any aforementioned badge that can be awarded to a user for achieving eight times the requirement of the aforementioned badge.

Also in the virtual awards category titles can be obtained per venue theme per venue or overall and can include a most visits title and a most liked title. A most visits title is a title that can be awarded to a virtual venue that has received a highest number of visits. A most likes title is a title that can be awarded to a virtual venue that received a highest number of likes where a like can be received via a social network website or application such as FaceBook .

According to an embodiment a virtual album can be associated with each virtual avatar where the virtual album collects one or more pictures and videos collected from a virtual still camera and virtual video camera respectively where the virtual still camera and the virtual video camera are each associated with the virtual avatar. As part of collecting the one or more pictures and videos the following attributes can be added to each picture or video an automatic date and or time stamp an automatic link for a venue exhibit room coordinate in a room and spherical coordinate for direction of camera a size a time length if video and a request for title. Each virtual album can also be identified as a scrap album. Also a user can employ an album manager to copy and paste album pictures and videos into specific virtual albums that can be separately created and edited.

According to an embodiment a virtual environment displayed by a virtual venue application can include one or more buttons. A button can be a ShowObject or can be a separate object that is attached to a ShowObject. A button can perform a specified functionality defined by the virtual venue application. A button can be selected by a user associated with a room designer role and assigned to a ShowObject. Examples of buttons include a link an Add Photo or Video button an Add Sculpture button an Add Article button an Add Application button an Add Link button and an animator. A link can be used to download documents or files. A link can also be used to open a second window or to replace the current window. A special type of link is a transport link which is associated with transporter functionality provided by the virtual venue application for transporting a virtual avatar to a different location within the virtual venue or to a location within another virtual venue. The transport link can be displayed within the virtual environment as an icon of a transporter and can be clicked on by a user to transport the virtual avatar associated with the user. Virtual avatar transport functionality is described below in greater detail. An Add Photo or Video button can be used to add a picture or a video which is contained within a frame or other container displayed within the virtual environment to a virtual album. An Add Sculpture button can be used to add a three dimensional model to a virtual album. An Add Article button can be used to download a document such as a Portable Document Format PDF into a virtual notebook where virtual notebooks are described in greater detail below. An Add Application button can be used to download a scripted interactive application such as a Flash application into a virtual notebook where virtual notebooks are described below in greater detail. An Add Link button can be used to download a web link into a virtual notebook where virtual notebooks are described in greater detail below. An animator can be used to cause an associated ShowObject to animate and or change its appearance and or play audio.

According to an embodiment a virtual notebook can be associated with a virtual avatar where a virtual notebook can collect one or more objects. Thus a virtual notebook can be a more sophisticated collection tool as compared to a virtual album. A virtual notebook can collect and store any type of object including pictures videos and three dimensional models . A virtual notebook can be fully index able and searchable by a keyword or theme. A virtual notebook can act as a research tool for education study or investigation. A user can employ a notebook manager to create cut past and edit one or more virtual notebooks.

According to an embodiment as previously described a virtual avatar can be transported from a first location of a first virtual venue of a first virtual venue application to a second location of a second virtual venue of a second virtual venue application. In this embodiment information representing the virtual avatar such as an appearance of the virtual avatar the first location i.e. a position of the virtual avatar relative to the first virtual venue and a user associated with the virtual avatar is stored by the first virtual venue application and transmitted to the second virtual venue application. The second virtual venue application can then assign a position to the virtual avatar relative to the second virtual venue i.e. the second location . From a perspective of the user associated with the virtual venue the first location of the first virtual venue of the first virtual venue application is first displayed within a user interface before the transportation. After the second transportation the second location of the second virtual venue of the second virtual venue application is displayed within the user interface. In an alternate embodiment a virtual avatar can be transported from the first location of the first virtual venue of the first virtual application to a second location of a second virtual venue of the first virtual venue application where the first and second locations are within the same virtual venue application . In this embodiment the first venue application stores the information representing the virtual avatar and also assigns a position to the virtual avatar relative to the second virtual venue.

In certain embodiments one or more objects that are associated with the virtual avatar can be transported along with the virtual avatar. Such objects can include virtual pictures virtual videos two dimensional or three dimensional virtual sculptures virtual documents virtual albums virtual notebooks and virtual carriers. Pictures videos sculptures documents albums and notebooks have been described. A virtual carrier is a virtual container that can be associated with a virtual avatar and that can contain one or more ShowObjects. In certain embodiments the virtual carrier can be a virtual purse a virtual knapsack a virtual bag or some other kind of virtual container. In some embodiments the virtual carrier has a virtual appearance of a virtual purse a virtual knapsack a virtual bag or some other kind of virtual container. In certain embodiments a developer can develop ShowObjects that include executable code for custom applications that can be stored within a virtual carrier. In certain embodiments a virtual carrier can contain a virtual chatphone where a virtual chatphone can provide functionality for initiating a chat session with a user of a chat protocol such as Yahoo Messenger Microsoft Network MSN Messenger America Online . In certain embodiments a virtual carrier can contain a virtual ticket book where the virtual ticket book can provide functionality for displaying within a user interface one or more tickets associated with the virtual avatar. In some of these embodiments email message can be sent to a user of the virtual venue application where the email message includes a virtual ticket associated with the virtual venue. The virtual ticket can be electronically signed and authenticated to provide access to the virtual venue to the user where the virtual ticket can include an expiration date. In certain embodiments a virtual carrier can contain a virtual album where a virtual album can include one or more pictures videos or sculptures. In certain embodiments a virtual carrier can contain a virtual notebook where a virtual notebook can includes one or more pictures videos sculptures documents applications or other files. In certain embodiments a virtual carrier can contain a virtual address book where the virtual address book can include one or more contacts within the virtual venue application. In some embodiments the virtual address book can provide functionality for sending email messages to one or more contacts using an email program such as Google s Gmail or Yahoo Mail . In certain embodiments at least one object of the one or more includes executable code or an executable script. In these embodiments one or more object events associated with the at least one object can be transported. Furthermore in these embodiments one or more buttons associated with the at least one object can also be transported. Finally the executable code or the executable script can be executed within the virtual venue application that the virtual avatar is transporting to. In certain embodiments virtual avatar history that is associated with the virtual avatar can be transported along with the virtual avatar. As previously described virtual avatar history can include all activities performed by the virtual avatar. Such activities can include visiting virtual venues visiting exhibits of virtual venues visiting rooms of exhibits of virtual venues interacting with ShowObjects interacting with other virtual avatars downloading content and conducting financial transactions.

In certain embodiments one or more design choices such as one or more palettes used in designing one or more rooms of a first virtual venue can be transported along with the virtual avatar. This can facilitate the creation of rooms within a second virtual venue where the rooms of the second virtual venue have a similar look and feel to the rooms of the first virtual venue. Also in certain embodiments one or more preferences can be transported along with the virtual avatar. For example these preferences can include browsing preferences of a user associated with the virtual avatar and the browsing preferences can be stored within a first virtual venue application that provides the first virtual venue. As another example these preferences can include display preferences virtual avatar appearance preferences or text preferences. These preferences can also include other preferences that can be associated with the virtual avatar and transported along with the virtual avatar. In certain embodiments a destination virtual venue can interpret the one or more preferences and present aspects of the virtual venue based on the one or more preferences.

In certain embodiments before a virtual avatar is transported from a first location of a first virtual venue of a first virtual venue application to a second location of a second virtual venue of a second virtual venue application one or more rules associated with transportation of a virtual avatar can be checked. A rule associated with transportation of a virtual avatar can include one or more conditions based on one or more attributes of a virtual venue application where the conditions can be applied to the attributes at the time of the attempted transportation. Attributes of a virtual venue application can include for example a user associated with the virtual avatar one or more roles associated with the user a position of the virtual avatar a date or time or any other attribute of a virtual venue application. A rule associated with transportation of a virtual avatar can be stored within a virtual venue application and can be automatically applied when a virtual avatar is about to transport from a first location to a second location. In certain embodiments each rule is associated with a specific virtual venue of a virtual venue application. In other embodiments each rule is a global rule associated with the entire virtual venue application. In yet other embodiments some rules can be associated with a specific virtual venue and other rules are global rules associated with the entire venue application. In some embodiments each rule is applied by a virtual venue or virtual venue application that the virtual avatar is transporting from. In other embodiments each rule is applied by a virtual venue or virtual venue application that the virtual avatar is transporting to. In certain embodiments the transportation of the virtual avatar from the first location to the second location can be prevented where the transportation does not satisfy any of the stored rules. In certain embodiments rules that are unsatisfied and that prevent transportation of the virtual avatar can cause the destination virtual venue application or specific virtual venue to display a screen within a user interface where the screen can require a user to perform an action to allow the transportation of the virtual avatar. For example a user can enter payment information within the displayed screen where upon receiving the payment information the destination virtual venue application or specific virtual venue allows the transportation of the virtual avatar to be achieved.

In certain embodiments before a virtual avatar is transported from a first location of a first virtual venue of a first virtual venue application to a second location of a second virtual venue of a second virtual venue application one or more preferences associated with the virtual avatar can be checked. If one or more aspects of the second virtual venue do not comply with one or more preferences associated with the virtual avatar the transportation of the virtual avatar from the first location to the second location can be prevented. In other embodiments preferences that conflict with aspects of the second virtual venue and that prevent transportation of the virtual avatar can cause the destination virtual venue application or specific virtual venue to display a screen within a user interface where the screen can require a user to perform an action to allow the transportation of the virtual avatar. For example a user can indicate an override by clicking Yes on a dialog box and upon receiving the indicated override the destination virtual venue application or specific virtual venue allows the transportation of the virtual avatar to be achieved.

According to an embodiment a virtual venue application can provide a virtual tour of one or more virtual venues where the virtual tour includes one or more virtual avatars that can act as tour guides. The virtual tour is an organized pre defined presentation of one or more exhibits of a virtual venue where the virtual tour can include a presentation of one or more rooms of each exhibit and one or more ShowObjects of each room. A virtual tour can be a very important feature of a virtual venue that can be created by virtual venue application as the organized presentation can hold a user s attention as the virtual tour maintains a consistent theme throughout the virtual tour as opposed to users moving around the virtual venue in a disorganized manner. In certain embodiments one or more badges can be awarded to users for creating virtual tours and attending virtual tours. The virtual tour can also provide a summary of the virtual venue in order to assist users in determining which exhibits and rooms they are interested in perusing while visiting.

According to the embodiment the virtual venue application provides a tour manager where a user associated with a curator role i.e. curator user can utilize the tour manager within the virtual venue that they have this role for. As previously discussed the roles of operator finance manager curator and room designer are per virtual venue and a user can be in each role multiple times once for each venue that a user associated with an operator role assigns them. The curator user can use the tour manager to create a guide avatar also identified as a virtual avatar tour guide or avatar tour guide where a guide avatar is a virtual avatar that serves as a tour guide for the virtual tour. After the curator user has created the guide avatar the curator user can walk through the virtual venue as the guide avatar clicking on one or more ShowObjects in sequence. The virtual venue application can record the curator user s movements throughout the virtual venue. The virtual venue application can then use the recorded movements as the basis for the guide avatar s movements for the virtual tour. The curator user can also record one or more audio clips at any time and title the audio clips. The virtual venue application can play the audio clips during the virtual tour at one or more pre defined times. The curator user can also associate text along with the one or more audio clips if desired to assist visitors of the virtual venue who cannot hear or who are watching the virtual tour in a noisy environment. The curator user can also set up a question list per exhibit as well as per room. These questions can be perused via text or via audio if provided. The virtual venue application can then generate a virtual tour associated with the guide avatar. In certain embodiments during tour execution a guide avatar s movements can be automatically adjusted to appear more natural and smooth as it walks around and points to objects. For example the guide avatar can automatically make movements with at least one of its body its face its hands or its fingers. These movements can appear natural and smooth to visitors. In certain embodiments a guide avatar can look at visitors in a natural way in real time for example by making eye contact as the guide avatar knows the geometric position of all avatars and their eye positions in real time when giving the tour. According to certain embodiments the virtual venue application can include one or more libraries where the one or more libraries can each include one or more motions that can be inserted into the virtual tour where the guide avatar can perform the one or more motions. For example the virtual venue application can include a hand motion library that includes one or more hand motions. The one or more hand motions can be inserted into the virtual tour where the guide avatar can perform one or more of the one or more hand motions. In another example the virtual venue application can include a leg and foot motion library that includes one or more leg and foot motions. The one or more leg and foot motions can be inserted into the virtual tour where the guide avatar can perform one or more of the one or more leg and foot motions. In yet another example the virtual venue application can include a facial expression library that includes one or more facial expressions. The one or more facial expressions can be inserted into the virtual tour where the guide avatar can perform one or more of the one or more facial expressions. In certain embodiments a virtual tour can include one or more StandSpots that are denoted by the curator user when the curator user creates the tour. A StandSpot is a location in a room along a virtual tour that includes a position and a gaze direction unit vector. Thus a visitor can cause his her avatar to stand at the StandSpot and the visitor can be provided a view of a significant object or display. According to certain embodiments the virtual tour can also include one or more locations where the guide avatar stops to either talk or point out an object. Once the guide avatar has finished talking or pointing out the object the virtual tour resumes. In certain embodiments a visitor can search for one of these locations and can skip a portion of the virtual tour causing the virtual tour to either start or resume at the searched location.

According to the embodiment a virtual tour can start at a tour booth area of a virtual venue atrium. A user that initiates a virtual tour is known as a tour organizer. The tour organizer can invite one or more visitors via their avatars to a virtual tour but can also dismiss them before and during the virtual tour. A virtual tour does not start until one or more visitors join the virtual tour. During the virtual tour the virtual venue application can display a real time chat window where people can communicate using text chat. Any visitor on the virtual tour can pause the virtual tour. When this occurs the guide avatar can indicate that the virtual tour is paused such as generating a verbal indication. When the virtual tour paused the guide avatar is available to answer one or more of the pre defined questions. Questions that are not prepared may still be asked but can be submitted to the virtual venue application where the virtual venue application causes one or more email messages to be generated where the one or more email messages include the questions. The one or more email messages can be sent to one or more managers of the virtual venue i.e. members of the virtual venue that are associated with the operator finance manager curator or room design roles . The answer s can be available in a per virtual venue question and answer repository that can grow as such questions and answers occur. In one embodiment a question and answer repository can include a set of one or more questions that is created and a set of one or more answers that is created where each question is associated with an answer. The set of questions can be displayed to a user where the user can select a question from the set of questions and ask the question. According to the embodiment if a user asks a question that is not within the set of one or more questions an indication can be displayed to the user that an answer to the received question will be emailed to the user. That question can then be added to the set of questions within the question and answer repository and an associated answer can also be added to the set of answers within the question and answer repository. In one embodiment the virtual venue application can store a number of times that each question of the set of questions is asked by a user. The virtual venue application can also store a number of times that each question of the set of questions is asked by a user per room of the virtual venue. The virtual venue application can also rank each question of the set of questions based on the number of times that each question of the set of questions is asked. In one embodiment each question of the set of questions can be associated with a room of the virtual venue. In this embodiment when a question is received from a user an indication can be displayed that the question will be answered later within the tour e.g. when the guide avatar moves into the room that is associated with the question . According to the embodiment one or more visitors can follow the guide avatar to each room of the virtual tour. If one or more visitors do not follow the guide avatar to a room they can be forced into the room within a time threshold. A virtual tour can be fast forwarded and reversed. The guide avatar can verbally indicate where StandSpots are and one or more visitors can ask for the location of the StandSpots.

The Groups section of access frame allows a user associated with the operator role to add and delete members of the virtual venue by clicking on an edit button next to a group. Additionally a checkbox is present next to each group denoting whether or not the members of the group are each allowed to add an affinity room or not. An affinity room is a private room added and designed by a user for themselves but which they can share with others if they want to invite them. In effect the affinity room is either private to a single individual or privately shared with a few individuals.

The Room Design Access section of access frame allows a user associated with the operator role to control which users that are associated with the room designer role have privileges to edit a design of a room. According to the embodiment when a person is assigned to an exhibit they also have access to the individual rooms belonging to that exhibit.

Membership management frame can also display one or more roles that can be associated with each member. Also membership management frame can allow a user to enable or disable a member. In certain embodiments a show only membership requests checkbox not shown is only displayed if the user has turned on the ability for the virtual venue to accept requests. If this checkbox is selected then an accept all button not shown appears. When the list of membership requests is displayed there are two buttons to the left of each request an accept button and a reject button not shown . Once the accept button is clicked the request becomes a membership. Whichever is selected a response with the acceptance or rejection is sent as a notification via an email message to the original requester.

In certain embodiments the virtual venue application provides integration with one or more social network or email providers such as Facebook Gmail Google Plus and Yahoo . By clicking on one of social network buttons a user can enter credentials for accessing a social network or email provider. The virtual venue application can then display a list not shown of the user s contacts for the social network or email provider and a checkbox next to each contact. At the bottom of the list is an invite all button also not shown . By clicking the button the virtual venue application can automatically import the selected contacts into the virtual venue application.

According to the embodiment a user associated with a curator role can click on new button to add a new room to exhibit map layout designer screen . New rooms can begin as rectangles. Also according to the embodiment a user associated with a curator role can click on new button which creates a tunneled room. A tunneled room is similar to a normal room but the tunneled room can also present a browser of all other virtual venues that a user is associated with a curator role for and which allows users to share the tunneled room with other virtual venues. Thus a tunneled room can be conveniently shared between multiple virtual venues. To add more walls to the room a user can click on pencil button and the cursor will change to a pencil. The user can then click the pencil on any wall to split the wall in the middle forming a new vertex. Furthermore left clicking can add a new vertex while right clicking can remove a nearest vertex. While exhibit map layout designer screen allows for two dimensional room floors with vertical walls in alternate embodiments exhibit map layout designer screen can also import three dimensional shaped rooms. For example exhibit map layout designer screen can use a tool such as Google Sketchup to import three dimensional shaped rooms. A user can also edit rooms between exhibits using cut button copy button and paste button . More specifically a user can cut or copy a room from another exhibit and paste the room into exhibit map layout designer screen using cut button copy button and paste button . The selection markers on room vertices may also individually be positioned to change a wall shape and size of a room. This determines the final room dimensions using a flat floor face and a flat ceiling face of the same shape and all vertical walls. Additionally exhibit map layout designer screen can include a public button for each room such as public button that toggles between setting the room of the virtual venue as public and not public.

According to the embodiment an exhibit map displayed within exhibit map layout designer screen can optionally include two special exhibit types store and admission center . While store and admission center are not technically exhibits they can be played on a same level as one or more exhibits. According to certain embodiments one or more buttons can be used to place a store or an admission center within an exhibit map and said buttons can be displayed once a store or an admission center is placed within the exhibit map. Store can include one or more rooms where each room can allow one or more ShowObjects to have price tag buttons which allow the ShowObjects to be purchased. Admission center is an area where users can first arrive at sign in and or pick up a short guide. Depending on the virtual venue admission center can set admission prices. For groups of users wishing to go into the virtual venue together a join operation can be provided to wait for all users in the group to arrive and join. This can also enable a group admission price if a user associated with a finance manager role has provided group pricing.

According to the embodiment wall design screen also displays asterisks where asterisks are the visuals for ShowSpots. As previously described ShowSpots are object mounts that can host a display object to be displayed within the virtual room. Wall design screen displays a front view of a room such as room . Asterisks are typically only displayed within wall design screen and are typically not displayed to users as they navigate the virtual room. In the illustrated embodiment of the room designer has assigned the ShowSpots on the left with Firefly ShowObjects and the branched areas with Leaf ShowObjects. A leaf can represent a memory that a user enters into the virtual venue application and a firefly can represents a wish prayer or other emotive content that a user enters into the virtual venue application. In certain embodiments a user can select the emotive content from a list of text or a larger body of text rather than enter the emotive content. These are two examples of ShowObjects that can be provided in a ShowObject library according to the embodiment. However in alternate embodiments a scriptable framework can be provided to users for building custom ShowObjects. A ShowObject can be selected with a variety of shapes animations and sounds used to render feelings emotions or other subjective impulses in multiple dimensions.

According to certain embodiments ShowObject case can also include special ShowObjects. For example in the illustrated embodiment ShowObject case includes containers . A container can be placed anywhere in a room and its picture model can be changed. In certain embodiments the container can direct the user to a well known import or revered book stored in the virtual venue i.e. special book . To identify the book in a room the presentation and title can change. For example special book can be a Torah a Bible a Koran or other special type of book.

According to certain embodiments ShowObjects are the primary objects in a user s world of objects. ShowObjects are objects that present or show something of interest in an exhibit room. ShowObjects can be placed on ShowSpots which are only positioned on containers such as frames cases and tables. ShowObjects and containers can be Google Sketchup three dimensional models. However the virtual venue application provides the ability to add buttons to ShowObjects in order to provide associated actions. Buttons may perform an action which is totally independent of the ShowObject model or dependent where it causes manipulation of the ShowObject model.

According to the illustrated embodiment ShowObject can include a price tag button . Clicking or touching price tag button can bring up a dialog allowing the user to confirm a purchase of ShowObject and to place ShowObject into a shopping cart. In certain embodiments price tag buttons such as price tag button can only be associated with ShowObjects that are in a room that is declared a store. In certain embodiments users may place ShowObjects on ShowSpots provided by a user associated with a room designer role but users cannot add buttons. Buttons can be added to a ShowObject by users associated with a curator role or a room designer role but only if independent. Dependent buttons can require scripts to perform manipulations. In certain embodiments the scripting language for the scripts is JavaScript.

According to certain embodiments ShowObjects can be created to be unique or limited. When a ShowObject author creates a ShowObject the ShowObject author can set a maximum quantity for its copies. In certain embodiments the ShowObject author sets the maximum quantity for its copies by assigning a unique identifier to the ShowObject where the unique identifier defines the maximum quantity for its copies. In certain embodiments the Show Object author can assign the copies to specific users. According to certain embodiments ShowObjects can be electronically signed to authenticate the ShowObject Author. In certain embodiments there can be tiers of authenticity. For example a first tier can require a mechanism to provide that the author is a specific real person using for example a driver s license or other real word identification. In this example a second tier can simply authenticate that a specific user electronically signed the ShowObject. According to certain embodiments a user can electronically engrave one or more ShowObjects. In these embodiments a person s signature can be uploaded and then electronically engraved into a specific position in the ShowObject selected. Electronic signing limited counts and electronically engraving can introduce the concept of rarity and desire in a virtual venue which can create value. Furthermore in examples of virtual art exhibits art such as pictures and sculptures can be authenticated.

In certain embodiments virtual venues can be expected to be so popular that containers may comprise sophisticated declarations to automatically scale the number of ShowObjects that are displayed within a virtual venue for a high cardinality of venue visitors i.e. for when a large number of venue visitors wish to display ShowObjects within the virtual venue . Thus the automatic scaling can be based on a number of ShowObjects that are displayed within a container. For example multiple ShowObjects may reside in the same location and a number can be present in a middle of an asterisk such as asterisk of to denote the number of ShowObjects not shown in . At venue runtime the distinct ShowObjects can cycle through being displayed every T seconds where T is a value that can be configured by the virtual venue application. Where N is a number of ShowObjects being displayed within the container if the value of N becomes a maximum number of ShowObjects that can be displayed within the container the maximum number can be increased and the value of N can be automatically scaled up. In an alternate scaling ShowObject embodiment a container can be automatically replicated in a certain direction when the container instance is full of ShowObjects. For example a virtual tree with ShowObjects such as the virtual tree illustrated in could replicate and create a plurality of trees such as an orchard not shown in . Other scaling embodiments can provide for an increased density of displayed ShowObjects up to a specific maximum based on one or more rules stored within the virtual venue application.

At a virtual venue is generated that includes a two or three dimensional spatial representation of one or more objects based on an object model. The object model can include one or more virtual exhibits. Each virtual exhibit can include one or more virtual rooms. Each virtual room can include one or more faces. Each face can include zero or more display containers. Each display container can include zero or more object mounts. Each object mount can host a display object that is a two or three dimensional virtual representation of an object. In certain embodiments the virtual venue includes an affinity room where the affinity room is privately added to the virtual venue and where the affinity room is accessible only to a member that created the affinity room and a list of other members the member has invited. In certain embodiments access to the one or more virtual rooms is restricted based on one or more per specific exhibit or per specific room permissions. In certain embodiments the display object represents or stores emotive text that a user enters or selects from a list of text or a larger body of text.

In certain embodiments each face of the one or more faces is of a face type that defines how the one or more display containers are displayed. Examples of face types include a wall a floor and a ceiling. According to these embodiments each face includes one or more graphical properties. Examples of graphical properties include a texture property a color property and a transparency property.

According to certain embodiments each display container of the one or more display containers is a display type that defines how the one or more object mounts are deployed. Examples of display types include a frame a table a case and a hook. In certain embodiments each object mount includes a position declaration. Examples of position declarations include an absolute position declaration a rule based position declaration and a dynamic position declaration. Also according to the certain embodiments at least one display object of the virtual venue includes an animator object where the animator object manipulates one or more graphical properties of the at least one display object.

In certain embodiments the virtual venue is generated based on a virtual venue template. The virtual venue template includes a virtual venue that is partially created. The virtual venue also includes one or more variables where each variable controls a specific attribute of the virtual venue.

At at least one virtual room of the virtual venue is displayed within a graphical user interface. The display of the at least one virtual room produces a two or three dimensional virtual environment. Each display object of each object mount of each container is also displayed within the graphical user interface. In certain embodiments at least one display object displays an advertisement.

At a virtual avatar that represents a user of a virtual venue application is generated. At least one virtual room of the virtual venue is displayed based on a position of the virtual avatar within the virtual venue. Furthermore the display of the at least one virtual room of the virtual room is updated based on movement of the virtual avatar. In certain embodiments the virtual avatar is visible with selectable attributes. In alternate embodiments the virtual avatar is invisible to all except the user employing the virtual avatar.

At information is received from the user of the virtual venue application. At the information is stored within the virtual venue as in or on at least one display object. At the at least one display object is displayed within at least one virtual room of the virtual venue.

In certain embodiments the virtual venue is a first virtual venue and a second virtual venue is also generated based on the object model. In these embodiments the first virtual venue and the second virtual venue share at least one exhibit or room and the shared at least one exhibit or room is shared in space and time between the first virtual venue and the second virtual venue. Thus a tunnel is displayed within the first virtual venue. When the virtual avatar moves towards the tunnel and the user indicates that the user desires to move to the second virtual venue the display of the first virtual venue is replaced with the display of the second virtual venue.

In certain embodiments a portal can also be displayed within the graphical user interface. The portal displays one or more selectable virtual venues. Each virtual venue of the one or more selectable virtual venues represents a virtual venue to enter. In certain embodiments the aforementioned virtual venue is one of the one or more selectable virtual venues. In other embodiments a virtual venue map is also displayed where the virtual venue map is integrated with a hierarchical navigation tree of the virtual venue the one or more virtual exhibits and the one or more virtual rooms where the virtual venue map provides an ability to transport to a selected location. In yet other embodiments an operations view of the virtual venue is displayed. The operations view can include operation information of the virtual venue. Examples of operation information include access information membership information visitor history information and advertising information. In certain embodiments a user associated with a virtual avatar can transport from one location of a virtual venue to another location of the virtual venue or from one virtual venue to another virtual venue based on touching content associated with one or more displays within the virtual venue.

In certain embodiments one or more roles can be assigned to a user of the virtual venue application who is a member of the virtual venue. The one or more roles can be selected from a list of roles comprising a member role an operator role a finance manager role a curator role or a designer role.

In certain embodiments one or more object mounts can be auctioned. In other embodiments an advertisement can be displayed based on an amount of traffic associated with the virtual venue. In other embodiments an email message can be sent to a user of the virtual venue application where the email message includes a virtual ticket associated with the virtual venue. The virtual ticket can be electronically signed and the virtual ticket can be authenticated to provide access to the virtual venue to the user where the virtual ticket includes an expiration date. In certain embodiments the virtual avatar can store at least one of a number of virtual venues visited a number of items purchased or credit card information associated with the user.

In certain embodiments the virtual venue further includes a timeline that is placed in within a virtual room or made accessible from a map navigator and that allows members of the virtual venue to upload and share content on the timeline. In some of these embodiments content can be automatically added to the timeline based on one or more dates and times associated with one or more display objects located with the one or more virtual rooms. In other embodiments content can be automatically deployed and organized in the virtual venue from an external web account source that includes at least one of one or more pictures one or more videos one or more documents and one or more two dimensional or three dimensional models. In certain embodiments a number of display objects that are placed on a displayer container can be automatically scaled up when a number of object mounts associated with the display container include a maximum number of display objects. In other embodiments a display container with empty object mounts can be automatically duplicated when a number of object mounts associated with another display container include a maximum number of display objects.

In certain embodiments one or more objects that are associated with the virtual avatar can also be transported along with the virtual avatar from the first location to the second location. In these embodiments examples of the type of objects that can be associated with the virtual avatar and transported along with the virtual avatar can include virtual pictures virtual videos virtual two dimensional or three dimensional sculptures virtual documents virtual albums where each virtual album can contain one or more virtual pictures virtual videos or virtual two dimensional or three dimensional sculptures virtual notebooks where each virtual notebook can be a virtual album that includes one or more virtual documents or virtual carriers where each virtual carrier contains one or more objects albums or notebooks . In certain embodiments there can be one or more rules associated with transportation of the virtual avatar and these rules can be checked before transportation of the virtual avatar occurs. In some embodiments the checking can be performed by the first virtual venue application. In other embodiments the checking can be performed by the second virtual venue application. In these embodiments the second virtual venue application can prevent the transportation of the virtual avatar when the transportation does not satisfy any of the one or more rules. In some embodiments the checking can be performed by the first virtual venue. In other embodiments the checking can be performed by the second virtual venue. In these embodiments the second virtual venue can prevent the transportation of the virtual avatar when the transportation does not satisfy any of the one or more rules. In certain embodiments at least one object of the one or more objects can include executable code an executable script or a combination therein. In these embodiments one or more object events associated with the at least one object can be transported as well. Also in these embodiments one or more buttons associated with the at least one object can be transported as well. Furthermore the executable code or the executable script can be executed by the second virtual venue application. In other embodiments virtual avatar history that is associated with the virtual avatar can also be transported along with the virtual avatar from the first location to the second location. In these embodiments examples of virtual avatar history can include one or more visited locations one or more interactions with other virtual avatars or one or more financial transactions. In certain embodiments one or more preferences that are associated with the virtual avatar can also be transported along with the virtual avatar.

Object types can be implemented based on a database architecture of PersistentStore . For example in one embodiment PersistentStore can be a relational database where each object and its supporting stored objects can be composed of one or more relational tables. In another embodiment PersistentStore can be a NoSQL database where PersistentStore can store the object in alternate storage structures such as key value structures or similar highly scalable but simple storage structures. One skilled in the art of persistent storage in particular highly scalable and elastic persistent storage would readily appreciate how to implement storing objects and their supporting objects using the storage subsystems described above and other similar storage subsystems.

As previously described PersistentStore can represent a persistent storage of the virtual venue application which stores objects of one or more object types. These stored objects can provide the structural objects that are used to implement the functionality of the virtual venue application previously described. Subsystems that employ these objects are now described in greater detail.

Each graphical user interface subsystem can provide one or more screens to support the functionality provided by the graphical user interface subsystem. For example in one embodiment user manager can provide a guest screen as well as a user home screen once a user successfully logs into the virtual venue application. The screens of user manager can primarily interact with user objects and venue objects of PersistentStore .

In one embodiment operations manager can provide one or more screens for managing a specific virtual venue. The one or more screens can include screens for public access to the virtual venue s exhibits and rooms private access to the virtual venue s exhibits and rooms user groups within the virtual venue costs and revenue virtual venue statistics and advertising within the virtual venue. Access to these screens can be granted to users associated with an operating role. In certain embodiments access to the finance screen is only granted to a user associated with the finance manager role. The one or more screens of operations manager can interact with venue objects and user objects of PersistentStore and can also present a history or audit of what has occurred in the virtual venue using audit trail objects of PersistentStore . Operations manager can also view statistics computed based on a virtual venue s history which can be computed from an audit trail subsystem not shown and stored in or more statistics trail objects of PersistentStore . A finance screen of operations manager can provide functionality for changing one s subscription limiting expenditures by other users of the virtual venue application and can also display one or more reports of expenses and revenues.

In one embodiment portal manager can display one or more screens that are only available to a user associated with a portal administrator role where the user can be for example an employee of a corporation that owns the virtual venue application. The one or more screens can include overview of all virtual venues overviews of all users site and virtual venue statistics as well as billing management. As illustrated in portal manager can interact with many objects of PersistentStore such as user objects venue objects finance objects ShowObject objects audit trail objects and statistics trail objects. Portal manager can also provide functionality for importing new pre made venue objects such as exhibits rooms faces and containers. Portal manager can also import new ShowObject objects. Furthermore portal manager can define new billing models and can import them as one or more finance objects.

Each design tool can have a corresponding persistent storage of the object type it provides a design for. Some of these design tools can include screens for browsing pre made objects that can be publicly shared and or for sale. In the for sale scenario the design tool can receive credit card information and record the transaction. As discussed below in greater detail this can cause a transaction to be executed by a payment engine where the payment engine also interacts with stored information in one or more finance objects.

In certain embodiments an avatar engine can process an avatar s movement within a virtual environment as well as a separate head movement capability to allow an avatar to look in a direction while the avatar moves. Avatar engine can work in tandem with venue object model render engine so that avatar engine can render the avatar properly within a virtual venue environment. For example avatar engine can work with venue object model render engine so that avatar engine can manage room entry and exit as well as avatar face container and ShowObject collision. Avatar engine can include group engine that can provide additional avatar grouping operations. These avatar grouping operations can help manage multiple avatars travelling together. In certain embodiments avatar engine can also include transport engine that can provide functionality for advancing an avatar for to a specific position in a virtual venue with a specific look or gaze angle or gaze vector . Transport engine can also provide a link between two or more virtual venues. For example a transport button may be available on a particular ShowObject in one venue that denotes to avatars that are passing by that further exploration on a particular theme represented by the ShowObject is available by transporting to the represented location. One embodiment beneficially provides the functionality to transport to completely different sites that host a virtual venue application and that support an avatar transporting protocol. The protocol requires that the site support a venue object model that is implemented by venue object model render engine and performs a similar avatar engine as avatar engine . The actual protocol interaction with the other site can involve an invocation of a transport application programming interface API that packages a presentation of an avatar and transmits it to the other site along with a uniform resource indicator URI that includes a unique venue exhibit room location gaze angle vector address. At that point the target virtual venue becomes the new server managing the user s avatar. This can be similar to a clicking on a link on one website to give control to a second website that the link links to and navigating to a specific webpage on the second website. In certain embodiments where the target virtual venue is public the transfer can occur normally. In certain embodiments where the target virtual venue requires membership the transfer can be blocked and instead an offer to request membership can be provided. This invitation process can require joining another site.

A payment engine can handle ongoing subscription payments provided by users of the virtual venue application. Payment engine can also be utilized when a user purchased one or more ShowObjects in a virtual venue that is a store.

As previously described in certain embodiments a virtual tour can be provided where the virtual tour is a virtual tour that is guided by an automated virtual tour guide such as a virtual avatar but where the virtual avatar can interact with avatars that are operated by real persons. In these embodiments such automated tours can easily be created while also maintaining several sophisticated interactive and real time features expected of a real tour guide.

Virtual avatar tour manager can provide functionality for browsing existing virtual tours creating new virtual tours and editing or deleting existing virtual tours. When creating or editing a virtual tour virtual avatar tour manager can employ virtual avatar tour designer where virtual avatar tour designer is a subsystem that provides functionality for constructing tours and editing tours. Once complete a virtual tour can be performed by virtual avatar tour runtime which executes the virtual tour within the context of a virtual environment. In one embodiment the virtual tour is performed within a context of a three dimensional virtual environment while in another embodiment the virtual tour is performed within the context of a two dimensional virtual environment. One skilled in the art of computer graphics and modeling is familiar with the techniques for representing objects in a two dimensional or three dimensional environment and rendering them visually while also providing functionality for rending a user s avatar and letting the user move the avatar around the virtual environment as well as angle the virtual avatar s head to gaze at an angle vector that is arbitrary to the avatar s movements. Any of these techniques can be used for representing the objects in a two dimensional or three dimensional environment as previously described.

One embodiment provides a creation of a virtual tour that beneficially makes it very easy to construct the virtual tour. Virtual avatar tour designer can create and edit virtual tours where a user can be required to be associated with a curator role and also be required to be associated with a virtual venue before a user is allowed to create or edit a virtual tour. In certain embodiments when beginning the creation of the virtual tour a set of buttons for facilitating tour creation and editing can be displayed to a user. The buttons can include a record button a play button a pause button a reverse button a fast forward button and a TalkSpot button. The user can click or touch the record button to create a virtual tour. Then the user moves their avatar to where they wish to direct the tour understanding that their avatar s movements will generate the exact same movements for the avatar tour guide that will perform the tour. The user as the avatar then clicks or touches ShowObjects in the rooms that they visit. This records a sequence of ShowObjects that comprise the virtual tour.

TalkSpots are a facility for increasing a sophistication of a virtual tour but maintaining easy creation of the whole virtual tour. A TalkSpot is a location where the avatar tour guide can pause and talk. Such spots may only be used to pause and the avatar tour guide will not talk but may merely indicate that the virtual tour is stopping and may express a suggestion that other uses walk around while the virtual tour is paused. In certain embodiments the virtual tour can be created with one or more pause locations where the virtual avatar guide can pause and talk to the other avatars following within the virtual tour. These pause locations are TalkSpots. One embodiment provides the functionality to click or touch locations in a virtual environment to be TalkSpots prior to a virtual tour creation as part of the virtual tour creation preparation. In this embodiment the TalkSpots can be highlighted as a glowing bright green light and it can be expected that the virtual avatar will be recorded as walking through most if not all TalkSpots. In one embodiment a TalkSpot is simply created when a TalkSpot button is clicked or touched. 

The ability to ask questions and have them answered is generally a very important and common feature of a real tour and thus in certain embodiments a virtual tour can provide this functionality. According to these embodiments virtual avatar tour designer can provide functionality for constructing a dictionary of questions and corresponding answers. The dictionary structure supports text questions and answers as well as audio questions and answers. In certain embodiments a more sophisticated dictionary structure can be provided where specific questions may be associated with one or more rooms of a virtual venue. This allows the avatar tour guide to determine whether an asked question is associated with the current room or a room that the virtual tour has been in. If so the avatar tour guide can answer the question. If no the avatar tour guide can indicate that the avatar tour guide will answer the question when the virtual tour reaches the associated room. In certain embodiments the avatar tour guide can answer any question regardless of the question s room association.

In certain embodiments some locations on a virtual tour can be optimal vantage points to look at or hear something. For example some sophisticated virtual venues may employ an ability to construct exhibits and rooms that are missing walls so that a user can look onto a much large room presenting space an ocean or other scenery. Such locations can have an x y position on a specific face coupled with a gaze direction unit vector denoting a direction in two dimension space or three dimension space that the avatar positioned there should gaze toward. Such locations are identified as StandSpots. Thus in certain embodiments a user can create StandSpots in rooms of a virtual venue. According to these embodiments a gaze direction can be created by clicking or touching a point in a virtual venue that the avatars on the StandSpot should look at. This point is identified as a GazeSpot. StandSpots can be created and can exist outside of a virtual tour but they can be referenced in a virtual tour by an avatar tour guide. In certain embodiments an avatar tour guide can reference StandSpots when it stops at a TalkSpot and can give avatars that are on a virtual tour time to transport to the various StandSpots. Transporting to a StandSpot can cause the avatar to begin at a gaze direction but the avatar can look at other angles or move off the StandSpot at any time. In certain embodiments transporting of all avatars on a virtual tour to a specifically referenced StandSpot can be forced. A virtual tour creator can select this option while creating a virtual tour using virtual avatar tour designer .

In certain embodiments in contrast to a StandSpot a StandArea may also be created which can be rectangular circular or arbitrary shaped. One or more avatars can randomly be placed within a StandArea where the avatars can be positioned so they are all looking at a GazeSpot. A StandArea can space avatar placement within the StandArea. In one embodiment non collision of avatars can be enforced within a StandArea.

According to the embodiments virtual avatar tour runtime includes choreography engine question and answer Q A engine interaction processor and StandSpot Area engine . Choreography engine is configured to interpret all items stored in a virtual tour script causing the avatar tour guide to move make hand gestures reference questions and answers as well as employ referenced StandSpots GazeSpots and TalkSpots. In certain embodiments choreography engine utilizes Q A engine and StandSpot Area engine to do so. According to an embodiment in addition to virtual venues being searchable StandSpots GazeSpots and TalkSpots within a virtual venue as well as across all virtual venues can be searched. Interaction processor can be configured to allow avatars to control and interact with an avatar tour guide in various ways as described below.

According to an embodiment to perform a virtual tour a user employs an avatar to select a virtual tour available from a list of virtual tours presented on a virtual tour station ShowObject. The list is retrieved from the virtual tours objects stored and filtered by a current venue. Such a virtual tour station ShowObject may be deployed typically in an admission room or atrium area but could be placed on any ShowSpot. An initiator of such a virtual tour identified as a virtual tour coordinator can select whether the tour is private or public and then can enter a virtual tour waiting area. If the virtual tour is public the virtual tour can be advertised in a list on a virtual tours screen. If private the waiting area can require the virtual tour coordinator to invite individuals to the virtual tour. When ready the virtual tour coordinate clicks or touches a Start Tour pushbutton. All avatars on the virtual tour will have an Ask Question pushbutton a Pause pushbutton a Resume pushbutton and a Leave pushbutton. The virtual tour coordinator will have these pushbuttons as well as a Restart pushbutton an End pushbutton a Fast Forward pushbutton and a Reverse pushbutton. In certain embodiments the virtual tour coordinate can also have a Go back ten seconds pushbutton and a Go forward ten seconds pushbutton. If a virtual tour coordinator leaves a virtual tour one or more algorithms can be provided for selecting a new virtual tour coordinate. In one embodiment the algorithm selects a new virtual tour coordinator randomly. In one embodiment a user is selected that has the most logged time in virtual tours as the new virtual tour coordinator. Many other selection algorithms are also possible.

According to an embodiment virtual avatar tour runtime can provide a virtual avatar tour guide that while completely automated behaves very naturally similar to a real person. This can provide a superior experience relative to a simple video or three dimensional model animation that is unable to interact. For example the avatar tour guide can make eye contact with avatars in a tour knowing geometrically and in real time exactly where the eyes on avatars are located and can make natural pointing movements to ShowObjects in rooms corresponding to the same sequence and timing of ShowObjects pointed to during creation of the virtual tour within virtual avatar tour designer . In one embodiment virtual avatar tour designer can insert hand gestures to the make the avatar tour guide seem even more natural than it would otherwise. A library of hand gesture movements can be provided where one or more hand gesture sequences can be incorporated into a virtual tour script. For example one open hand while talking two open hands while talking hand waves pointing to avatars in the room etc. In one embodiment new hand gesture sequences can be imported for reuse later. In another embodiment text dialog can be transformed into sign language for deaf users.

In certain embodiments users can ask a question. One embodiment allows users to click or touch a pushbutton at any time during a performance of a virtual tour. In one embodiment at all times during a virtual tour an Ask Question pushbutton that users can click or touch to ask a question can be provided. A tour creator while using virtual avatar tour designer can designate portions of the virtual tour where no questions may be asked according to one embodiment. During such portions the Ask Question pushbutton can be disabled. One embodiment provides the ability for a TalkSpot to be designated available for questions and answers. In other words an avatar tour guide can automatically say it is available for questions when the avatar tour guide is located at the TalkSpot. In one embodiment available questions can be displayed within a screen and a user can ask the question by clicking or touching the displayed questions. N questions can be displayed from the N most popular questions asked in one embodiment. In another embodiment questions can be asked by typing in the questions. In one embodiment keywords from the question can be employed to look up possible answers. This embodiment can employ a keyword index maintained by a commercial text indexing system such as Apache Lucene . According to the embodiment one or more stored question objects are searched to locate content that the keywords most likely match. Once the question objects identified from the index search are determined the associated answer objects can then be returned. One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that there are various techniques for realizing answers to stored questions and that one of these techniques can be used in order to provide the most accurate and natural answers possible. One embodiment can let an avatar on a virtual tour know that the virtual avatar tour guide cannot answer a specific questions but will email an answer later.

In certain embodiments during a virtual tour some users may get distributed or not pay attention and start lagging behind the avatar tour guide s general vicinity. In these embodiments the avatar tour guide can speak to the lagging users such as calling out their names or requesting that everyone rejoin the group. In alternate embodiments lagging users can be transported to the same room that the avatar tour guide is in after a predefined number of seconds.

Thus according to certain embodiments of the invention the virtual venue application when implemented as part of an apparatus of system enables users to overcome disadvantages of physical location and lack of proximity. Furthermore the virtual venue application can provide collaborative information storage computer program products and data processing systems as previously described. In addition the virtual venue application provides users with an easy streamlined way to create a rich three dimensional virtual environment. Thus the virtual venue application can make creation of a three dimensional virtual environment simple and easy but still allows the created three dimensional virtual environment to provide easy and intuitive interaction sharing collaboration and organization of a rich comprehensive collection of objections and information. The new and succinct object model assists organization of a complex collection of objects while dragging and dropping makes it easy to create each room in the virtual environment.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with hardware elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

