---

title: Metal abstraction peptide (MAP) tag and associated methods
abstract: Compositions comprising a tripeptide having the sequence XCC; wherein X is any amino acid such that XCCis capable of binding a metal in a square planar orientation or square pyramidal orientation or both; and wherein Cand Care the same or different; and wherein Cand Cindividually are chosen from a cysteine and a cysteine-like nonnatural amino acid, as well as metal-XCCcomplexes and methods for forming such complexes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08975082&OS=08975082&RS=08975082
owner: University of Kansas
number: 08975082
owner_city: Lawrence
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120323
---
This application is a continuation under 35 USC 120 of U.S. Ser. No. 13 341 223 filed Dec. 30 2011 which is a continuation under 35 USC 120 of U.S. Ser. No. 12 465 448 filed May 13 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 110 402 issued Feb. 7 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 052 918 filed on May 13 2008 each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention was developed under a grant from National Institutes of Health Grant No. P20 RR 17708 . The U.S. Government may have certain rights to the invention.

This disclosure includes a sequence listing submitted as a text file pursuant to 37 C.F.R. 1.52 e v named 41861701303SeqListing.txt created on Mar. 23 2012 with a size of 2.44 kb which is incorporated herein by reference.

Previously it has been a common technique to utilize metals to extract polypeptides e.g. proteins or protein fragments from compositions. Such extraction has been based on the ability of a metal to complex with a specific polypeptide over other substances within the composition. It is known that two different peptide based metal binding tags can be used for separating a peptide from a composition. However these binding tags have specific types of amino acids and specific numbers or specific sequences of amino acids that are utilized to accomplish binding that are substantially different from those described in connection with the present invention. For example these two binding tags may not bind the same types of metals or bind using the same geometry as the present invention. Additional information regarding the first binding tag can be obtained in U.S. Pat. No. 7 208 138 B2 by Haroon et al. and pertains to a peptide comprising the sequence NXEQVSP SEQ ID No 7 . Information regarding the second binding tag can be obtained in U.S. patent application publication 2004 0018974 by Arbogast et al. and pertains to a sequence of the tag that appears to be the entire protein described therein.

Tags that can be encoded in the genetic material of an organism for recombinant expression of proteins have been utilized extensively for purification and identification of protein products. The most noteworthy example of this has been the His tag technology which provides a facile means of effectively isolating the tagged protein from whole cells using immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC . Numerous other peptide based tags have been developed for detecting a tagged protein in cell culture assays or cell lysates using antibodies that recognize the peptide tag. These technologies are useful in in situ or in vitro assays but they generally are not applicable to in vivo analysis. The advantage of a peptide tag is that the tag is covalently attached to the protein of interest without the need for additional chemical steps to label the protein.

MRI imaging is a common method for examining structural features in live animals and humans. The technology is safe and non invasive. Contrast agents have been developed to improve the sensitivity of the method and they are used to enhance the features observed in the MRI image. The improvement is achieved because contrast agents contain metals that alter the signal from neighboring molecules typically water. The most commonly used agents chelate Gd III but other metals can be used to enhance contrast. Gd containing contrast agents cannot be used in patients with compromised kidney function as serious complications known as Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis or Nephrogenic Fibrosing Dermopathy can result. Alternative imaging agents are needed to address the needs of such patients. Compounds that chelate metals are also used in PET and SPECT imaging to view molecular level details.

The present disclosure generally relates to tripeptide motifs and methods of using such motifs. These peptides have the ability to bind to metals which makes them useful for a variety of applications. In particular the tripeptides of the present disclosure have applications in imaging research chemotherapy and chelation therapies.

According to certain embodiments the present disclosure provides compositions comprising a tripeptide having the sequence XCC wherein X is any amino acid such that XCCis capable of binding a metal in a square planar orientation or square pyramidal orientation or both and wherein Cand Care the same or different and wherein Cand Cindividually are chosen from a cysteine and a cysteine like nonnatural amino acid.

According to other embodiments the present disclosure provides compositions comprising a tripeptide having the sequence XCCand a metal wherein the metal is complexed with the tripeptide and wherein X is any amino acid such that tripeptide and metal form a complex having a square planar orientation or square pyramidal orientation or both and wherein Cand Care the same or different and wherein Cand Cindividually are chosen from a cysteine and a cysteine like nonnatural amino acid.

According to other embodiments the present disclosure provides methods comprising complexing with a metal a tripeptide having the sequence XCCto form a metal XCCcomplex wherein X is any amino acid such that metal XCCcomplex has a square planar orientation or square pyramidal orientation or both and wherein Cand Care the same or different and wherein Cand Cindividually are chosen from a cysteine and a cysteine like nonnatural amino acid.

The features and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the description of the embodiments that follows.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific example embodiments have been shown in the figures and are herein described in more detail. It should be understood however that the description of specific example embodiments is not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary this disclosure is to cover all modifications and equivalents as defined by the appended claims.

The present invention generally relates to short peptide motifs and methods of using such motifs. These peptides have the ability to selectively bind to metals which makes them useful for a variety of applications. In particular the peptides of the present invention have applications in imaging research chemotherapy and chelation therapies.

Generally the present disclosure is related to short novel peptide motifs that strongly bind with a select metal referred to as MAP tag s . As such these MAP tags can be used among other things to extract the select metal from a composition. The MAP tags of the present disclosure are 3 amino acids in length and may be included in longer polypeptides and proteins at the N terminus C terminus or any position in between. In certain embodiments however it may be advantageous for the MAP tag to be present in a polypeptide or protein configuration that presents the MAP tag for binding with a metal such as being present in an external loop. The MAP tag also may be attached to a non peptide entity. Additionally more than one MAP tag may be present on a particular molecule.

It is known that many proteins bind metals. However such binding typically utilizes discontinuous sequences of amino acids within a folded protein structure to accomplish tight binding which upon unfolding then easily release the metal. On the other hand metal binding by MAP tags is accomplished using atoms in very close proximity and as such extreme conditions are required to release the metal. Thermal and chemical denaturation of the protein permits slow release of the metal. For example use of extreme conditions e.g. boiling temperature strong acid may lead to slow release of the metal over a period of time e.g. several to many hours .

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a novel peptide based tag or binding agent for a metal a MAP tag . The MAP tag can be used to directly encode a high affinity metal binding site in polypeptides or proteins. The MAP tags of the present disclosure are characterized by their ability to bind metals in a square planar and or square pyramidal geometry.

The MAP tags of the present disclosure generally comprise at least three contiguous amino acid residues capable of binding a metal. The MAP tags of the present disclosure generally have a sequence represented by XCC in which Cand Cmay be the same or different and may be a cysteine or a cysteine like nonnatural amino acid e.g. a sulfur containing alpha or beta amino acid and in which X may be another natural or nonnatural amino acid or amino acid analogue so long as the peptide tag formed is capable of binding a metal in square planar pyramidal geometry. As used herein the abbreviations for the L enantiomeric amino acids are conventional and are as follows 

When an amino acid sequence is represented as a series of three letter or one letter amino acid abbreviations it will be understood that the left hand direction is the amino terminal direction and the right hand direction is the carboxy terminal direction in accordance with standard usage and convention.

The MAP tag of the present disclosure can be encoded in line with a gene or nucleotide sequence for expression using any recombinant technology system. Additionally it can be incorporated into a peptide or protein using any synthetic or biosynthetic method for peptide or protein production. In application the MAP tag spontaneously reacts with a metal to form a peptide metal complex. Such peptide metal complexes may form in solution or via transmetallation or any other process.

The MAP tag can be used alone or as a tag that can be attached to the N terminus C terminus or inserted into a flexible linker or loop within a polypeptide chain. The MAP tag can be modified at any position other than at the side chains involved in metal coordination. Accordingly the MAP tag may comprise sequences such as Z XCC Z Z may be any amino acid or any sequence of amino acids and Zmay be any amino acid or sequence of amino acids that is equivalent or not equivalent to Z. The amino acids are represented as in above Table 1. Non natural and amino acids analogues are not listed in the table but they may be incorporated into Z Z and or X.

In certain embodiments the MAP tag may be attached to another molecule. For example the MAP tag may be attached to a non peptide entity like a carbohydrate e.g. hyaluronic acid . The attachment may be covalent and may be affected through a linker.

In some embodiments the MAP tag may comprise a sequence as follows NCC Z NCC Z Z NCC NCC Z QCC Z QCC Z Z QCC QCC Z HCC Z HCC Z Z HCC HCC Z KCC Z KCC Z Z KCC KCC Z RCC Z RCC Z Z RCC or RCC Z. As above Z may be any amino acid or any sequence of amino acids and Zmay be any amino acid or sequence of amino acids that is equivalent or not equivalent to Z. The amino acids are represented as in above Table 1. Non natural and amino acids analogues are not listed in the table but they may be incorporated into compounds Z and Z.

In certain embodiments a MAP tag of the present disclosure may be encoded in line with a gene or nucleotide sequence that provides for targeted delivery of the MAP tag either before MAP tag complexation with a metal or after complexation with a metal. This may be accomplished using genes peptides or other motifs known to be useful for targeting. For example MAP tags may be incorporated with an antibody growth factors peptides and the like.

In certain embodiments the MAP tags of the present disclosure alone or when incorporated into a polypeptide or protein may complex with a metal to form a MAP tag metal complex having a square planar pyramidal geometry. The metal may complex with the MAP tag through 2N 2S coordination. The MAP tags also may bind a number of metals in a square planar geometry under suitable conditions that will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. In general the MAP tags of the present disclosure may bind referring to IUPAC Group Group 3 metals such as Y Group 5 metals such as V and U Group 6 metals such as Cr Mo W Group 7 metals such as Mn Tc Re Group 8 metals such as Fe and Ru Group 9 metals such as Co Rh Ir Group 10 metals such as Ni Pd Pt Group 11 metals such as Cu Ag Au Group 12 metals such as Zn Cd Hg Group 13 metals such as Al Ga In TI Group 14 metals such as Sn and Pb and Group 15 metals such as Bi. In certain embodiments the MAP tag may bind and form a MAP tag metal complex with Zn Ni Cu Pt Pd Au Ag Pb and Fe.

As mentioned above upon binding the metal the MAP tag has a square planar geometry. The present disclosure also contemplates MAP tag metal coordination in a variety of square planar configurations. For example when the MAP tag is NCC and the metal is any metal as described above and represented as M the MAP tag may have a structural formula represented by Formula 1 

Other structural configurations are also contemplated. For example when the MAP tag is NCCand Cis a nonnatural amino acid such as S 2 amino 2 mercaptoacetic acid and Cis cysteine the MAP tag s structural formula may be represented as Formula 2 in which M is any metal as described above 

As mentioned above a MAP tag is capable of binding metals with high affinity. A MAP tag is also capable of abstracting a metal from various compositions ranging from fluids to solids. Consequently the ability of MAP tags to abstract the metal rather than share coordination make them amenable for use in separating a specific metal from another composition as described more fully below. The MAP tag sequesters a metal ion from compositions by complexing with the metal and then abstracting or removing the metal from a component in the composition such as a chelating agent e.g. EDTA or a solid support conjugated with for example IDA or NTA. As such the MAP tag is a metal abstraction peptide MAP tag.

Additionally due at least in part to a MAP tag s ability to selectively bind to metals embodiments of the present disclosure may be useful for chelation therapy. Thus a MAP tag may be used to sequester a biologically toxic metal such as lead.

Similarly MAP tags also may be useful in sequestering metals from water other aqueous solutions or any compositions outside of the body. The MAP tag itself is generally soluble in numerous solvents. However in certain embodiments the MAP tag metal complex is poorly soluble in many organic solvents and may precipitate once metal binding occurs. This allows for efficient separation during the extraction from an organic solvent.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides methods for imaging using a MAP tag. Such methods may be used for therapeutic and medical imaging or for other imaging applications. The metal chosen to be complexed with the MAP tag will depend on the particular application and imaging technique. For examples a paramagnetic metal may be chosen for use with imaging techniques such as MRI NMR and EPR while gold may be chosen for techniques such as electron microscopy while zinc may be chosen for applications such as fluorescence. Which metals are suitable for a given application and imaging technique are well known to those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment a MAP tag is utilized to prepare a reagent for use in imaging techniques. That is a MAP tag is bound to a metal which in turn provides a complex that can be used for imaging e.g. used in a body of a subject such that the metal can be use for imaging . Examples of suitable imaging techniques include alone or in combination Computed Tomography CT Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI ultrasound Positron Emission Tomography PET Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography SPECT Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR Electron Paramagnetic Resonance EPR electron microscopy fluorescence imaging and the like.

In another embodiment a MAP tag may be incorporated into a polypeptide or protein or non protein entity that localizes to a portion of a subject where the metal portion of a MAP tag metal complex provides the ability to image the site of localization such as a tissue or tumor. For example the MAP tag metal complex can be used to identify a tissue or other structure expressing a receptor and or binding partner to the targeting portion of the MAP tagged molecule. Imaging techniques that can visualize the metal can be used for the identification of such features.

For example MRI contrast agents are paramagnetic species typically containing a metal center that alter the relaxation of neighboring atoms to generate a difference in the detected signal between the areas where the contrast agent is present and those where it is not. A MAP tag may be paramagnetic when complexed with Cu. A MAP tag metal complex therefore has potential for use as a MRI contrast agent. Most contrast agents are not targeted on a microscopic level but are used to reveal macroscopic structures and defects in a body or tissue. In this type of application the concentration of the contrast agent is very high. Targeting a contrast agent to a selected tissue or microscopic feature is beneficial in that it permits identification of aberrations on the cellular level. For example the MAP tag may be expressed as a tag on an antibody that recognizes cancer cells expressing a specific receptor. Targeted delivery may allow for a lower concentration of contrast agent to be administered which among other things may help minimize toxicity and other side effects.

It is known that Cu is a radioactive isotope that is used in PET and SPECT imaging which are capable of imaging molecular details within a body. As such a MAP tag can be loaded with the appropriate radioisotope of Cu or another metal and used as a tracer with these imaging techniques. Similarly by fusing the tag to any protein or peptide or other molecule that binds a subset of cells targeted imaging can be accomplished.

The MAP tag is advantageous among other things because it is a short sequence with high affinity for certain metals. Thus by encoding a MAP tag in an expressed protein or other molecule targeted delivery to a specific cell type within an organism is possible. Further targeting a subset of cells permits a decrease in the amount of contrast agent needed for imaging.

The present invention may also be used to aid in chemotherapy. For example a MAP tag may form a complex with platinum and or radionucleotides and be used to provide targeted delivery to a particular cell or type of cell.

To facilitate a better understanding of the present invention the following examples of specific embodiments are given. In no way should the following examples be read to limit or to define the entire scope of the invention.

Mutagenesis techniques were used to identify the peptide motif having the strong binding affinity with select metals. Briefly the human PRL 1 gene was cloned into pET 30 Xa LIC vector Novagen and mutated using the PCR based QuikChange method Stratagene . The primers generating the C170S C171S and H166A mutants 5 to 3 were ggtcatagaaacaactCttgcattcaataaggatc SEQ ID No 1 ggtcatagaaacaactgttCcattcaataaggctgtaactc SEQ ID No 2 and cgtttcaaacattccaacggtGCtagaaacaactgttgcattc SEQ ID No 3 Integrated DNA Technologies Coralville Iowa respectively. Capital letters indicate mutated bases. PCR reactions were treated with DpnI Promega for 1.5 h at 37 C. directly transformed into NovaBlue GigaSingles Competent cells Novagen and plated on LB with 30 mg mL kanamycin selection. Individual colonies were grown overnight in selective LB at 37 C. The resultant DNA was purified using the Wizard Plus MiniPrep System Promega . All mutations were confirmed by DNA dye terminator sequencing Northwoods DNA Inc. Bemidji Minn. . The double mutant C170S C171S was produced by a second round of mutagenesis and similarly confirmed.

Vectors containing PRL 1 and relevant mutant genes were transformed into BL21 DE3 cells Novagen and grown overnight at 37 C. on selective LB. Selected colonies were grown in selective M9ZB broth overnight at 37 C. Overnight cultures were then transferred to 500 mL unlabeled minimal medium and induced with 1 mM IPTG at an ODbetween 0.6 and 0.8. Proteins expressed for NMR experiments were grown in minimal medium containing N chloride. Over expression of the recombinant protein was confirmed by SDS PAGE. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation at 4400 g and stored at 80 C. until used.

A series of PRL 1 mutants were examined to identify residues that participate in metal coordination. Model peptides containing a GGH like motif have been shown to coordinate Ni II and Cu II with extremely high affinity. In this motif substitution at either of the two Gly positions only modestly decreases binding whereas mutation of the His abolishes it. PRL 1 encodes NGH a GGH like consensus motif near its C terminus . Therefore PRL 1 H166A was made to test the hypothesis that the NGH sequence contained in PRL 1 is responsible for metal binding. PRL 1 and PRL 1 H166A analyzed by ICP MS in parallel bound approximately 120 and 60 M Ni respectively. Only a 20 decrease in signal was observed for H166A when measured by absorption spectroscopy. It also appears from the absorption spectra that the protein signal is diminished to an equivalent extent and that the loss of signal in the visible region is due to protein instability. Protein instability likely accounts for the disparity in the two detection methods since ICP MS requires substantially more manipulation of the sample prior to analysis. Because the histidine mutant retained tight binding mutations at C170 and or C171 were made because thiols often participate in Ni coordination. Ni levels in individual cysteine mutants as well as the double mutant were greatly reduced relative to wild type protein indicating both Cys residues influence metal coordination. No Ni was detected in the C170S mutant or the C170S C171S double mutant but a small signal of approximately 17 M was observed for PRL 1 C171S.

Protein purification techniques were used to purify the protein metal complex. Briefly cell pellets were resuspended in 30 mL buffer A 100 mM NaCl 50 mM Tris HCl 10 mM imidazole pH 7.4 Ar sparged and lysed at 15 000 psi using a French pressure cell ThermoElectron . Argon sparging of buffers was performed to displace oxygen. Samples then were centrifuged at 21 000 g and the supernatants were filtered through a 0.2 m nylon filter. Purification of His tagged PRL 1 was carried out using an kta Explorer purification system at a flow rate of 1 mL min. Samples were applied to a metal charged 5 ml HiTrap Chelating Column GE Healthcare and rinsed with 5 column volumes after loading. Elution was accomplished using a linear gradient to 60 buffer B 100 mM NaCl 50 mM Tris HCl 500 mM imidazole pH 7.4 with or without argon sparging over 13 column volumes to 100 B over 3 column volumes and maintained at 100 B for 4 column volumes. Elution was monitored by absorption at 280 nm and fractions were examined for purity using SDS PAGE. The appropriate fractions were pooled and dialyzed against Ar sparged or not sparged 100 mM NaCl 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4. The His tag was cleaved from the target protein using Factor Xa protease Promega overnight at room temperature. Protease was removed using Xarrest agarose Novagen and filtered with a 0.2 m nylon filter before reapplication to the column to remove the tag and any uncleaved protein. The protein was applied to the column in dialysis buffer and the initial flow through was collected to make the protein sample. Samples were concentrated and exchanged at least 10 fold in Ar sparged 100 mM NaCl 50 mM TrisCl pH 7.4 using Amicon Ultra 10 kDa MWCO centrifugal filters. Purity and mutant verification of the samples were ascertained by SDS PAGE and ESI MS respectively. Columns were treated with 1 M NaOH stripped with 2 column volumes of 100 mM EDTA and recharged with Ar sparged 100 mM NiSO 100 mM CuSO 100 mM CuClor 100 mM ZnClimmediately preceding each use.

Oxidation of aromatic residues was easily ruled out based on the mass spectrometry data from the intact and tryptic digest studies of the protein. Moreover we observed the density of the protein to be higher than expected as the rust colored protein becomes concentrated at the bottom of the tube during high speed centrifugation. As metal coordination would increase the density of the protein complex we further investigated the possibility that the chromophore is generated by the formation of a metal complex with the protein. Because metal chelation chromatography was used to purify PRL 1 the most likely source of metal ions was Ni from the IMAC resin.

When cell lysate containing recombinant WT PRL 1 is equally divided and purified side by side using Ni Cu or Zn charged IMAC resin the protein abstracts the metal bound to the chelating resin. The rate of transmetallation is most rapid with nickel followed by copper. Zinc is present to some extent in all samples indicating the protein picks up zinc in vivo. When zinc is bound to the column only zinc is observed in the protein. Apo PRL 1 is poorly soluble and loss of metal leads to precipitation. The soluble material from each purification when tested by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP MS has an equivalent proportion of metal bound.

ICP MS was used to characterize the bound metal. Briefly purified protein samples were digested in concentrated nitric acid in PFA microcentrifuge tubes Savillex s 7240 7241 at 68 1 C. for 16.5 0.7 hours. Based on protein quantification prior to digestion the sample was then diluted to 1.5 M in 20 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.2 filtered through a 0.2 m nylon filter and injected into a VG Elemental VGII XS Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer fitted with a microconcentric nebulizer. A minimum of two separately prepared samples were analyzed for each protein variant. Each sample was scanned twice and standards were run before between and after each sample scan. Drift was monitored during washes between scans of both sample and standard injections.

To investigate our hypothesis that the chromophore arises from protein abstraction of the metal from the charged IMAC matrix samples were subjected to ICP MS for semi quantitative analysis. As extensive washing is used to remove background metals the values obtained from this method inherently underestimate the amount of metal bound but can be used to assess the relative affinity of different metals for the protein. Additionally to identify an endogenous metal ligand that may have been bound to PRL 1 during expression in the cells ICP MS was used to look for the presence of a transition metal from the first two rows in the periodic table as well as other common biologically relevant metals. Strikingly the data showed that PRL 1 bound only to Zn and the specific metal for example Ni used on the IMAC column during purification. On average 500 M Ni purified protein samples were digested in nitric acid for 16 h at 70 C. were determined to contain approximately 180 M Ni yielding a Ni to protein stoichiometry of 1 2.7 0.7. Zn was also detected in the Ni purified samples at approximately 60 M. Separately purification of PRL 1 using Zn IMAC showed Zn was the only metal present in high quantity at 270 M 1 Zn 1.8 protein and these protein samples contained only background levels of Ni. ICP MS of both Ni and Zn purified PRL 1 show no other metals in significant quantity which suggests that zinc is coordinated in vivo and becomes partially displaced by Ni during the nickel chromatographic purification. Because ICP MS analysis is conducted in a flow of Ar and the most abundant isotope of Ar has the same mass as Ca Ca binding cannot be determined from the primary mass signal. Nonetheless because a much higher amount of Ca was present in the cell culture media compared to Zn and yet the ICP MS signal corresponds largely to zinc the protein is unlikely to bind calcium. The ICP MS data indicate Zn is present in an appreciable amount when PRL 1 is purified using Ni IMAC which suggest that Zn binding occurs in the cell.

UV Vis absorption spectra were used to measure the concentration of the PRL 1 protein. Briefly the concentrations of purified PRL 1 analogs were measured at 280 nm and calculated using an extinction coefficient of 19420 Mcm. Because of possible metal protein absorption interferences in the high 200 nm region the validity of the UV Vis quantification method was confirmed by the Bradford method. Spectra of PRL 1 analogs at concentrations of 10 5 2.5 and 1.25 mg mL were collected on a Cary 100 UV Vis spectrophotometer from 800 to 200 nm. To correct for scattering effects in the analysis PRL 1 WT spectra were adjusted by subtracting the PRL 1 C170S C171S spectrum because it does not bind metal. The resulting spectra were resolved and peak positions were evaluated using GRAMS AI 7.00 software. Three methods were aimed at metal displacement. In the first PRL 1 WT e.g. wild type samples were reduced using 20 mM mercaptoethanol BME and imidazole was added to a concentration of 10 mM. For 0.5 mM protein samples this corresponds to 400 fold solution excess of BME to compete with the two C terminal cysteine thiols and a 200 fold solution excess of imidazole to compete with the single C terminal histidine imidazole side chain. New baselines were taken and the spectra recalculated. In the second method baselines were recalculated for buffer containing 100 M EDTA and the spectrum for the PRL 1 WT sample that was exchanged ten million fold in 100 M EDTA was recorded. Finally 10 mg mL protein samples were denatured in 5.6 M guanidinium hydrochloride and heated to 90 C. new baselines were taken and the spectra were collected at 0 2 4 and 6 hrs.

Accordingly characterization of metal coordination by PRL 1 was determined with UV Vis absorption spectroscopy. The metal coordination geometry employed by PRL 1 and its mutants was analyzed using UV Vis absorption spectroscopy at 800 200 nm. Absorption spectra of PRL 1 produced peaks at 280 and 220 nm which arise from aromatic and peptide bonds within the protein and correspond well with the concentration determined using the Bradford assay. Metal containing compounds often absorb at several wavelengths in the visible range and the Ni and Cu purified PRL 1 proteins also display peaks in the visible range which correspond to the rust color of the sample. PRL 1 WT shows a maximum at 318 nm evident as a shoulder on the very large 280 band a broader signal at 421 nm and a very broad peak at 526 nm . Cu purified PRL 1 generates a similar spectral profile Ni purified PR1 1 data not shown however a small blue shift is observed for the individual spectral peaks which is expected when Cu is substituted for Ni. As expected no absorption or visible color was observed when the protein was purified using resin charged with Zn. This is due to the fact that Zn II has a completed d shell and as such should not show electronic transitions in the visible spectrum.

Relative to the WT protein the H166A variant showed the same absorption profile but the peaks were decreased in intensity to a degree consistent with the ICP MS results. The spectra of PRL 1 WT and PRL 1 H166A are distinct from those of the cysteine mutants in the visible region. At equivalent concentration individual substitutions at cysteine 170 and or 171 with serine show complete loss of signal at 421 and 526 nm. These mutant proteins were examined at concentrations as high as 10 mg mL 0.5 mM and no specific absorption bands were detected. Signal from the WT is evident at 0.1 mg mL indicating that binding of Ni is decreased by each mutation at least 100 fold.

Deconvolution of the UV Vis spectra of corrected WT protein was performed between 300 and 700 nm and reveals that the 318 nm peak is composed of 3 separate absorbance bands at 306 325 and 372 nm respectively contributing 54 38 and 7 to the total composite peak absorbance . The absorption profile of PRL 1 H166A is highly similar to the wild type protein spectrum. The absence of the imidazole group at residue 166 does not shift the absorbance maxima or contribute significantly to the component bands of the 318 nm absorption further indicating that the imidazole from the histidine within the NGH motif does not directly coordinate Ni.

Ni binding in PRL 1 is not affected by reduction of the disulfide bond at PRL 1 s active site. Addition of 20 mM BME did not alter the UV or visible region of the spectral absorption profile indicating that metal binding is largely unaffected by reduction of the protein and the presence of the reducing agent. Subtraction of the reduced spectrum from the oxidized confirms that there is no significant difference in metal coordination between the reduced and oxidized WT samples. To examine whether a small contribution from a His is made additional imidazole was added to the solution to increase the signal strength of a transient association. Addition of 10 mM imidazole had no effect on the absorption profile which suggests that access to the Ni is limited. Additionally no spectral change was observed when the Ni purified sample was reduced in the presence of imidazole. Ten million fold exchange of Ni purified WT sample into buffer containing 100 M EDTA had little effect on the spectrum and absorbance values for this sample were within error of the WT absorbance. Raising the pH from 7.4 to 8.5 should increase the molar absorptivity coefficient by approximately 6 fold but interestingly no change in is observed when the pH is elevated which may suggest that the bound Ni is solvent inaccessible in PRL 1. Decreasing the pH to 6.5 however does decrease the intensity of the visible peaks data not shown .

Ni binding appears to be irreversible at pH 7.4 as displacement of Ni from Ni purified PRL 1 requires aggressive measures. When Ni purified PRL 1 was treated with 5.6 M guanidinium hydrochloride at 90 C. the peaks at 318 421 and 526 nm only gradually disappear over 6 hrs data not shown . The concomitant appearance of a signal at 750 nm was observed over the 6 hours which indicates Ni was released from the protein and coordinated by water in octahedral geometry. shows the electronic absorption spectra of PRL 1 variants purified in the presence of Ni ion. Three spectra for each protein variant were recorded from 800 to 200 nm and averaged. Protein concentration for all variants is 5 mg mL to within 10 based on Acomparison. Shown are the spectra from 700 to 300 nm. Visible features are absorbance maxima at 318 and 421 nm. In curves are as follows PRL 1 WT black PRL 1 H166A red PRL 1 C170S C171S orange PRL 1 C1705 green PRL 1 C171S blue.

The inset of shows the spectra from 600 to 400 nm are shown at an expanded scale for visualization of absorption maxima at 421 and 526 nm.

Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry ESI MS was used to analyze the samples. Briefly ESI spectra were acquired on a Q T of 2 Micromass Ltd Manchester UK Hybrid Mass Spectrometer operated in MS mode and acquiring data with the time of flight analyzer de tuned to 8000 resolution FWHH for sensitivity. For whole protein ESI spectra purified protein samples were diluted to 1 g L in untreated oxidizing 20 mM ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.2 and allowed to incubate at room temperature. Time points were taken on the first fourth and seventh day post purification and frozen at 80 C. until ready for use. Samples were desalted on a short 3 cm 1 mm I.D. reverse phase RP HPLC column Hamilton PRP1 Reno Nev. . Samples were loaded onto the column from a 1 formic acid solution with protein 5 g washed in same solution and eluted with 90 MeOH 0.5 formic acid directly into the ESI source. The cone voltage was 60 eV and the voltage on the collision cell was 20 V. Spectra were acquired over the mass range 800 to 3000 u accumulating data for 5 seconds per cycle.

For tryptic digests PRL 1 WT PRL 1 H166A and PRL 1 C170S C171S were diluted to 1 mg mL in ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.2 with or without 20 mM mercaptoethanol and trypsin Promega was added in a 1 50 ratio protease protein w w and incubated at 37 C. for 16 hrs. To confirm complete digestion samples at various time points were run on SDS PAGE and visualized by silver staining Coupled to MS analysis capillary HPLC separations were performed using a Zorbax SBC18 RP column 5 cm 0.32 mm I.D. 3.5 m bead size 300 pore size packed by Micro Tech Scientific Sunnyvale Calif. with a chromatograph Waters capLC XL Milford Mass. that develops gradients at 10 L min. A linear gradient of 20 to 80 B was applied over 120 minutes. The solvents were A 99 HO 1 MeOH B 99 MeOH 1 HO both 0.08 formic acid. Argon was admitted to the collision cell at a pressure that attenuates the beam to about 20 . This corresponds to 16 psi on the supply regulator or 5.3 10mBar on a penning gauge near the collision cell. The collision cell was operated at 8 V for maximum transmission and spectra were acquired over the range 250 to 2000 u accumulating data for 8 seconds per cycle.

NMR experiments were conducted to analyze the samples. Briefly 2D H N HSQC spectra were acquired on a Bruker Avance 800 MHz NMR spectrometer using a cryogenic triple resonance probe equipped with pulse field gradients. Water suppression was accomplished using flip back pulses. All spectra were obtained at 37 C. and acquired in 16 scans with 2048 points in H. 256 or 128 increments were collected in N for WT and C170S C171S respectively. Samples were prepared in 50 mM sodium phosphate 100 mM NaCl at pH 6.5 and contained 5 DO. The concentration of WT PRL 1 and PRL 1 C170S C171S was 1.0 mM and 0.8 mM respectively. Sample reduction was accomplished by addition of 10 mM DTT at least 24 hours prior to spectral acquisition. H chemical shifts were referenced with respect to an external DSS standard in DO. Indirect referencing relative to H was determined for C and N assuming ratios C H 0.251449530 and N H 0.101329118. Computer programs nmrPipe and Sparky were used for data processing and spectral analysis.

To confirm that the MAP tag motif is entirely responsible for metal binding we synthesized NCC. The NCC peptide was synthesized and purified and the peptide was incubated with metal charged IMAC resin. Complex formation was verified using electrospray ionization mass spectrometry ESI MS operating in negative ion mode .

In the NCC peptide the absorption signal mimics that observed for the peptide metal complex embedded in PRL 1 but the complex is more exposed in the tripeptide. The absorption in the visible range intensifies when the pH is raised from 6 to 7.4. Acidification diminishes the signal intensity and when returned to the more basic pH full signal fails to be restored indicating irreversible loss of some metal from the square planar geometry may occur. Elevation of the pH to 10 suggests a fifth ligand presumably water or hydroxide is coordinated generating a square pyramidal arrangement. At pH 7.4 this ligand is presumably highly exchangeable and too transient to be detected by absorption spectroscopy. The exchangeable ligand provides an avenue for paramagnetic relaxation of the bulk solvent and can be detected by MRI . Additionally the metal was added by mixing the metal salt into aqueous solution containing the peptide. Depending on the conditions the absorption spectrum of the peptide either paralleled the complex formed via metal transfer or was distinctly different from that obtained for the full length protein. The differing spectrum reveals that the metal may be coordinated solely by sulfur in this case. Although the NCC peptide is sufficient to confer metal binding the type of complex generated depends on the method by which the metal is introduced to the peptide. Transmetallation provides an efficient pathway for incorporation of the metal into the NCC tripeptide to generate the extremely high affinity square planar complex.

The GGH like metal complex of NGH is shown in Structure 1. We envisioned two possible chemical structures for the metal bound NCC complex which are shown in Structure 2 and Structure 3. Structure 2 corresponds to a GGH like arrangement that involves coordination of the metal by several deprotonated backbone N atoms. In this case the imidazolium nitrogen from His would be replaced in NCC with the sulfur from the Cys in the third position in the coordinated complex. This complex would have 3N 1S coordination which is not consistent with our absorption spectra. To verify the unique specific coordination by NCC NGC also was synthesized and confirmed the importance of the central Cys side chain in metal binding. The NGC peptide incubated with the IMAC resin does not produce an absorbance spectrum that resembles the metal bound NCC or PRL 1 spectrum. As such we concluded that GGH like coordination is not utilized and must have a much lower affinity for binding metal in the specified geometry.

Structure 3 is completely in line with the data obtained for both the peptide alone and the peptide in the context of the larger protein. The absorption spectrum of both indicate that two sulfur atoms participate in the complex along with two nitrogen atoms one which is deprotonated and the other which has a single proton attached. Structure 3 may not involve the N terminal amine group which would likely cause differences in the spectra of the peptide and protein because this atom would be embedded in a peptide bond in the protein. Based in part on this structure the nitrogen from Q H K or R may be substitute for N in the first position of the motif.

The metal binding site and coordination geometry was studied. The finding that PRL 1 binds divalent metal cations is interesting because specific metal coordination by other PTPases has not been reported. The C terminal sequence of PRL 1 is unique among this enzyme family and it encodes both a GGH like motif which in certain cases is able to bind metal but not in this case and the novel MAP tag motif The geometry of GGH like motifs is square planar. The characteristic rust color observed with the concentrated PRL 1 samples parallels the color of the GGH peptides which suggests that Ni coordination occurs in a square planar geometry. Our studies further reveal that Ni is bound in the C terminus of PRL 1. Metal coordination is not accomplished by the GGH like motif in PRL 1 because mutation of the would be essential His has little affect on binding. Despite the fact that both tripeptides bind using square planar coordination the chemistry for each is distinct.

UV Vis spectra derived from Ni purified WT PRL 1 display bands near 318 421 and 526 nm. For peptides and organic molecules binding Ni in a square planar geometry via nitrogen ligands characteristic d d bands near 420 nm are reported frequently in the literature. Maroney et al. Theoretical Study of the Oxidation of Nickel Thiolate Complexes by O 2 . 1996 Feb. 14 35 4 1073 1076 performed ab initio calculations and made spectral assignments of synthetic peptide mimetics that coordinate Ni II and Cu II using square planar geometry. With the exception of a single band their observations and calculations are in close agreement with the observed spectrum from PRL 1. Separately the reduced square planar form of NiSOD was analyzed using density functional theory the results of which show similar relevant features. The locations of the bands as well as the trend in their relative intensities in these systems are well preserved in the PRL 1 protein spectrum. Based on these and other studies it is likely the 526 nm band arises from Ni Nitransitions. Similarly the 421 nm band may come from Ni Nitransitions. The strong 318 nm band reflects the ligand metal charge transfer band LMCT . Resolution of the spectrum reveals that this absorbance is likely a composite of 3 bands at 306 325 and 372 nm. Using the other structures as a guide the sharpest most intense band at 306 nm would correspond to transitions from sulfur atoms with the other two bands likely arising from nitrogen donation or possibly weaker sulfur donation.

Within the series of C terminal mutants only mutations involving C170 and C171 abolished signal at these wavelengths. Most notably the 318 nm envelope corresponding to the LMCT is lacking in the cysteine mutant spectra. With respect to the entire absorption profile the small very broad absorbance in the low 300 nm region for the cysteine mutants appears to be an artifact from high intensity bands at lower wavelengths or a scattering effect as it is positioned incorrectly to be one of the 318 nm component bands. The bands attributable to transitions within Ni d orbitals 421 nm 526 nm also are absent when sulfur is substituted by oxygen. The original bands are absent and no additional bands appear upon mutation of either C170 or C171 in the absorption spectra. Also no disulfide bonds involving these residues are observed in the MS data. As such it seems that both cysteines directly participate in metal coordination. Our ICP MS data further indicate that both sulfur atoms from C170 and C171 are required for tight Ni binding as neither sulfur atom alone appears to be sufficient.

The spectral features generated by PRL 1 also suggest Ni is coordinated by nitrogen atoms in the remaining two positions. Frequently imidazolium N from His or backbone amide N are observed to coordinate metals such as Zn Cu and Ni. In model peptides and proteins that bind Ni using square planar geometry some of the ligating nitrogen groups become deprotonated and the negatively charged species binds the metal. The absorption band at 526 nm indicates that PRL 1 coordinates Ni via a deprotonated nitrogen whereas the 421 nm absorption generated in the PRL 1 spectrum reflects coordination by a singly protonated nitrogen. Mutations of the His in the GGH like motif to make PRL 1 H166A revealed that this histidine s side chain does not substantially influence Ni binding. PRL 1 encodes three other His in addition to H166. H23 H64 and H103 are located in distant regions of the sequence and are unlikely to remain tightly associated under denaturing conditions. Attempts to unfold the protein so as to release the metal required vigorous treatment with high concentrations of denaturants at high temperature for several hours. As chemical and heat denaturation permit only slow release of Ni and CD data show that PRL 1 completely unfolds well before Ni is released the metal is likely coordinated by atoms clustered in a short segment of the protein.

The GGH type peptides achieve extremely tight binding K 10 10 which is accomplished in part by deprotonated backbone amide nitrogens within the motif. In light of the extremely tight binding observed for PRL 1 and the predicted contribution from nitrogen atoms to Ni ligation backbone amides from PRL 1 may participate in metal coordination. Because the absence of either cysteine abolishes binding and truncation removes both the side chain and the backbone amide testing the hypothesis that metallation involves the amide nitrogens adjacent to C170 and C171 using mutagenesis is not feasible. Structural studies are the best way to identify the additional coordinating atoms and these studies are underway in our laboratory.

Cu NCC at physiological pH was placed in a tube surrounded by saline bags and imaged using a standard MRI at the Hoglund Brain Imaging Center at the University of Kansas Medical Center . In the bright signal in the center corresponds to the Cu NCC complex whereas the less bright signal corresponds to the saline solutions. Black corresponds to the tube and air.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope. All references recited herein are incorporated herein by specific reference.

