---

title: System and method for configuring a field device of a control system
abstract: A system and method for configuring a field device of a control system is provided. The system includes a mobile computing device for communicating with a wireless adapter coupled to the field device. The mobile computing device receives an application module via a wireless network communication module. The application module, when executed by a processor, configures the field device via a wireless direct communication module. The mobile computing device includes a user-friendly graphic display to provide and receive information associated with the configuration of the field device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471049&OS=09471049&RS=09471049
owner: General Equipment and Manufacturing Company, Inc.
number: 09471049
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
This disclosure relates generally to control systems and more particularly to a system device and method for configuring and or calibrating a field device used in a control system.

Control systems which include process control systems and safety instrumented systems SIS typically implement one or more controllers to control the process or safety system. The controllers in these systems frequently use field devices to perform a variety of functions within the control environment. For example in a level control system the field devices may be used to control and or monitor the amount of a liquid in a holding tank. When the level of the liquid has reached a predetermined position high or low the control system may respond by utilizing one of the field devices such as a valve to adjust the flow of liquid entering or exiting the holding tank.

In many control systems the field devices are periodically configured or calibrated. Control system personnel commonly use a handheld device to configure or calibrate the field device. These control system personnel connect the leads extending from the handheld device to the field device and then run on the handheld device an application module for configuring the field device.

In many instances the field device is located in a remote area that is difficult and or dangerous for control system personnel to reach. For example the field device might be located under water or in a contaminated environment. Before arriving at the location of the field device control system personnel must install the application module onto the handheld device. The application module may initially be stored on a library or database located at a remote location or on the Internet. Control system personnel must periodically connect the handheld device to the library or database to download new and modified application modules to the handheld device. In some instances control system personnel must be granted permission to download the application module to the handheld device. The process of requesting and receiving permission to download the application module may take several days or weeks. With vast numbers of handheld devices being utilized to configure field devices in control systems throughout the world there is a considerable amount of time and effort associated with regulating and controlling the versions of the application modules used with the handheld device.

Example systems and methods to configure a field device in a control system are herein described. In accordance with a first exemplary aspect of the invention directed to a control system for controlling a process or safety condition the control system includes a field device coupled to the process and arranged to adjust the process condition. A sensor is coupled to the process and arranged to monitor the process for an occurrence of an event trigger associated with the process condition. The control system also includes a wireless adapter operatively coupled to the field device a remote device coupled to a wireless communication network and capable of storing one or more application modules and a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device includes a processor a memory device a wireless network communication module and a wireless direct communication module. The wireless network communication module is coupled to the processor and permits wireless communication between the mobile computing device and the remote memory device. The wireless direct communication module is coupled to the processor and permits direct wireless communication between the mobile computing device and the wireless adapter. The control system also includes an application module received from the remote device via the wireless communication network. When executed on the processor the application module permits the mobile computing device to configure the field device via the wireless direct communication module.

In accordance with a second exemplary aspect of the invention directed to a control system having a field device for controlling a process or safety condition the control system includes a mobile computing device having a processor for facilitating the configuration of the field device a remote device coupled to a wireless communication network and capable of storing one or more application modules a wireless adapter operatively coupled to the field device and a wireless direct communication module capable of facilitating wireless direct communication between the mobile computing device and the field device. The control system also includes an application module received by the mobile computing device from the wireless communication network via the wireless communication network module wherein when the application module is executed on the processor of the mobile computing device the application module configures the field device via wireless direct communication established between the wireless adapter and the mobile computing device.

In accordance with a third exemplary aspect of the invention directed to a mobile computing device for configuring a field device of a control system wherein the field device is capable of wireless communication the mobile computing device comprises a processor for facilitating the configuration of the field device a memory device coupled to the processor a wireless network communication module permitting wireless network communication on a wireless communication network and a wireless direct communication module permitting wireless direct communication between the mobile computing device and the field device. The mobile computing device also includes an application module received via the wireless network communication module and when the application module is executed on the processor of the mobile computing device the application module configures the field device via wireless direct communication established between the field device and the mobile computing device.

In accordance with a fourth exemplary aspect of the invention directed to a mobile computing device for configuring a field device of a control system wherein the field device is capable of wireless communication the mobile computing device comprises a processor for facilitating the configuration of the field device and a wireless direct communication module that enables wireless direct communication between the mobile computing device and the field device. The mobile computing device also includes an application module which when executed on the processor configures the field device via wireless direct communication established between the field device and the mobile computing device and an interface module including a display screen for facilitating interaction with the application module.

In further accordance with any one or more of the foregoing first second third and fourth exemplary aspects a control system and or mobile computing device may further include any one or more of the following preferred forms.

In one preferred form the mobile computing device includes a memory coupled to the processor and the application module is stored in the memory.

In another preferred form the mobile computing device includes a message received via the wireless network communication module wherein the message includes information associated with the application module.

In another preferred form the wireless adapter is integrated within the circuitry of the field device.

In another preferred form the wireless adapter is internally or externally attached to the field device.

In another preferred form the mobile computing device includes a positioning module capable of attaining the geographical or physical location of the mobile computing device.

In another preferred form the application module is associated with the geographical or physical location of the mobile computing device and or the geographical or physical location of the field device.

In an example process plant is shown to include a process control safety control node which may include a process control system integrated with a safety system depicted within dotted lines . The safety system generally operates as a safety instrumented system SIS and may monitor the operation of the process control system to ensure the safe operation of the process plant . If necessary the safety system may override control of the process control system .

The process plant also includes one or more workstations or computing devices which may be any type of computer for example. Each workstation may include a processor a memory device and or a user interface such as a display monitor and or keyboard that are accessible to control system personnel. The workstation is shown connected to the process control safety control node and to an external memory device via a common communication line or bus . The communication bus may be implemented using any desired bus based or non bus based hardware hardwired or wireless communication structure or suitable communication protocol such as an Ethernet protocol. Both process control system devices and safety system devices are operatively connected together via the bus structure which may be provided on a common backplane into which different process controllers and input output devices are attached.

The process plant also includes at least one process controller having a processor and one or more process control system input output I O devices . Each process control system I O device is communicatively connected to a set of process control related field devices illustrated in as controller field devices . The controller the I O devices and the field devices generally make up the process control system of the process control safety control node .

The process controller which may be by way of example only a DeltaV controller sold by Emerson Process Management or any other desired type of process controller is programmed to provide process control functionality using the I O devices and the field devices . In particular the processor of the controller implements or oversees one or more control processes or control strategies in cooperation with the field devices and the workstation to control the process plant or a portion of the process plant in any desired manner. The field devices may be any desired type such as sensors valves transmitters positioners etc. and may conform to any desired open proprietary or other communication or programming protocol including for example HART utilizing 4 20 ma signals as illustrated for the field devices any bus protocol such as the Foundation Fieldbus protocol as illustrated for the field devices or CAN Profibus and AS Interface protocols to name but a few. Similarly each of the I O devices may be any known type of process control I O device using any appropriate communication protocol.

The controller may be configured to implement the control process or the control strategy in any desired manner. For example the controller may implement a control strategy using what are commonly referred to as function blocks wherein each function block is a part or object of an overall control routine and operates in conjunction with other function blocks via communications called links to implement process control loops within the process control system . Function blocks typically perform one of an input function such as that associated with a transmitter a sensor or other process parameter measurement device a control function such as that associated with a control routine that performs PID fuzzy logic etc. control or an output function that controls the operation of some device such as a valve to perform some physical function within the process control system . Hybrids of these function blocks as well as other types of function blocks may also exist. While the description of the control system is provided herein using a function block control strategy that incorporates an object oriented programming paradigm the control strategy or control routines or control loops or control modules could also be implemented or designed using other conventions such as ladder logic or sequential function charts for example or using any other desired programming language or paradigm.

For the purposes of this disclosure the terms control strategy control routine control module control function block safety module safety logic module and control loop essentially denote a control program executed to control the process or safety system and these terms may be interchangeably used herein. However for the purposes of the following discussion the term control module will be used. It should further be noted that control module described herein may have parts thereof implemented or executed on by different controllers or other devices if so desired. In addition the control modules described herein to be implemented within the process control system and or the safety system may take any form including software firmware hardware and any combination thereof. For example the control modules which may be control routines or any part of a control procedure such as a subroutine or parts of a subroutine such as lines of code may be implemented in any desired software format such as using ladder logic sequential function charts control routine diagrams object oriented programming or any other software programming language or design paradigm. Likewise the control modules described herein may be hard coded into for example one or more EPROMs EEPROMs application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic controllers PLCs or any other hardware or firmware elements. The control modules may be designed using any design tools including graphical design tools or any other type of software hardware firmware programming or design tools.

One or more control modules which may be stored in a memory on the controller may be executed on the processor of the controller which is typically the case when these function blocks are used or associated with standard 4 20 ma devices and some types of smart field devices such as HART devices. The control modules may also be stored in other memory locations within the system or implemented by the field devices themselves which may be the case with Fieldbus devices.

The safety system of the process control safety control node includes one or more safety system logic solvers . Each of the logic solvers is a safety controller also invariably referred to as an I O device having a processor capable of executing safety logic modules . The safety logic modules which may be similar to the control modules may be stored in a memory device of one or both logic solvers . The logic solvers are communicatively connected to provide control signals to and or receive signals from safety system field devices . The safety controllers and the safety system field devices generally make up the safety system of .

The safety field devices may be any desired type of field device conforming to or using any known or desired communication protocol such as those mentioned above. In particular the field devices may be safety related field devices of the type that are conventionally controlled by a separate dedicated safety related control system such as a liquid level detector or an emergency shutdown ESD valve. In the process plant illustrated in the safety field devices are depicted as using a dedicated or point to point communication protocol such as the HART protocol while the safety field devices are illustrated as using a bus communication protocol such as a Fieldbus protocol. Generally the safety devices both the controllers and the safety system field devices used as part of the safety system will be rated as safety devices which typically means that these devices must go through a rating procedure to be rated by an appropriate body as a safety device.

The backplane indicated by a dashed line through the process controller the I O devices and the safety controllers is used to connect the process controller to the process control I O cards as well as to the safety controllers . The process controller is also communicatively coupled to the bus and operates as a bus arbitrator to enable each of the I O devices and the safety controllers to communicate with the workstation and or the memory device via the bus. The backplane also enables the safety controllers to communicate with one another and coordinate safety functions implemented by each of these devices to communicate data to one another or to perform other integrated functions.

A display module not shown may be stored in the memory of the workstation . However if desired the display module may be stored and executed in a different workstation or in another computing device associated with the process plant . The display module may be any type of interface that for example enables a user to manipulate data values for example perform reads or writes to thereby alter operation of the control or safety modules within either or both of the control system and the safety system . Thus if a write is specified to be made to the control module associated with the control system or to one of the field devices for example the display module enables that write to take place. Additionally if the write is specified to be made to the safety logic module associated with the safety system or to one of the field devices for example the display module enables that write to occur.

By and large the control system of the present invention is configured to respond to a target or an occurrence of an event trigger associated with a process condition. A controller includes one or more control modules that may be executed by one or more processors to control the process via one or more field devices coupled to the process. Process or safety information is attained by the one or more field devices and provided to control system personnel and or the controller wherein the process or safety system may be adjusted if necessary. For example in a level detecting process employing a liquid holding tank the controller may collaborate with one or more field devices to monitor the amount of liquid held within the tank and to control the amount of liquid retained within the tank by opening and or closing an inlet and or an outlet valve.

Proper management of the control system requires control system personnel to configure the system s field devices. Although the field devices are configured during initial set up of the control system or control loop periodic adjustments or reconfigurations of the field device are typically implemented. As such configuring a field device may include reconfiguring calibrating and recalibrating the field device. depicts an exemplary embodiment of the invention wherein a wireless computing device is utilized to configure a field device of a control system . In particular the wireless computing device is capable of communicating over a wireless communication network to a library database memory device client device server device or repository to obtain an application module for configuring the field device . The wireless computing device is also capable of communicating directly with the field device via a wireless adapter which facilitates the execution of the application module to configure the field device.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention an exemplary mobile computing device capable of wirelessly interacting with a field device of a control system is depicted in . In the following description references are made to the mobile computing device or a mobile telephony device. These terms are used to refer to a mobile device that is capable of downloading installing and running one or more application modules. The mobile computing device may commonly be referred to as a smartphone and may typically include one or more functions of a personal digital assistant PDA with a mobile phone. For example the mobile computing device may include the functionality of a portable media player digital camera video camera GPS navigation unit configuration device and or calibration device. The multi use mobile computing device may also include a user interface such as a keyboard and or a touch sensitive screen as well as a web browser capable of displaying standard and mobile optimized web pages and sites. The mobile computing device is also capable of high speed data access provided by Wi Fi and Mobile Broadband technology as well as obtaining and or interacting with telephony services and protocols such as TDMA CDMA GSM and VoIP telephony. Some examples of the mobile computing device include Blackberry iPhone iPad Nexus and the like.

The mobile computing device may include a processor operatively coupled to a mobile operating system MOS one or more communication modules a memory device application modules user interface modules and a positioning module . The mobile operating systems OS installed on the mobile computing device may include any type of operating system capable of operating a mobile computing device including and not limited to Google s Android Apple s iOS Nokia s Symbian RIM s BlackBerry OS Samsung s Bada Microsoft s Windows Phone Hewlett Packard s webOS and embedded Linux distributions such as MeeGo Maemo and Moblin.

The memory device of the mobile computing device may include a random access memory component RAM and a read only memory component ROM . Other memory components or types may also be included within the mobile computing device such as and not limited to programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM Flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM magneto resistive RAM MRAM and Phase change RAM P RAM PCM .

Stored on the memory of the mobile computing device may be one or more application modules capable of being executed by the processor . The application modules may be provided to the mobile computing device via the communication modules . In particular the application modules which may initially be stored on a remote device operatively coupled to the wireless communication network may be retrieved via a wireless network communication module from the remote device. The remote device may include a memory device or component capable of storing application modules such as a database client device server device or another mobile computing device. The wireless communication network may be a wide area network WAN such as a telecommunication network or the Internet which may utilize private and or public network transports. The telecommunication network may utilize fixed line networks and wireless networks and may also incorporate leased lines circuit switching packet switching and or cell relay to transmit information and or data hundreds and thousands of miles.

When the application module is executed on the processor of the mobile computing device the application module may perform one or more functions. For example the execution of a configuration module may facilitate configuring a particular field device for operation within the control system. Execution of another application module such as a calibration module may facilitate the calibration of a particular field device within the control system. While the functions of configuring and calibrating may include different steps similar steps may be common among the two functions. It is therefore to be understood that configuring may include calibrating and that calibrating may include configuring and that the functions of configuring and calibrating may be used interchangeably unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

A wireless direct communication module facilitates direct wireless communication between the mobile computing device and the particular field device of the control system. The wireless direct communicate module may configure a personal area network PAN or wireless personal area network WPAN to exclusively interconnect the mobile computing device to the particular field device. Bluetooth and Infrared Data Association IrDA may be used to wirelessly interconnect the mobile computing device and the particular field device. Other wireless communication protocols may also be utilized to establish the exclusive wireless communication between the mobile computing device and the particular field device for example Bluetooth smart ANT Wi Fi Direct near field communication and radio frequency identification RFID protocols.

The user interface modules of the mobile computing device facilitate interaction between control system personnel and the control system. In particular a user interface UI may include a keyboard and a display screen . The display screen may be responsive to touch and include one or more touch pads . Control personnel may interact with the execution of the application module by providing information such as inputs to the application module via the keyboard and display screen . Control personnel may also receive information such as outputs from the application module via the display screen . The information provided on the display screen may be manipulated by control personnel via the user interface . In particular various amounts and types of information may be compared arranged presented or displayed in various forms such as charts tables figures. The UI may also include a track pad track ball thumb wheel and the like which may be integrated and or incorporated with other user interface modules . Another user interface module may be a graphic user interface GUI such as a software module that may be stored in the memory of the mobile computing device . For clarity the GUI is depicted in as a separate module. However the GUI may be provided in any suitable form. For example the GUI may include a library of application modules that may be invoked via a predefined application programming interface API a script that the application may interpret at runtime or another separate application module.

The mobile computing device may also include a positioning module or mobile positioning unit MPU that incorporates a locating technology component such as networked based global positioning system GPS or manual entry by control system personnel to attain a geographic or physical location or position. In some instances the positioning module may operate as a component or a function of a Wi Fi communication module for example. Application modules attained by the mobile computing device may be associated with the geographical location of the mobile computing device and or the nearby field device. For example the application modules accessible via the wireless communication network may be associated with one or more geographical locations. When the mobile computing device attains the application module such as the configuration module or the calibration module from the wireless network the geographical location of the mobile computing device may be used to acquire a particular application module associated with the particular geographical location of the mobile computing device and or the field device located near the mobile computing device. In this way control system personnel may control the use of a particular application module with a particular field device by matching or associating compatible or applicable application modules with compatible or applicable field devices.

An embodiment of the wireless adapter utilized in cooperation with the mobile computing device during execution of the application module is shown in . The wireless computing device facilitates communication between the mobile computing device and the field device of the control system. The wireless adapter is operatively coupled to the field device and may be integrated within the circuitry of the field device or attached internally or externally to the field device see for example . The source of power for the wireless adapter may be provided by a battery or the field device. Common energy saving techniques may be employed to power the wireless adapter wherein timers sleep modes sensors and the like may be used. The wireless adapter includes a processor operatively coupled to a memory device a communication module an I O interface and an I O port .

The communication module of the wireless adapter includes a wireless direct communication module capable of cooperating with the wireless direct communication module of the mobile computing device to facilitate transmission of wireless information between the mobile computing device and the field device. When the mobile computing device executes an application module information may be transmitted between the mobile computing device and the field device via cooperation between the wireless direct communication module of the wireless adapter and the wireless direct communication module of the mobile computing device . That is the wireless adapter may exclusively interact with the mobile computing device via Bluetooth Bluetooth smart ANT IrDA Wi Fi Direct near field communication WPAN or radio frequency identification RFID protocols. While this embodiment of the invention describes the wireless adapter having a single wireless direct communication module it is contemplated that other embodiments of the invention may be practiced with wireless adapters that include a plurality of wireless direct communication modules that enable communication in accordance with a plurality of distinct wireless process communication protocols.

The memory device of the wireless adapter may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or any other type or component of electronic memory for example PROM EPROM Flash memory DRAM SRAM MRAM P RAM and PCM. Stored on the memory device of the wireless adapter may be one or more application modules . The application modules may be received from the mobile computing device via cooperation between the wireless direct communication module of the wireless adapter and the wireless direct communication module of the mobile computing device . In addition to the application module being executable by the mobile computing device the processor of the wireless adapter may execute the application module wherein one or more functions such as configuring or calibrating a particular field device of the control system may be performed. Information related to the execution of the application module by the processor of the wireless adapter may be wirelessly communicated directly to the mobile computing device via cooperation of the wireless direct communication module of the wireless adapter and the wireless direct communication module of the mobile computing device .

The wireless adapter may include another communication module such as a wired network communication module to facilitate wired communication between the field device and the controller of the control system. The wired network communication module is capable of providing a communication medium between a particular field device associated with the wireless adapter and the network communication bus of the control system. An I O interface and or an I O port may be coupled to one or more components of the particular field device such as a sensor or valve wherein related control and or data information may be provided to the wired network communication module .

The wireless adapter may also include a positioning module not shown or mobile positioning unit MPU that incorporates a locating technology component such as networked based global positioning system GPS or manual entry by control system personnel to attain a geographic or physical location or position of the wireless adapter. In some instances the positioning module may operate as a component or a function of a Wi Fi communication module for example. Application modules stored on the memory of the wireless adapter or executed by the processor of the wireless adapter may be required to be associated with the location of the wireless adapter and or the field device. For example application modules including an association with the geographical location of the wireless adapter and or field device located near the wireless adapter may be stored in the memory of the wireless adapter and or executed by the processor of the wireless adapter. In this way control system personnel may control the use of a particular application module with a particular wireless adapter or field device by matching or associating compatible or applicable application modules with compatible or applicable wireless adapters or field devices.

It is apparent from the description above that a mobile computing device such as a smartphone for example may be utilized by control system personnel to configure a field device within a control system. The user interface module of the mobile computing device may provide a touch sensitive graphic on the display screen. The graphic provides a user friendly interface for control system personnel to interact with the application module for configuring the field device. Information previously displayed in a seemingly cryptic format at the field device via LED and LCD peripherals often requires codes and charts to decipher the acronyms and patterns of LEDs displayed on the peripherals. This information may now be clearly and graphically presented and manipulated on the screen of the wireless computing device. By reducing or eliminating the LED and LCD peripherals at the field device associated costs and power consumption related to these peripheral devices can be significantly reduced. The wireless capability of the mobile computing device and the wireless adapter allows for messages or notifications associated with the application module to be received from the control system. The messages or notices sent to the mobile computing device may include information advising that an update to a particular application module is available. The messages which may also include the updated application module may be sent automatically to the mobile computing device from a control or distribution device. The messages may also be sent in response to a request for such information transmitted from the mobile computing device. The control or distribution device may provide for a single source to be utilized for storing the application modules and distributing the application modules via individual or broadcast messaging. The single source of application modules assists in ensuring the control and distribution of application modules for use within the control system. The wireless aspects of the invention also avoids the inherit process and time constraints associated with known handheld devices that must be physically connected to the source of the application modules as well as the field device.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

For example the control system may include but is not limited to any combination of a LAN a MAN a WAN a mobile a wired or wireless network a private network or a virtual private network. Moreover while one workstation is illustrated in to simplify and clarify the description it is understood that any number of workstations or user interfaces are supported and can be implemented.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a plant environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a plant or office environment . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Still further for the purposes of illustration only the figures depict preferred embodiments of a configuration system for a field device within a control system. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the discussion above that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

