---

title: System and method for providing international coupon-less discounts
abstract: The systems and methods of the disclosure allow user from various countries to take advantage of offers when they are traveling internationally. Once the purchase associated with the offer is made, the transaction information may be processed by the system, such that, the credit and debit associated with the purchase are transmitted to the transaction account and the merchant. The transaction information may be further processed to determine whether the particular transaction is eligible for a reward. Where the transaction is eligible for a reward, the credit and debit associated with reward are transmitted to the transaction account and the sponsoring entity. The reward may be provided in any suitable currency or in various currencies based on the parameters governing the reward offer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542690&OS=09542690&RS=09542690
owner: AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES COMPANY, INC.
number: 09542690
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120404
---
The present application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 13 411 281 entitled System and Method for Providing Coupon less Discounts Based on a User Broadcasted Message filed Mar. 2 2012. The 281 application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 13 153 890 entitled System and Method for Administering Marketing Programs filed Jun. 6 2011. The 890 Application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 12 857 389 entitled System and Method for E Mail Based Rewards filed on Aug. 16 2010. The 389 application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 11 779 734 entitled Loyalty incentive Program Using Transaction Cards filed on Jul. 18 2007. The 734 application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 60 831 457 filed Jul. 18 2006. The present application is also a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 13 021 237 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Location Based Coupon Less Offers to Registered Card Members filed on Feb. 4 2011. The present application is also a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 13 188 693 entitled System and Method for Coupon Less Product Level Discounts filed on Jul. 22 2011. The disclosures of each are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for any purpose.

The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for providing marketing partners an automated platform for managing promotions and more particularly to systems and methods for establishing and maintaining loyalty incentive programs and other promotions that permit consumers to receive discounts and notices of discounts without requiring a coupon to be redeemed.

Loyalty incentive or reward programs are typically used as a form of highly customizable and targeted marketing. A loyalty program provider often attracts customers who sign up for a loyalty program. Shopping benefits such as discounts are offered to the customers by the provider. The provider then markets to merchants that the provider can bring customers to the merchant. For example a loyalty program provider may approach a merchant e.g. the clothing retailer GAP Inc. with an offer to bring customers to the GAP in exchange for a fee. The provider would then send a solicitation via email or regular mail to its customers offering for example a 10 discount coupon that may be redeemed at the GAP on a particular day. The success of the solicitation can be assessed based on the number of coupons redeemed.

In such a loyalty solicitation the merchant would usually pay the loyalty program provider a percentage of the sales e.g. 10 that result from the solicitation. The merchant benefits from the increased sales. The loyalty program provider benefits from the commission that it receives and the customers benefit from the received discount.

There are several areas that could be improved in such traditional loyalty programs. For example such traditional programs suffer from leakage. Leakage occurs when the merchant does not fully report sales resulting from the solicitation. Leakage results in loss revenues for the loyalty program provider. Further administrative marketing programs such as coupon redemption is costly. For example setting up and maintaining offers eligibility criteria redemption criteria reporting criteria and other functions of a promotion system traditionally requires business analysts of the reward program platform provider to manually configure the platform. What is needed is a marketing and promotions platform that enables intelligent automated e.g. via application programming interfaces interfaces with a reward platform.

In various embodiments a computing platform includes application programming interfaces that enable third parties to create configure manage modify update delete report on and enhance reward offers and marketing programs. For example a program provider may wish to create a custom application partner application that serves as a front end or interface with the computing platform. The partner application accesses the computing platform via various application programming interfaces APIs . In various embodiments a marketing program is set up and merchants are associated with the marketing program. Offers are created and associated with the program and or the merchant and customers are offered and signed up for the offers.

In various embodiments an automated marketing system comprises a network interface communicating with a memory the memory communicating with a processor for automated marketing and storing a computer program and a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs and the processor when executing a computer program performs operations. The operations include receiving by the processor and via an offer setup API a first offer setup request wherein the offer setup API is from the plurality of APIs parsing by the processor the offer set up request into a plurality of first offer parameters validating by the processor at least one of the offer setup request and the first offer parameters in response to the validating notifying by the processor a first approver of the offer setup request receiving by the processor and from the first approver an approval of the offer set up request saving by the processor and to the memory a first offer comprising the first offer parameters wherein the first offer is associated with a first marketing program and determining by the processor a first population comprising a plurality of transaction accounts that comply with first offer criteria wherein the first offer parameters comprise the first offer criteria.

In various embodiments the first offer criteria comprise at least one of a customer identifier a customer demographic a customer location spend frequency a spend threshold a spend history an award cap a tiered reward requirement a product identifier a product category a stockkeeping unit SKU a universal product code UPC a QR code a merchant a merchant type an industry a merchant location.

In various embodiments operations performed by the system include receiving via an enrollment API from the plurality of APIs a first enrollment setup request validating the first enrollment setup request wherein the validating comprises determining that the first enrollment setup request is associated with at least one of the first offer and a second offer receiving an approval of the first enrollment setup request from at least one of the first approver and the second approver parsing the first enrollment setup request into first enrollment parameters and saving the first offer enrollment parameters to the memory and receiving a first offer acceptance from a first user associated with a first transaction account from the first population.

In various embodiments a method for operating a loyalty incentive program includes the following steps a list of participating merchants is received a list of participating account holders is received a record of charge corresponding to a purchase by an account holder customer is received from a merchant and upon receipt an account of the account holder customer is debited by the amount of the charge a merchant identification contained in the record of charge is compared with the list of participating merchants and an account holder identification contained in the record of charge is compared with the list of participating account holders. If the account holder is a participating account holder and the merchant is a participating merchant then it is determined whether the record of charge qualifies for a rebate credit. If the record of charge qualifies for a rebate credit then the rebate credit is provided to an account of the account holder customer.

In various embodiments a method includes the following steps participation of a merchant in a loyalty incentive program is solicited an offer from a participating merchant is received enrollment of an account holder customer to the loyalty incentive program is solicited the offer is provided to an enrolled account holder customer information is received which relates to a purchase by the enrolled account holder customer in accordance with the offer from the participating merchant an amount of a discount in accordance with the offer is calculated and the amount of the discount is provided to a transaction account provider so that an account of the enrolled account holder customer is credited in the amount of the discount.

In various embodiments a method for managing a rewards program includes monitoring spend data associated with a transaction account. The spend data may be analyzed and compared to a set of criteria spend levels at particular merchants spend level on classes of products spend level in a particular region . The transaction account may then be assigned to one or more transaction account populations based on spend data and criteria. The spend data associated with the transaction account is also analyzed to determine whether a beneficiary of the transaction account qualifies for a reward in accordance with a rewards program. Where the spend data complies with the rules governing the rewards program a reward e.g. a credit of monetary value to the transaction account a merchant prepaid account a discount a credit of loyalty points is provided to a beneficiary of the transaction account. The spend data activities associated with the transaction accounts of the population are also monitored. Where the activities comply with criteria associated with the transaction account population a rewards offer an offer of a credit of monetary value to the transaction account a merchant prepaid account a discount a credit of loyalty points is sent to owner of transaction accounts associated with the population.

In various embodiments the criteria may be established by a merchant or a prepaid account issuer. Enrollment in a transaction account population may be automatic or may include registration by the owner of the transaction account. Further features of various embodiments as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present disclosure includes systems methods and articles for providing location based coupon less offers based upon a location of a participant e.g. card member CM . A location of a CM may be determined based upon one or more of a travel itinerary a GPS a proximity of a mobile communication device to a cellular base station and or a zip code. A CM may register to receive a coupon less offer. An offer from a merchant registered to provide coupon less offers may be transmitted to a mobile communication device based upon the location. An offer once accepted by a CM may be matched to a record of charge associated with a transaction account held by the CM. A credit may be applied to the CM s transaction account and a debit may be applied to a transaction account of the registered merchant. A credit may be applied based upon a transaction complying with one or more criteria specified by a registered merchant for a coupon less offer. An exemplary criterion comprises a spend level on a class of products. One or more offer categories and or one or more offer category classes may be transmitted to the mobile communication device based upon the CM s location.

Systems and methods for managing a product level discount are provided. In various embodiments a product level discount may be managed by a computer based system during a transaction. The system may receive a transaction identifier associated with a transaction where the transaction identifier comprises a transaction value a customer account identifier a merchant identifier and a product identifier. The product identifier may be assessed by the computer based system to determine whether the transaction qualifies for a rebate credit in accordance with a predetermined offer. Furthermore a value is determined of any rebate credit based on the transaction information and the predetermined offer. In an exemplary embodiment the computer based system for managing a product level discount comprises a network interface communicating with a memory where the memory communicates with a processor for managing a product level discount and the processor when executing a computer program is configured to receive by the processor the transaction identifier associated with a transaction assess the product identifier to determine whether the transaction qualifies for the rebate credit in accordance with the predetermined offer and determine the value of the rebate credit.

The product level discount management may include determining whether the transaction qualifies for the rebate credit based on at least one of the customer account identifier and the merchant identifier. Furthermore the product level discount management may also include verifying by the computer based system that the transaction has been completed and applying the rebate credit to a customer account associated with the customer identifier after completion of the transaction. The product identifier could be a stock keeping unit SKU code. The KU code may be the basis for qualifying for the rebate credit. Furthermore a merchant associated with the merchant identifier which is part of the transaction does not need to be informed of the application of the rebate credit to the customer account. From the viewpoint of a merchant a product level discount may be applied post transaction and the merchant may have no knowledge of the applied discount. In various embodiments the product level discount management may include applying the rebate credit to the transaction at the point of sale and determining authorization of the transaction after the applying the rebate credit.

The predefined offer may be sent to the user associated with the customer account identifier to incentivize completion of the transaction. The determination of who receives the predefined offer can be based at least in part on the transaction history of the user. Furthermore the qualification for the rebate credit may be based at least in part on an aggregate transaction history of the user associated with the customer account identifier. Also the qualification for the rebate credit may be based at least in part on the product identifier corresponding to at least one of a particular product or a vendor. A user or customer in this case can receive the predefined offer in a variety of ways. For example the customer can also receive the predefined offer on a portable electronic device. Moreover in various embodiments the customer account identifier may include a unique identifier associated with the portable electronic device. The unique identifier associated with the portable electronic device may be used to match the transaction to the customer account identifier.

In various embodiments the systems and methods described herein provide an offer to a user that may be accepted by the user through an action by the user. The action may be a broadcast through a social media channel. For example the broadcast may be a tweet from a Twitter account that comprises a particular offer identifier. The offer identifier may comprise particular elements associated with a merchant product brand account issuer loyalty program provider rewards and or the like. The parameters of the offer may define that the broadcast comprise an offer identifier and may require that a user take subsequent action to fulfill the offer. For example once a CM has associated with offer with a CM s transaction account the CM may be required to spend at a particular level with a sponsoring merchant buy a particular product designated by a sponsoring manufacturer or spend in a particular region designated by a sponsoring organization. The systems and methods described herein may also be configured to monitor one or more broadcast channels identify the source of a broadcast identify transaction accounts associated with the source evaluate transaction data associated with the transaction account and provide benefits to the source and or the transaction account.

In various embodiments systems methods and computer readable medium are provided for managing a rewards program. These systems methods and computer readable medium are configured to cause a computer based system to perform operations comprising receiving by the computer based system transaction information comprising transaction account information and merchant information parsing by the computer based system the transaction information into a merchant portion and a transaction account portion transmitting by the computer based system a transaction e.g. purchase credit to a merchant associated with the merchant information based on the merchant portion analyzing by the computer based system and in response to the transaction credit the merchant portion against a plurality of offers to determine an identified offer wherein a transaction associated with transaction information corresponds to the identified offer and transmitting by the computer based system reward instructions in response to the merchant portion corresponding to the identified offer.

The systems may further provide reward instructions comprising a reward amount provided to a transaction account and a reward cost associated with a sponsoring entity. The sponsoring entity may be at least one of a transaction account issuer and the merchant.

The system may be further configured to transmit the reward instructions to a global clearing and settlement module and or an issuer account payable module in response to the sponsoring entity being the transaction account issuer and or transmit the reward instructions to a global clearing and settlement module and an merchant account payable module in response to the sponsoring entity being the merchant.

In the context of international transactions the system may be configured to analyze the transaction information to determine the geographic region of the merchant associated with the transaction information wherein the geographic region is at least one of United States and another jurisdiction. The debit is transmitted through a first account payable module in response to the geographic region being the United States or through a second account payable module in response to the geographic region being the other jurisdiction.

In various embodiments the systems may be operated by a transaction account issuer or by a third party.

The present disclosure is directed to a system and method for providing loyalty incentives to an account holder customer and operating a loyalty incentive program. The present system is now described in more detail herein in terms of an exemplary embodiment. This is for convenience only and is not intended to limit the application of the present disclosure. While specific configurations and arrangements are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. In fact after reading the following description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the following exemplary embodiments. A person skilled in the pertinent art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the pertinent art that this disclosure can also be employed in a variety of other applications.

The terms user end user consumer customer participant and or the plural form of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to those persons or entities capable of accessing using being affected by and or benefiting from the tool that the present disclosure provides for the rewards program described herein. This includes both individual consumers and corporate customers such as for example small businesses.

The term user consumer cardmember CM and or the plural form of these terms shall mean any person entity government organization business machine associated with a transaction account regardless of whether a physical card is associated with the account. For example the cardmember and or CM may include a transaction account owner an transaction account user an account affiliate a child account user a subsidiary account user a beneficiary of an account a custodian of an account or any other person or entity affiliated or associated with a transaction account.

Furthermore the terms service provider service establishment business or merchant may be used interchangeably with each other and shall mean any person entity distributor system software and or hardware that is a provider broker and or any other entity in the distribution chain of goods or services. For example a service provider may be a retail store a hotel company an airline company a travel agency an on line merchant or the like.

A transaction account as used herein refers to an account associated with an open account or a closed account system as described below . The transaction account may exist in a physical or non physical embodiment. For example a transaction account may be distributed in non physical embodiments such as an account number frequent flyer account telephone calling account or the like. Furthermore a physical embodiment of a transaction account may be distributed as a financial instrument.

A financial transaction instrument may be traditional plastic transaction cards titanium containing or other metal containing transaction cards clear and or translucent transaction cards foldable or otherwise unconventionally sized transaction cards radio frequency enabled transaction cards or other types of transaction cards such as credit charge debit pre paid or stored value cards or any other like financial transaction instrument. A financial transaction instrument may also have electronic and communications functionality. Such functionality may be enabled for example by a network of electronic circuitry that is printed or otherwise incorporated onto or within the transaction instrument and typically referred to as a smart card a fob having a transponder and an REID reader and or near field communication NFC technologies. For more information regarding NEC refer to the following specifications all of which are incorporated by reference herein ISO IEC 18092 ECMA 340 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol 1 NFCIP 1 ISO IEC 21481 ECMA 352 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol 2 NFCIP 2 and EMV 4.2 available at http www.emvco.com default.aspx.

 Open cards are financial transaction cards that are generally accepted at different merchants. Examples of open cards include the American Express Visa MasterCard and Discover cards which may be used at many different retailers and other businesses. In contrast closed cards are financial transaction cards that may be restricted to use in a particular store a particular chain of stores or a collection of affiliated stores. One example of a closed card is a pre paid gift card that may only be purchased at and only be accepted at a clothing retailer such as the clothing retailer Gap Inc.

Stored value cards are forms of transaction instruments associated with transaction accounts wherein the stored value cards provide cash equivalent value that may be used within an existing payment transaction infrastructure. Stored value cards are frequently referred to as gift pre paid or cash cards in that money is deposited in the account associated with the card before use of the card is allowed. For example if a customer deposits ten dollars of value into the account associated with the stored value card the card may only be used for payments together totaling no more than ten dollars.

With regard to use of a transaction account users may communicate with service providers in person e.g. at the box office telephonically or electronically e.g. from a user computer via the Internet . During the interaction the service provider may offer goods and or services to the user. The service provider may also offer the user the option of paying for the goods and or services using any number of available transaction accounts. Furthermore the transaction accounts may be used by the service provider as a form of identification of the user. The service provider may have a computing unit implemented in the form of a computer server although other implementations are possible.

In general transaction accounts may be used for transactions between the user and service provider through any suitable communication means such as for example a telephone network intranet the global public Internet a point of interaction device e.g. a point of sale POS device personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone kiosk etc. online communications off line communications wireless communications and or the like.

An account account number or account code as used herein may include any device code number letter symbol digital certificate smart chip digital signal analog signal biometric or other identifier indicia suitably configured to allow a consumer to access interact with or communicate with a financial transaction system. The account number may optionally be located on or associated with any financial transaction instrument e.g. rewards charge credit debit prepaid telephone embossed smart magnetic stripe bar code transponder or radio frequency card .

The account number may be distributed and stored in any form of plastic electronic magnetic radio frequency RF NFC wireless audio and or optical device capable of transmitting or downloading data from itself to a second device. A customer account number may be for example a sixteen digit credit card number. Each credit card issuer has its own numbering system such as the fifteen digit numbering system used by American Express Company of New York N.Y.

A merchant account number may be for example any number or alpha numeric characters that identify a particular merchant for purposes of card acceptance account reconciliation reporting and the like.

It should be noted that the transfer of information in accordance with various embodiments may be done in a format recognizable by a merchant system or account issuer. In that regard by way of example the information may be transmitted from an REID device to an RFID reader or from the REID reader to the merchant system in magnetic stripe or multi track magnetic stripe format.

Because of the proliferation of devices using magnetic stripe format the standards for coding information in magnetic stripe format were standardized by the International Organization for Standardization in ISO IEC 7811 n characteristics for identification cards which are incorporated herein by reference. The ISO IEC 7811 standards specify the conditions for conformance physical characteristics for the card warpage and surface distortions and the magnetic stripe area location height and surface profile roughness adhesion wear and resistance to chemicals the signal amplitude performance characteristics of the magnetic stripe the encoding specification including technique MFM angle of recording bit density flux transition spacing variation and signal amplitude the data structure including track format use of error correction techniques user data capacity for ID 1 ID 2 and ID 3 size cards and decoding techniques and the location of encoded tracks.

Typically magnetic stripe information is formatted in three tracks. Certain industry information must be maintained on certain portions of the tracks while other portions of the tracks may have open data fields. The contents of each track and the formatting of the information provided to each track is controlled by the ISO IEC 7811 standard. For example the information must typically be encoded in binary. Track is usually encoded with user information i.e. name in alphanumeric format. Track is typically comprised of discretionary and nondiscretionary data fields. In one example the nondiscretionary field may comprise 19 characters and the discretionary field may comprise 13 characters. Track is typically reserved for financial transactions and includes enciphered versions of the user s personal identification number country code current units amount authorized per cycle subsidiary accounts and restrictions.

As such where information is provided in accordance with various embodiments it may be provided in magnetic stripe track format. For example the counter values authentication tags and encrypted identifiers may be forwarded encoded in all or a portion of a data stream representing data encoded in for example track or track formats.

Persons skilled in the relevant arts will understand the breadth of the terms used herein and that the exemplary descriptions provided are not intended to be limiting of the generally understood meanings attributed to the foregoing terms.

It is noted that references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with various embodiments it would be within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

In various embodiments and with references to a flow diagram illustrates operation of system . A transaction account provider TAP such as American Express Travel Related Services Company Inc. of New York N.Y. operates a registered card platform RCP to implement a reward or incentive program sometimes referred to herein a registered card program which does not require paper coupons for fulfillment of merchant offers to account holders. RCP provides the capability to match merchant SE or service establishment offers and account holder CM customer information with card transactions for an account holder customer s purchases or returns at a merchant participating in the registered card program. As a result of such matching capability RCP allows TAP to fulfill a merchant s discount offer applicable to account holder customer s purchase by providing a rebate credit in accordance with the discount offer on the account holder customer s transaction account statement. In various embodiments RCP includes or is accessible by a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs that enable a merchant marketing partner or other entity to define custom applications that interface with RCP in order to define offers rewards offer eligibility etc. Embodiment of such APIs will be disclosed below. If a return is made on a purchase for which a rebate credit was previously provided RCP also allows the TAP to debit the account holder customer the amount of the rebate credit and credit the same back to the merchant.

TAP may collaborate with a loyalty program provider to produce the reward or incentive program. While as used herein loyalty program provider LPP refers to an external third party provider of marketing packages that may be provided to CMs in accordance with various embodiments TAP may internally administer loyalty programs such as restaurant or travel marketing program. Therefore to distinguish from programs provided by an LPP TAPs internal loyalty programs will be referred to herein as a TAP marketing program or simply a TAP program. In the figures the service mark TailorMade is used to refer to an example loyalty program offered by an LPP. Accordingly although embodiments will be described herein in the environment of such collaboration between a TAP and an LPP one of skill in the pertinent art s will recognize that a registered card program can be implemented with or without a loyalty program provider or other types of providers without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

As shown in in step a merchant enrolls and submits a discount offer to a loyalty program or other marketing program. These offers are compiled in an offer database . In step an account holder customer CM registers their transaction account managed by TAP such that CM s account is registered to the registered card program thereby permitting the registered CM to receive coupon less discounts in the form of rebate credits via CM s account statement . Information relating to CM s now registered card is compiled in enrollee database . When CM shops and makes purchases or returns at a merchant using their financial transaction card TAP will receive a record of charge ROC for the transaction which may be stored in a card transaction database . The ROC may be any information that can be used to identify a card transaction. In step matching is performed by RCP . In the case of a CM purchase the CM s statement is credited and the merchant s account is debited in accordance with the merchant s offer as illustrated in step . Further description of providing a credit to the CM and a debit to the merchant in step is described below with reference to .

As shown in output file is processed by TAP to provide line item rebate credits on CM statement for each purchase subject to a discount offer available pursuant to a marketing program. For example CM statement includes a TailorMade rebate credit of 71 for an original charge amount of 355 at participating merchant Acme Clothing. Similarly a credit of 37 under TAP s restaurant marketing program is provided for an original charge amount of 370 at participating merchant Acme Food. Merchant debit statement includes line item debits in accordance with CM s rebate credits also as line items for each marketing program. The debit for the merchant may be equal or unequal to the rebate credit to CM. For example for Acme Clothing the merchant debit of 71 is equal to CM credit of 71 whereas the debit for Acme Food is 74 corresponding to the sum of the rebate credit to CM and a commission or service fee of 10 of the original charge amount imposed by TAP for performing the services described herein. Although not shown here a similar commission may be imposed by LPP and or TAP on Acme Clothing s account and incorporated as part of a line item debit on its statement. Alternatively such commission may be a separate line item from the line item for the merchant s debit for CM s rebate credit.

The CM may be provided the option to enroll more than one card and link each second and additional card to a primary enrolled card which is illustrated in as linking . Linking provides the capability to assign a single registration identification to the CM and provides the CM the flexibility to make a purchase on any of the linked cards with discount payments appearing on the CM s statement for the primary card. The linked cards may be all Prop cards all GNS cards or a mixture of Prop and GNS cards. Further the linked cards assigned to a single registration identification may be corporate cards personal cards or a mixture thereof. The registration process may also include the capability of batch enrollment of a plurality of cards of one or more CMs in a single instance. Information relating to enrolled CMs is stored in enrollee database . Information relating to linking of a plurality of cards to the CM is also contained therein. Information from the enrollee database may then be provided to RCE as described above with reference to .

The CM or a non cardmember may also be offered the option to enroll based on an action taken by the CM or non cardmember that is not an enrollment activity. For example offers may be communicated by through various channels that communicate offers to CMs and non cardmembers. These offers may require that the CM or non cardmember take an affirmative action e.g. an action through a social media website to be eligible for an offer. Once the CM has taken the affirmative action solicitation may provide enrollment information to the CM or non cardmember or automatically enroll a CM. Where the affirmative action is taken by a CM who is not enrolled with the RCE solicitation may offer the CM the option to enroll or may automatically enroll the CM and communicate the enrollment to the CM through a suitable channel e.g. e mail text message social media message and or the like . Where a non cardmember takes the affirmative action solicitation may present the non cardmember with the option of apply for a transaction account to take advantage of the offer associated with the affirmative action. If the transaction account for the non cardmember is approved the non cardmember becomes a new CM and may automatically be enrolled through enrollment or may have to manually enroll through enrollment . Once enrolled the transaction card may be used to take advantage of the offer associated with the affirmative action.

In various embodiments illustrated in information on participating merchants and their offers are divided into separate databases i.e. an offer database and a merchant database and provided to RCE . As described above TAP may collaborate with a loyalty program provider LPP to deliver loyalty incentives to the CM in the form of coupon less discounts. Accordingly offer database and merchant database may be populated by TAP and or LPP with offers and merchants associated with TAP s marketing programs and LPP s marketing programs respectively. TAP may screen merchants participating in LPP s marketing programs prior to accepting and storing them in merchant database . TAP s program administrator not shown may upload merchants and offers to the respective databases along with other information associating merchants and offers with one or more marketing programs. In various embodiments as discussed below TAP s program administrator may specify offers and programs reward criteria eligibility criteria reporting options tracking options triggered alerts etc. via API s of RCP .

For marketing programs administered by TAP RCE may include its own calculation of discount for purchases made by registered CMs with merchants participating in TAP s marketing program. Further LPP may be responsible for calculation of discount for purchases made at merchants participating in marketing programs administered by LPP . A merchant may be a participating merchant for a plurality of externally administered and or internally administered marketing programs. Therefore these offer and merchant databases may include a field identifying each offer and merchant to one or more marketing programs as further described below with reference to .

Another input to RCE are merchant ROCs which may be compiled as a daily transaction file and stored in transaction database shown in . RCE performs transaction matching of merchant ROCs with enrolled CM information from enrollee database and participating merchant and offer information from respective databases and . Further detail regarding this matching will be described below with reference to . Matched transactions relating to loyalty programs administered by loyalty program provider are provided as an output file to LPP for discount calculation whereby LPP returns an output file represented here as arrow which includes the discount amount or rebate credit similar to the incentive payment field in output file described above with reference to . This process of discount calculation by LPP and exchange of information thereof with RCE is discussed below with reference to .

A problem to be overcome in implementing a loyalty incentive program as described herein is how to deal with returns. For example assume an account holder makes a purchase for 100 and receives a 10 discount also called a rebate or incentive on his or her account if the account holder then returns the purchased goods to the merchant it is desirable to be able to ascertain whether the purchase involved an incentive so that a return credit can be made in the appropriate amount. This problem is solved by providing a mechanism for dealing with returns. In various embodiments of RCE has the capability to process returns on purchases for which a registered CM may have been provided a rebate credit pursuant to a marketing program. If a rebate credit had been previously provided then processing of returns includes providing a credit to the merchant for the earlier debited amount of the rebate credit provided to the CM and providing a corresponding debit to the CM of the earlier rebate credit. Processing of returns is similar to the transaction processing of purchases and is described in greater detail below with reference to . Accordingly output file from RCE may include return transactions whereby loyalty program provider calculates a negative discount or a discount reversal amount for each eligible return. Eligible returns may be identified based on a stock keeping unit SKU associated with the purchase or based on the date of the purchase and the amount of the purchase i.e. backtrack discounts . Logic associated with matching prior purchases with returns by means other than SKUs is described in further detail with reference to .

RCE has the capability to convert the discount amount to an equivalent of membership reward points which may be redeemable in accordance with membership rewards program. Typically a membership rewards program offers goods or travel packages in exchange for membership reward points. Moreover the discount amount may be a combination of a monetary credit and an equivalent of reward points. To implement such conversions as well as to support service fee calculation etc. RCE may include a configuration table . Configuration table may include fields for each marketing program and corresponding information for converting the calculated discount i.e. the rebate credit between a monetary credit and or an equivalence in membership rewards points shown as CM Pts . Further since a discount offer may be represented in units of monetary amount of or percent off a purchase price or in terms of membership rewards points then for internally calculated discounts 432 RCE uses configuration table to match program merchant and conversion terms shown as SE to convert the offer terms to the desired units for discount calculation. Configuration table may also have a field for TAP s service fees for each program and participating merchants and service fees may be in units such percent of purchase or monetary amount shown as TAP . Further since a merchant may be submitting the same offer for more than one marketing program configuration table includes a priority field that is used to identify repeated offers and ensure that the CM receives only a single rebate credit on a purchase that is eligible to receive a discount pursuant to multiple marketing programs.

The calculated discount or discount reversal if relating to a return is provided to TAP settlement systems for transactions on Prop registered cards or to GNS settlement systems for transactions on GNS registered cards. An AR system of TAP settlement systems processes the discount amount and provides the rebate credit as a monetary credit or an equivalence in reward points or both on CMs credit statement. If the rebate credit includes membership reward points then information relating the rebate credit is also provided to membership rewards for appropriate record keeping for that CM. AP systems of TAP settlement systems processes the merchant debit in accordance with CM s rebate credit as well as any service fee charged by TAP for providing the services described herein. Further detail regarding processing of matched transactions via TAP settlement systems is described below with reference to . GNS settlement systems include U.S. submissions global clearing and settlement GC S and one or more issuers . Global clearing and settlement may be considered a repository for RCE s matched transactions associated with GNS cards so as to permit each GNS issuer to retrieve their respective GNS card transaction information including information of the discount and any service fees charged by TAP. GNS issuers may then use this information to provide a rebate credit to CMs accounts managed by issuers and to provide a debit to participating merchants in a similar manner as described above with reference to . Further details regarding application of the registered card program to GNS registered cards is described below with reference to .

In various embodiments system may be configured to process transactions and associated rewards based on the entity sponsoring the reward. For example transactions associated with a transaction account issuer sponsored reward e.g. a reward funded by a transaction account issuer may be processed differently than a transaction corresponding to a merchant sponsored reward. Sponsoring may include at least one of endorsing funding supporting processing analyzing validating fulfilling affiliating with providing information for and or the like.

System may be configured to initially process transactions and issue debits and credits associated with a transaction e.g. the purchase of an item . System may be a standalone system part of a larger accounts payable account receivable system and or part of a separately contained rewards processing system. This processing may be conducted by any suitable system with accounts receivable and or accounts payable processing capabilities. In various embodiments credits and debits associated with transaction information e.g. a ROC or a transaction account authorization and rewards associated with the transaction corresponding to the transaction information may be processed in series e.g. the credit and debit associated with the transaction information and the rewards processing associated with the transaction information do not occur at substantially the same time but occur in any suitable order or in parallel. Moreover the credits and debits may be processed in substantially real time or may be processed in batches. Batch processing may allow a sponsoring entity to set a limit on the number of rewards provided e.g. 300 rewards to the first 300 CMs that make 3 qualifying transactions to set timing for the reward being provided or to set other suitable parameters for issuing rewards.

In various embodiments and with reference to reward processing of the transaction information may occur in series. The transaction information may be acquired by any suitable system or process such as an accounts payable and or accounts receivable processing system. System may be a sub system or may interface with the account payable accounts receivable processing system. As part of the processing system and or account payable accounts receivable processing system may identify a CM associated with the transaction information and or associated CM data with particular transaction information. The account payable accounts receivable processing system may also create an account payable record associated with the transaction information e.g. a merchant portion of a ROC and an account receivable record associated with the transaction information e.g. a CM portion of a ROC and provide the corresponding debit and or credit associated with each of the account payable record and account receivable record. The debit and or credit may then be provided to the appropriate systems for issuance to the corresponding merchant and or CM. Instructions associated with the debit and or credit may be provided to a suitable system and or module for further reporting e.g. CM statement and or Merchant Statement A .

The account payable portion of the transaction information may be transmitted from a merchant account processing module A to RCE . includes two merchant account processing modules A which may be the same processing module or different processing modules. The module is shown twice for clarity and ease of explanation . Transaction information associated with international charges may be routed through one or more sub systems. GC S and or merchant account processing module A may be administered by any suitable entity including for example a transaction account issuer a payment processor a merchant acquirer a loyalty program provider and or any suitable third party.

RCE may be configured to further process the transaction information and associated CM data evaluate offers match transaction information and or CM data with one or more merchant sponsored offers or transaction account issuer sponsored offers. Where RCE identifies a match associated with the transaction information and or CM data RCE associates and or appends a processing code and or reward identifier to the transaction information. The code or identifier may designate the type and or amount of the reward. The code may also identify the entity sponsoring the reward e.g. a merchant sponsored reward or a transaction account issuer sponsored reward . RCE may also transmit credit and debit data e.g. actual credits and debits or instructions to credit and debit the associated transaction account and sponsoring entity account to the various AR and AP systems discussed herein.

With particular reference to system may be configured to process a merchant sponsored reward. Where the transaction information comprises a code and or an identifier indicates that the reward is merchant sponsored. RCE transmits the transaction information to GC S and Merchant account processing module A which may be part of the larger account payable accounts receivable processing system or may be a suitable reward processing sub system.

GC S may further process the transaction information to determine the type of account associated with the transaction information such as for example a proprietary transaction account associated with a U.S. CM a proprietary transaction account associated with an International CM and or a GNS issued account. The reward e.g. a credit or instructions to provide a credit to a transaction account may then be transmitted by GC S through the appropriate AR processing system e.g. AR U.S. Transaction Accounts AR GNS Transaction Accounts and or AR International Transaction Accounts corresponding to the type of transaction account to the issuer entity or system responsible for administering the credit. The reward may then be provided to the CM and or credited to the associated transaction account and shown on a CM s statement .

Merchant account processing module A may receive debit information associated with the reward that corresponds to the amount of the reward and any associated fee from RCE . Merchant account processing module A may further process the transaction information and or reward information to determine whether the merchant is a U.S. merchant or an international merchant. Based on that determination merchant account processing module A may then transmit the transaction information and or reward information e.g. the debit and or debit information to the appropriate AP system e.g. AP U.S. merchants or AP international merchants for further processing. The AP system may further transmit the transaction information and or reward information to the appropriate merchant such that the debit is applied or associated with a merchant account and a suitable identifier associated with the debit is provided on the merchant statement A. The suitable identifier may be an identifier associated with a single debit or may be an identifier associated with a plurality of debits corresponding to CM rewards and or fees paid by the merchant. In other words the suitable identifier may comprise one or more debits and or one or more fees payable by the merchant to the transaction account issuer.

With particular reference to system may be configured to process a transaction account issuer sponsored reward. Where the transaction information comprises a code or identifier indicates that the reward is issuer sponsored RCE transmits the transaction information to GC S and administrative account processing module B which may be part of the larger account payable accounts receivable processing system or may be a suitable reward processing sub system. GC S and or administrative account processing module B may be administered by any suitable entity including for example a transaction account issuer a payment processor a merchant acquirer a loyalty program provider and or any suitable third party.

GC S may further process the transaction information to determine the type of account associated with the transaction information such as for example a proprietary transaction account associated with a U.S. CM a proprietary transaction account associated with an International CM or a GNS issued account. The reward e.g. a credit or instructions to provide a credit to a transaction account may then be transmitted by GC S through the appropriate AR processing system e.g. AR U.S. Transaction Accounts AR GNS Transaction Accounts and or AR International Transaction Accounts corresponding to the type of transaction account to the issuer entity or system responsible for administering the credit. The reward may then be provided to the CM and or credited to the associated transaction account and shown on a CM s statement .

The issuer may be associated with various sub entities or groups that offer or provide rewards programs to encourage specific CM behavior. For example the issuer may be associated with a first group that provides a program that offers rewards for the purchase of travel services and a second group that provides a program that offers rewards for purchases from small businesses. In order to insure proper accounting the issuer associates costs associated with each program to the specific sub entity or group providing the program. As such administrative account processing module B may receive debit information associated with the reward that corresponds to the amount of the reward and any associated fee from RCE . Administrative account processing module B may further process the transaction information and or reward information to determine the group or sub entity responsible for or associated with the reward. Based on that determination administrative account processing module B may then transmit the transaction information and or reward information e.g. the debit and or debit information to an appropriate responsibility center B associated with group or sub entity responsible for the reward.

RCE may also be coupled to or configured to provide the credits and debits associated the each reward to a work in progress WIP accounting module . WIP accounting module may be any suitable hardware software or hardware software system configured to receive track compare balance monitor analyze or otherwise process credit and associated debits. WIP accounting module may also be configured to insure that each credit is properly associated with a corresponding debit to insure financial balance.

System further allows issuers and merchants to provide rewards in various currencies and based on CM transactions or spends in various countries. The parameters of rewards offers associated with the reward in various countries may be determined at the time the sponsoring entity e.g. sponsoring merchant a sponsoring transaction account issuer a sponsoring product manufacturer a sponsoring service provider a sponsoring third party a sponsoring merchant acquirer a sponsoring promotional organization and or the like sets up the offer. The sponsoring entity may be affiliated with an entity providing the item associated with the reward but may not supply the item e.g. a Chamber of commerce or other promotional or civic organization a university a club or similar entity . The reward offer parameters may include for example the currency of the reward e.g. the currency of the reward credit and associated debit . Typically the reward credit and associated debit may be provided in the same currency or in different currencies. However in for some rewards program the currencies must be provided in the same currency. Similarly in some jurisdictions where a reward offer is presented to CM s the laws of the jurisdiction or accounting practices of the jurisdiction may require the credit and debit are provided in the same currency. A sponsoring entity may also define currency based on the currency of the country where the transaction associated with the reward offer will take place or based on the currency of the country associated with a population of CM that are being targeted by the reward offer or sponsoring entity or any other suitable currency.

The reward offer parameters or rules governing transaction processing of a particular account issuer may also define when an exchange rate is captured for international rewards programs. For example a German CM may accept and conduct a purchase associated with a U.S. offer where the offer parameters define that the offer credit and debit are administered in U.S. Dollars. As such the credit to the German CM and the debit the U.S. merchant are provided in U.S. Dollars. However the credit to the German CM is provided on CM Statement in Euros and thus an exchange rate associated with the transaction is defined. The exchange rate may be the time that the transaction is initiated or authorized e.g. when the CM presents the transaction account for payment at a POS . The exchange rate may be captured at the time the merchant submissions is processed by the account payable accounts receivable processing system. The exchange rate may also be captured at any suitable time or may be based on a pre determined exchange rate selected by the CM and or guaranteed by the account issuer.

For example the system allows a merchant or issuer to provide a reward credit in the currency of the country where the spend occurred e.g. a U.S. CM conducts a transaction in Germany in Euros and receives a reward credit and or a notification of a reward credit in Euros . This allows the U.S. CM to understand the amount of the reward in the context of the transaction. The system also allows a merchant or issuer to provide a reward credit in the currency of the home country of the CM e.g. a U.S. CM conducts a transaction in Germany in Euros and receives a reward credit and or a notification of a reward credit in U.S. Dollars . This would allow the U.S. CM to understand the amount of the reward in the context of currency most familiar to the CM. The system may further provide a percentage reward e.g. a 10 credit based on reward criteria that could be administered in any suitable currency selected by the issuer and or merchant.

CM may be notified of these various international offers in any suitable fashion. For example if the CM books travel using a transaction account associated with a rewards program having international rewards in destinations associated with the booked travel a merchant or issuer may provide notices associated with one of more rewards programs based on the travel itinerary. This notification process is discussed in more detail below. Similarly the CM may leverage social media to conduct a check in at a particular international destination through Foursquare and as a result receive offers based on the CM s location as discussed herein. A CM spend in a foreign country i.e. a country that is not the country of residence of the CM such as a British CM s spend in the U.S. may be a triggering event that produces notifications of rewards to the British CM that may be loaded to a card based on a selection by the CM or an overt act by the CM e.g. a tweet a Facebook check in multiple spends at one or more merchants or associated with one or more items .

RCE may further have the capability to provide TAP with reporting which may include a marketing analysis or monitoring of the success of various marketing programs and information relating to account holder participation therein. Reporting thereby permits TAP to target CMs and deliver merchant offers that are desirable to its registered CMS and or merchants.

Offer DB may comprise a plurality of offers. In various embodiments the offers may be predetermined offers and or offers based on merchant criteria. The offers may be configured to be delivered electronically through reporting . The electronic delivery may include delivery via email text messaging instant messaging and or social networking distribution e.g. via Facebook Twitter Myspace Linked in . The electronic delivery may be automatic or require a manual input.

In various embodiments and with reference to system may be configured to associate offers with a CM based on publishing actions by the CM. Many channels e.g. blog websites social media website and or the like available through the internet allow a CM to publish content that can be viewed by people or entities associated with the CM. Channels may include for example Facebook Twitter You Tube foursquare Linkedin Pintrest Google Plus Feedji Chatter Yammer Cubetree Socialtext Jive Neustar Weightless Blogger and or the like. These channels are generally able to identify publications by a CM through components of the system that support the channel. For example data associated with a user s social media account may be indexed by the social media service. The particular data e.g. a broadcast message or other suitable data published by the user through the social media site can be particularly identified if the data comprises a predetermined object e.g. offer identifier text picture symbol keyword graphic sound etc. .

Initially the CM may have to associate a transaction account and a broadcast channel with the entity response for administering the rewards program. The CM may navigate through a web browser to a offer program landing page A. The CM may select one or more broadcast channels e.g. social media channels Step . In response to the receiving the broadcast channel selection system may request profile data for the CM s broadcast channel account Step . System may be configured to display a webpage that allows a CM to input the profile information or may allow the CM to sign in with a selected broadcast channel user name and password. For example system may provide a broadcast channel login button A. System may also require the CM to specifically authorize system RCE or a third party A e.g. a partner merchant service provider monitoring service and or the like to monitor collect evaluate or otherwise process the data broadcasted by the CM through the broadcast channel Step . In various embodiments system may be configured with an application provided through an authorization page A that installs on a device e.g. a smart phone laptop tablet computer and or the like to facilitate monitoring of the CM broadcasts CM profile information transaction accounts associated with a CM and process or manage any other suitable CM data.

The CM may then provide profile information for the channel associated with the CM s broadcast channel account Step . In response to receiving the profile information system may be configured to request transaction account information Step . The transaction account information may be provided through an account registration webpage A or be automatically identified by system based on the login information where the login information sufficiently complies with e.g. is identical to login information associated with one or more transaction accounts. System may further request the CM to affirmatively sync the transaction account with the CM s broadcast channel profile e.g. by selecting a sync button A . System may be configured to verify that the transaction account is eligible to sync with the broadcast channel profile and receive offer based on CM broadcasts based on card type spending level payment history spending history creditworthiness enrollment in loyalty programs or any other suitable factor Step . For example CM with standard accounts may be eligible to receive offers but CM with branded transaction accounts may not be eligible to receive offers based on CM broadcasts.

Based on the sync and the verification that a card is eligible system may acknowledge to the CM the association between the transaction account and the CM s broadcast channel profile Step . System may also provide a confirmation webpage A may electronically communicate confirmation that a transaction account has been synced e.g. via an e mail SMS social media message and or the like or any other suitable confirmation. In various embodiments system may be configured to provide additional information to the CM during the registration process. For example system may be configured with an offer database that is searchable by the CM. This allows the CM to evaluate the various offers available allowing the CM to determine whether she would be interested in receiving the offers. System may also brand various web pages based on the broadcast channel selected by the user. For example where system allows a CM to associate an American Express transaction account with the social media channel such as Twitter system may be configured to co brand one of more web pages during registration with American Express brands and Twitter brands. This may be based on the GM s selection of Twitter and or the providing American Express Transaction account information.

Any entity associated with distributing and or sponsoring the offer may create an offer indicator and offer details A Step . Thereafter the offer may be communicated to CMs and or non cardmembers through any suitable communication channel A as discussed herein Step . In response to the offer being distributed and or communicated from Offer DB a CM may be requested to take action to accept associate and or load the offer to a transaction account as discussed above. In various embodiments the CM or non cardmember may be requested to broadcast an offer indicator A or predefined message A to accept associate and or load the offer. The CM or non cardmember may use a broadcast service e.g. Twitter You Tube Facebook and or the like to transmit the predetermined message A. The loyalty program provider offering entity A and or RCE may be configured to monitor or receive broadcast information from a broadcast monitoring module Step .

The broadcast monitoring module may be configured to monitor all broadcasts from a particular channel. The broadcast monitoring module may be operated by or reside with the broadcast channel e.g. Twitter Facebook You Tube Linkedin Pintrest and or the like or an entity responsible for administering the offer e.g. loyalty program provider offering entity A and or RCE . The channel may be a social media channel such as for example Twitter Facebook You Tube Linkedin Pintrest and or the like. In response the offer indicator A or predetermined message A being identified through broadcast monitoring module the offer may be loaded to or associated with a CM transaction account Step . System may be configured to transmit a confirmation message A to the CM in response to loading the offer to the CM s transaction account. The confirmation message A may be transmitted through the channel of the original CM broadcast or through any other suitable communication channel.

in various embodiments where the CM account is not synced with a broadcast channel but the CM may still broadcast the offer identifier through a channel such that the entity responsible for administering the offer invites the CM to associate a transaction account with the channel Step . For example the entity responsible for administering the offer may provide a message A to the CM. The message could be transmitted through the channel that the CM used to broadcast the offer identifier or through any other suitable communication channel. Alternative communication channels may be used where the profile from the broadcast channel used to broadcast the offer is associated with another communication channel e.g. a twitter account may be associated with at least one of another social media account a mobile phone number or an e mail address .

If the offer indicator or predetermined message is broadcast by a non cardmember the non cardmember may be offered the opportunity to apply for a transaction account so that the non cardmember can take advantage or the offer. Transaction data associated with the transaction account is monitored and compared with the parameter of the associated offer so that the offer can be fulfilled when the conditions of the offer are met Step .

For example using Twitter or any other suitable push based short message service a CM or non cardmember may receive a communication indicating that if the CM or non cardmember broadcasts or tweets an offer indicator the CM or non cardmember will be eligible to take advantage of an offer e.g. a discount on a product a credit of loyalty points an experience and or the like . As noted above a non cardmember will need to apply for and be granted a transaction account in order to take advantage of the offer.

In operation a user e.g. a CM or non cardmember broadcasts or in the Twitter example tweets a message comprising the offer indicator. The broadcast is received by the broadcast platform. Any broadcast that comprises the offer indicator is identified by the broadcast platform. This subset of broadcasts is transmitted to the entity responsible for administering the offer. The subset of broadcasts may be transmitted in real time in batches or at any suitable frequency. Once the broadcasts are provided to the entity responsible for providing instructions to load or associating offers to a transaction account the broadcasts are analyzed are parsed to identify specific offer identifiers. Based on the identification of a specific offer identifier the offer can be loaded on the transaction account associated with the source of the broadcast. Transaction data may be evaluated against offer loaded to a transaction account to provide the benefit of the offer to the transaction account or a CM associated with the transaction account.

Offers may be loaded to a transaction account at any time. The offer may be loaded to a transaction account after a qualifying purchase is made but transaction data from a prior purchase may be evaluated against a subsequent offer. In this way purchases that are authorized before an offer identifier is broadcast by a CM may be applied to transaction data that was authorized prior to the broadcast. For example a CM may make a purchase at a first time and broadcast an offer identifier at a second time where the first time is earlier than the second time. The transaction data associated with the purchase at the first time may be evaluated with the offer associated with the broadcast at the second time to provide the benefit associated with the offer based on the purchase. The benefit will be provided as long as the transaction data associated with the purchase complies with the rules governing the offer e.g. the timing of the offer the spend level of the offer the location of the purchase and or the like . Similarly a broadcast comprising an offer identifier which causes an offer to load to a transaction account may occur at a first time and be evaluate against transaction data from a purchase at a second time where the first time is earlier than the second time.

The offer indicator may be a hashtag that comprises the sign and a symbol or keyword as is commonly used to characterize or categorize a tweet. The offer indicator may be any other indicator that is predetermined or dynamically determined to by the entity making or distributing the offer. The offer indicator may comprise elements or symbols that are associated with the entity funding or distributing the offer e.g. a branded offer indicator . For example an offer sponsored by a merchant and distributed by American Express may comprise elements of the name of the merchant such as HD for Home Depot and elements of American Express such as AMEX for American Express . In this example the offer indicator may be HDAMEX it should be understood that the offer indicator may also comprise and text pictures video graphical elements symbols sounds and or the like. The offer indicator may also comprise any predetermined or dynamically determined elements or symbols that describe the offer or are arbitrary e.g. a branded offer indicator .

Where the hashtag is used and the twitter account used to tweet the hashtag is public the offering entity or the entity administering the rewards program can identify user who have tweeted the offer indicator by searching for particular hashtag among publicly available tweets. Tweets can also be linked to other social media such as Facebook Linkedin or any other publicly accessible website using the Twitter widget. The tweets may be displayed within on a social media or publicly accessible website so that the offering entity or entity administering the offer can identify what CM or non cardmembers are tweeting to take advantage of the offer.

The offering entity or the entity administering the rewards program may also follow a CM who associates a transaction account for Twitter offers. In this case the offering entity or entity administering the rewards program will receive every tweet from the CM and will be able to determine with one or more of the CM s tweets included the offer indicator. Once the offering entity or entity administering the offer has identified a tweet that contains the offer indicator the offer can be loaded to the transaction account associated with the CM.

Rewards may be provided to CM that follow a merchant manufacturer distributor a sponsoring entity and or the like on Twitter. The reward may be a discount recurring reward a one time reward or other suitable reward based on the follow action.

Rewards may also be provided to CMs that re tweet tweets from a merchant manufacturer distributor a sponsoring entity and or the like. For example an amount of Delta Sky Miles could be added to a Sky Miles account holder who re tweets a tweet from Delta Airlines. The rewards may be funded by a sponsoring entity such as Delta in the example above. Smaller merchants may also arrange or sponsor a program to provide rewards with an entity administering a rewards program. For example a local hardware store may sponsor a program that provides rewards points e.g. American Express MR Rewards Points for tweets from customer that use the store.

In various embodiments a CM may be presented with one or more offers based upon her current location and those same offers may be generated or provided using the systems and methods incorporated by reference herein. Using the systems and methods described herein 

A CM who has registered to receive offers from registered merchants may therefore improve her ability to receive and review offers by permitting rewards system to show her offers from merchants near her current location. In this way a CM is not restricted to registering for offers by way of a static or immobile computing device e.g. a personal computer nor is the CM forced to determine which offers she wishes to be registered to receive while she is stationary and away from the physical location of a registered merchant. Rather a CM may receive dynamically updated offers based upon her changing location. Thus a CM who resides in a city that is not home to a particular registered merchant may nevertheless receive offers from the particular registered merchant when she travels.

Referring now to system implements a method for providing location based offers to registered or participating transaction account holders i.e. card members CMs registered participants and or users . System may include a client a network an offer registration system a rewards system and a travel system . System may include a variety of other components including for example one or more mobile gateway servers not shown for securely receiving and transmitting data to and from the client one or more electronic commerce website servers not shown and or one or more payment processor authorization gateway servers not shown .

Client may comprise any software and or hardware suitably configured for sending and or receiving data. Client may comprise a mobile communication device such as a smart phone e.g. an iPhone Blackberry Droid device and or the like and or a personal digital assistant PDA . Client may also include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer iPad iMAC MacBook or generally any of a wide array of personal computing products. Client may further comprise a kiosk a terminal a point of sale POS device a television a digital sign or banner or any other device capable of sending and or receiving data over a network. In various embodiments client may run Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilia Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari or any other of the myriad software packages available for browsing the internet. Client may further comprise at least a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a plasma screen display.

Network may comprise software and or hardware suitably configured or configurable to facilitate the transmission and reception of data. Thus network may comprise any of a variety of wired and or wireless network architectures including for example an RF network architecture such as a network associated with a wireless provider e.g. a 3G or 4G network a Wi Fi network architecture e.g. a home area or local area network a wired network architecture reliant upon one or more cables and or trunk lines and or optical fibre lines and or any combination thereof.

Offer registration system may comprise software and or hardware suitably configured or configurable to receive and or process data. Thus offer registration system may comprise a rack mountable server appliance running a suitable server operating system e.g. IIS and having database software e.g. Oracle installed thereon. Offer registration system may be configured or configurable to register one or more CMs and or one or more merchants who wish to participate in a rewards program. Thus in various embodiments offer registration system may comprise a database of CMs and merchants who have registered or enrolled to participate in a rewards program. In various embodiments any servers discussed herein may include application servers e.g. WEB SPHERE WEB LOGIC JBOSS . In various embodiments the server may include web servers e.g. APACHE HS GWS SUN JAVA SYSTEM WEB SERVER .

Rewards system may comprise any type of computer server configured or configurable to host a database. In various embodiments such a server comprises a rack mountable server appliance running a suitable server operating system e.g. IIS and having database software e.g. Oracle installed thereon. In various embodiments rewards system may be configured or configurable to match a CM s spending data to one or more rewards or rewards offers. In various embodiments rewards system may collect or receive location data associated with one or more CMs. For example rewards system may collect or receive OPS coordinates associated with a CM s client a city and state or other named location associated with a client and the like. Rewards system may receive travel data associated with a CM s travel itinerary this data may be provided by a travel system see below . Rewards system may provide one or more rewards or rewards offers to a CM based upon or in association with the CIA s location as described more fully below .

Travel system may comprise any type of computer server configured or configurable to host a database. In various embodiments such a server comprises a rack mountable server appliance running a suitable server operating system e.g. IIS and having database software e.g. Oracle installed thereon. In various embodiments travel system may collect or receive location data associated with one or more CMs. For example travel system may collect or receive GPS coordinates associated with a CM s client a city and state or other named location associated with a client and the like. Further travel system may collect or receive location data associated with a CM s travel itinerary. In various embodiments travel system may comprise a database of CMs who have used their transaction accounts to purchase travel tickets. Travel system may comprise a CM s travel itinerary. In various embodiments travel system may comprise one or more of the systems and or perform one or more of the methods described in U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2003 0177045 entitled System and Method for Processing Trip Requests filed Jan. 17 7003 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Client may be coupled to offer registration system and or rewards system by way of network . Likewise offer registration system may be coupled to rewards system by way of network . Thus client may transmit and receive data to and from rewards system through offer registration system or client may transmit and receive data to and from rewards system directly. Rewards system may be further coupled to travel system by way of network .

Referring now to the process flows and screenshots depicted are merely embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as described herein. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented. It will be appreciated that the following description makes appropriate references not only to the steps and user interface elements depicted in but also to the various system components as described above with reference to .

Referring to a method for providing location based offers to registered CM s is described A CM may receive during the course of her travels one or more offers via her client e.g. her mobile communication device based upon her current location and for example in accordance with the systems and methods described in U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2008 0021772 or U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 857 389 12 857 424 all of which are incorporated by reference above step . Thus in an exemplary embodiment a CM may receive an offer associated with a merchant that is registered like the CM with the offer registration system .

In various embodiments and with reference to a CM may receive a notification by way of her client indicating that her location has been determined and that one or more offers are or may be available. A link may be provided which if selected may transfer the CM to a website or webpage e.g. a landing page or other mobile interface that displays or is configured to display one or more offers step . The landing page may require that the CM log into her transaction account e.g. with a username and password prior to displaying her offers. However in various embodiments not shown it may not be necessary to select a link to view offers rather offers may be presented directly to a CM by way of client . Thus for example client might display a message like We see you have arrived in Phoenix. Receive 60 off your stay with the Airport Hotel Marriott Thus a CM may accept or further review an offer by selecting the offer e.g. clicking on the offer or by selecting a button e.g. a button associated with a mobile interface to indicate her interest.

In various embodiments and with continuing attention to a CM having indicated her interest in reviewing and or receiving one or more offers and having been transferred to a landing page may choose to review her offers via link . A CM may also choose to review her payment history via link or she may choose to review her recent purchase activity via link . A variety of other options may additionally appear. For instance a user may choose to view and or edit her account information.

Where a CM selects an offers link or otherwise indicates that she is interested in reviewing receiving offers the CM may be transferred to an offer page as shown at . An offer page may comprise a variety of offer categories. For example an offer page may comprise a travel offers category A a shopping offers category B a dining offers category C an entertainment offers category D and the like. A CM may search for one or more offers in the vicinity of her physical location by entering her zip code in an interface step . Rewards system may populate offer page with one or more offer categories for the user based upon her zip code step . For instance rewards system may locate one or more travel offers A one or more shopping offers B one or more dining offers C one or more entertainment offers D and the like that are in the zip code or within a physical range of the zip code entered by the CM step . Likewise a CM may search for one or more travel offers A one or more shopping offers B one or more dining offers C one or more entertainment offers D and the like that are in the zip code or within a physical range of the zip code entered by the CM step . The CM may select any of the offer categories A B C and or D associated with the located offers to view offers related to those offer categories and associated with merchants in the specified zip code step .

In various embodiments a CM may not be required to enter her zip code in order to receive one or more offers. Rather the CM s client may upload the CM s GPS location coordinates to rewards system step . In various embodiments the CM s client may upload to rewards system a location of the CM relative to one or more cellular base stations step . In various embodiments travel system may upload itinerary data associated with the CM to rewards system step . Rewards system may utilize the CM s GPS location coordinates the CM s location relative to one or more cellular base stations the CM s itinerary data and or any combination thereof to determine a location of the CM. In response to determining the location of the CM rewards system may populate offer page with one or more offer categories step . For instance rewards system may locate one or more items e.g. travel offers A one or more shopping offers B one or more dining offers C one or more entertainment offers and the like that are offered by merchants in the vicinity of the CM or within a physical range of the CM s location. The CM may select any of the offer categories A B C and or associated with the located offers to view offers related to those offer categories step .

Referring to a CM may be transferred to an offer category page in response to a selection by the CM of an offer category e.g. one of the offer categories A B C and or D. In the example depicted at a CM has selected the travel offers category A. However any of the offer categories B C and or may equally be selected and the webpage interface details described below apply in similar fashion with appropriate modifications for each category type .

As shows an offer category e.g. A B C and or may include one or more offer classes. For example a travel offers category A may include one or more travel offer classes. In various embodiments depicted at a travel offer category A may include a golf travel offer class A and a hotels travel offer class . Notwithstanding the example depicted at a travel offer category A may include a wide variety of travel offer classes. That is a travel offer category A is by no means limited to a golf travel offer class A and a hotels travel offer class . In various embodiments a number of offers associated with a travel offer class may be displayed adjacent to each travel offer class. For example in the golf travel offers class A contains three golf related offers . Likewise the hotels travel offers class contains six hotel related offers .

A CM may select an offer class within an offer category based upon her interests. Each offer class may comprise a variety of offers and a CM may select one or more offers based upon her interests step . Thus with continuing reference to and in an exemplary embodiment a CM may select the golf travel offer class A. Selecting the golf travel offer class A may cause client to display one or more of the three golf related offers . For example a first golf related offer may comprise an offer for 70 off a first round of golf at a first golf course. Likewise a second golf related offer may comprise an offer for 15 off a golf weekend package at a second golf course and a third golf related offer may comprise an offer for 15 off a round of golf at a third golf course. Although the exemplary embodiment shows three golf related offers and any number of golf related offers are possible and of course each travel offer class A etc. may comprise any number of travel class related offers.

In response to a CM selecting an offer client may display offer details. For example and with continuing attention to the example of where a CM selects golf related offer 20 off a round of golf at a third golf course a detailed message may be provided explaining certain offer details. A CM may choose to receive an offer by way of a button or other interface item displayed by client . For example in a CM may select a get offer button.

In response to selection of an offer i.e. indication by a CM that an offer is desired and as further described in certain of the materials herein incorporated by reference offer registration system and or rewards system may fulfill the offer for the CM step . In various embodiments offer registration system and or rewards system may provide a transaction account processor s AP accounts payable system with information on merchant debits and credits for processing. Offer registration system and or rewards system may further provide a transaction account processor s AR accounts receivable system with information on card member debits and credits for processing. A merchant s account is debited for a CM s rebated credit may be further debited a service fee and is credited a CM s discount reversal amount in the case of an eligible return. A CM s account or monthly statement may show a credited amount in accordance with any rebate credit and a debited amount in accordance with any discount reversal arising from an eligible return.

The offers may be accessible by RCE . These offers may be based upon specific parameters which define at least one of a reward a merchant and or class of merchants characteristics of a targeted CM a predetermined qualification threshold and the like. RCE may analyze the parameters to identify intended recipients of the offers. RCE may also analyze the parameters to determine characteristics for a CM population. This capability allows the merchant to quickly and inexpensively target the CM with customized marketing and or offers. This capability also allows the merchant to provide an offer to targeted CMs before a target list is pulled.

In various embodiments reporting may be configured to deliver offers to CMs with particular behaviors and or patterns e.g. spending behaviors reward usage behaviors etc . RCE may be configured to define a particular CM population based on merchant targeted marketing efforts CM spending patterns. CM demographic data and or the like. For example RCE may identify a CM population that spends a predetermined amount of money on electronics in a predetermined period of time. Further RCE may identify a merchant who offers electronics for purchase but does not capture significant spending from the identified CM population. In other words the CMs who spend a predetermined amount on electronics are not spending significant amounts on electronics with the identified merchant. RCE may analyze the CM spending to compare the total amount of spending on a particular class of items e.g. electronics . RCE may also analyze such CM spending based on merchants that receive the CM spend to determine the proportions of spending at a particular merchant class of merchants and or the like. Such information may be compared to a predetermined threshold spending amount or proportions of spending at particular merchants and or classes of merchants. The comparison allows for example a merchant to target CNN that do not typically spend significant amounts with a particular merchant or class of merchant but the CMs buy the types of products and or services offered by the merchant or class of merchants.

CM populations may be initially created based on for example historical data. The historical data accessible to a financial processor such as spend level data is leveraged using various data clustering and or data appending techniques. The CM populations may also be created based on for example current spending patterns. The current spend patterns available to a financial processor e.g. current authorized transactions posted transactions and the like may be leveraged using various data clustering and or data appending techniques. Associations may be established among entities e.g. CMs among merchants and between entities and merchants. In various embodiments RCE may receive passively collected spend level data for a transaction of a plurality of CMs aggregate the collected spend level data for a plurality of CMs and cluster the CMs into subsets of the plurality of CMs based on the aggregated spend level data.

The collection of the spend level data may be passive. For instance passively collecting spend level data of a CM includes acquiring the spend level data in response to a transaction by a CM with a merchant. In various embodiments the spend level data may be integral to information processed in a transaction for goods and or services with a merchant. For instance a survey and or survey responses are not needed to capture spend level data but such data may be used to supplement the data discussed herein. Collecting the spend level data may include acquiring the spend level data from a merchant. In various embodiments passively collecting the spend level data of a CM includes collecting the spend level data from a transaction database. In yet another embodiment passively collecting the spend level data includes reconciling the spend level data transferring the spend level data to a host organizing spend level data into a format saving the spend level data to a memory gathering the spend level data from the memory and or saving the spend level data to a database. For instance if a CM performs a transaction such as by using a transaction account spend level data such as transaction data and or consumer account data related to the transaction may be captured and stored in a memory database and or multiple databases. Spend level data such as transaction data and or consumer account data may be stored locally with the merchant remotely by the merchant and or transmitted to a remote host e.g. financial processor for storing and processing.

In various embodiments aggregating the collected spend level data includes combining a selectable range of collected spend level data. The selectable range may be a period of time e.g. time range and or from a particular geographic region. The period may be any suitable period and or periods such as a minute an hour a period of hours one day one week one month a period of days a period of months one year or more than one year. The periods may be consecutive or non consecutive. In various embodiments the selectable range may be a value such as values of spend exceeding a pre selected threshold. The selectable range may also include frequency such as spend level data occurring at a particular frequency.

In various embodiments the spend level data may be segmented by a gender of the entity e.g. male or female such that only data collected from merchants in transactions with men are processed by RCE . This data may be aggregated clustered assigned a weighed percentile and analyzed in accordance with the previous descriptions. Using this exemplary embodiment of the system preferences attributes and inferences of a selected demographic may be obtained. In various embodiments spend level data segmented geographically e.g. zip code or by other regions can reveal which regions are most compelling to a merchant and or marketer.

Any demographic included within the characteristic data may be selected for pre segmenting the spend level data. In various embodiments the spend level data may be segmented by an attribute e.g. homeowner designation and data collected from merchants in transactions with entities that are homeowners may be processed by RCE . This data may be aggregated clustered assigned a weighed percentile and analyzed in accordance with the previous descriptions. From this procedure a holistic picture of homeowners segmented into different clusters may be created. More than one demographic or attribute may be selected and the spend level data may be pre segmented any suitable number of times in any suitable order. Additionally in various embodiments a particular demographic may be selected to be removed from the larger set of all available spend level data. For instance the spend level data of very high income entities may be selected for removal and data collected from merchants in transactions with very high income entities may be excluded from processing by RCE . The remaining data may be aggregated clustered assigned a weighed percentile and analyzed in accordance with the previous descriptions. Using this embodiment outliers may be removed from the results. Additional details regarding combining CMs into populations are disclosed in for example U.S. application Ser. No. 12 690 669 entitled System And Method For Clustering a Population Using Spend level Data and filed on Jan. 20 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The CM populations may be established based on historical data or on current spending patterns as discussed above and in various embodiments are modified based on current spending habits. For example spend level data may be actively captured and used to modify CM populations. As CM spending habits change the groups are modified to provide greater accuracy for delivering rewards merchant offers and the like. For example a CM may be placed in a population of CMs whose spend level data suggests that they attend public entertainment events e.g. movies concerts and the like . As time passes the system may analyze a shift in the spend level data which suggests that the CM possibly due to a having a new baby attends less public entertainment events and spends more for home entertainment items such as for example home electronics equipment. In response to the shift in spend level data RCE may associate the CM with a new CM population which receives rewards offers for electronics. Further RCE may also remove a CM from a particular CM population based on current spend level data wherein the CM was originally placed in a CM population based on historical spend level data but no longer exhibits spending behavior consistent with the historical spend level data.

In various embodiments in response to the determination that the CM population is spending on electronics but not with a particular identified merchant reporting may send the CM population a reward offer from the identified merchant. The rewards offer may be designed to encourage the CM population to buy electronics from the identified merchant with whom the CM population had not previously conducted significant business.

The terms of a rewards offer may define a trigger event such as a threshold spending amount at a particular merchant or class of merchants or for a class of items. The reward offer may be provided electronically to the CM population based on a trigger event e.g. in real time . A trigger event may be any action identified by the merchant or the account issuer. The trigger event may be based on spend data geographic region spend CM population size time of year or any other event. The event may be identified by the merchant CM and or account issuer. For example the trigger event may be based on spend data. In response to a CM population reaching a predetermined spend level on a class of products e.g. electronics the rewards offer may be sent to the CM population via e mail. Similarly the trigger event may be based on a CM population size. In response to the CM population reaching a predetermined level a rewards offer is sent to the CM population. In another example the merchant and a product supplier or manufacturer may create a joint offer which provides a reward offer if a CM buys a particular item e.g. a particular model laptop computer or class of items e.g. any Sony television .

In various embodiments a merchant may wish to market rewards offers to CM populations based on CMs spending at other merchants. For example a merchant that sells home improvement items e.g. Home Depot may wish to market its products and services to a CM population that spends a predetermined amount on electronics. The merchant may formulate a set of criteria to develop a CM population based on spend data for electronics purchases e.g. televisions and or spend data at particular electronics merchants e.g. Best Buy . Thereafter rewards offers from the merchant are provided to the CM population in response to a trigger event.

In various embodiments the identified merchant offer is provided in conjunction with an existing rewards program. For example the CM may be eligible for a reward based on the CM s pre existing participation in a rewards program. The reward offer is provided in addition to the existing reward. For example a CM is provided with a credit based on a particular transaction at a particular merchant. The transaction may also result in the CM becoming a member of a particular CM population that is provided with a rewards over e.g. an additional discount with the identified merchant based on the loyal spending behavior . As such the CM receives the pre existing reward and the reward offer based on the CM becoming a member of a CM population.

In various embodiments a CM is automatically enrolled in a program to receive e mail rewards based on criteria determined by a merchant or account issuer. In various embodiments a CM may be invited to join a CM population that is eligibly to receive rewards offers. The CM may receive a notification which indicates that the CM is eligible to receive rewards offers. The notification may provide for an opt out period during which the CM can request that the CM is not sent the rewards offers based on the CM s inclusion in a CM population. The notification may also provide that the CM register to receive the rewards offers by taking some affirmative action such as for example registering the CM s account via a webpage and or contacting the account issuer and requesting to be included in the CM population associated with the rewards offers.

RCE may be configured to administer rewards associated with a prepaid transaction account. Such configuration may occur directly or via API s that are included in RCP . The prepaid transaction account may comprise embedded rewards including for example credits to the prepaid transaction account merchant specific rewards e.g. merchant gift cards discounts and the like. The rewards may be customized by a merchant. The rewards may be offered in conjunction the pre paid transaction cards e.g. American Express Gift Cards Home Depot Gift Card . Offers may be customized by an individual merchant or a group of merchants. This ability to customize offers allows local and regional merchants to offer rewards to customers that were previously unavailable because of the cost and complexity of administering a rewards program. Further providing rewards with a prepaid transaction account allows those who are not credit card users to participate in rewards programs traditionally reserved for credit card account holders.

In various embodiments a prepaid transaction account has an embedded reward which is configured by an offering merchant. For example a merchant may configure a reward which provides a credit on purchases of certain products and or services e.g. dry cleaning services at the merchant or within a group of cooperating merchants. The reward may also be based on transactions conducted in a geographic or other region. In various embodiments the reward may be limited or restricted for use in a similar or other geographic region. The rewards may be offered through a prepaid account such as a prepaid transaction card available for purchase through the offering merchant. The prepaid transaction account may be used with any merchant who accepts transaction accounts from the account issuer associated with the prepaid transaction card. Further the prepaid transaction account may be configured with pre determined reward criteria from the offering merchant. For example when seventy percent of the total value of the prepaid card is spent with the offering merchant a reward is issued. The reward may be issued in the form of a credit to the prepaid transaction account or may be provided in some other fashion e.g. another gift card from the offering merchant .

In various embodiments participation in the rewards program associated with the prepaid transaction account may be automatic or may require registration. Registration may be provided by accessing a webpage and providing identifying information. Registration may also be achieved by contacting an account issuer and requesting that a particular prepaid transaction account be associated with a rewards program.

In various embodiments any prepaid transaction account associated with an account issuer may participate in any rewards program offered by the account issuer. The transaction account may be registered with the account issuer for a particular rewards program selected by a prepaid transaction account owner. Where the activities associated with the transaction account conform to the rules governing the rewards program a reward is provided to the prepaid transaction account owner.

While many of the example discussed above disclose systems where a merchant sponsors an offer associated with a spend level at the particular merchant the system is also suitable configured to offer discounts at the product level. A product level discount facilitated by a financial institution separate from a merchant is capable of helping move specific inventory. The inventory may be targeted for the discount due to a variety of factors including approaching a limited shelf life or making room for a replacement product. Furthermore the discount may be greater than average if a supplier is able to limit to a specific product and or merchant. In various embodiments a supplier and a financial institution may partner to offer a discount for a product at a first retailer but not offer that same discount at a second retailer.

In various embodiments and with reference to a product level discount may be managed e.g. by a computer based system during a transaction. The computer based system may be operated by a financial institution or a third party entity. The computer based system may define an offer to create a predefined offer . Furthermore the predefined offer may be transmitted by the computer based system to a customer . In various embodiments computer based system be configured to receive information about the transaction between the customer and a merchant. The computer based system may receive a transaction identifier associated with a transaction where the transaction identifier comprises a transaction value a customer account identifier a merchant identifier and or a product identifier. The product identifier may be assessed by the computer based system to determine whether the transaction qualifies for a rebate credit in accordance with a predetermined offer. Furthermore a value of a rebate credit is determined based on the transaction information and or the predetermined offer. The rebate credit may be applied to a qualified transaction or the transaction may proceed under business as usual standards in a non qualified transaction .

in an exemplary embodiment the computer based system for managing a product level discount comprises a network interface communicating with a memory where the memory communicates with a processor for managing a product level discount and the processor when executing a computer program is configured to receive by the processor the transaction identifier associated with a transaction assess the product identifier to determine whether the transaction qualifies for the rebate credit in accordance with the predetermined offer and determine the value of the rebate credit.

The predefined offer for the rebate credit can be established by various parties. For example the predefined offer may be established by a transaction account issuer a loyalty account issuer a financial institution a supplier or a vendor. Furthermore the predefined offer may be established by agreement of more than one party. The predefined offer may identify a transaction associated with an everyday purchase as an eligible transaction. The predefined offer may be associated with a specialty product or specific event.

The predefined offer may be sent to the user associated with the customer account identifier to incentivize completion of the transaction A user or customer in this case can receive the predefined offer in a variety of ways. For example the customer can receive the predefined offer on a portable electronic device. In various embodiments and with reference to a user may enroll in a discount program and provide such information like an account code and a unique identifier. Furthermore the user may download a mobile application to the portable electronic device . The user could be directly contacted with the predefined offer by one or more of email a direct mailing a communication to a phone such as a text message or by referral to a website. Moreover in various embodiments the customer account identifier may include a unique identifier associated with the portable electronic device. The unique identifier associated with the portable electronic device may be used to match the transaction to the customer account identifier. The unique identifier may be for example a phone number associated with the portable electronic device. A user conducts a transaction at a merchant and then transaction information is transmitted to a financial institution or a third party . As previously described the financial institution determines whether the predefined offer is satisfied by the transaction . If it is a qualified transaction the rebate credit may be applied to the account code associated with the unique identifier .

The determination of which people to receive the predefined offer can be based at least in part on the transaction history of the user. Specifically the qualification for the rebate credit may be based at least in part on an aggregate transaction history of the user associated with the customer account identifier. Also the qualification for the rebate credit may be based at least in part on the product identifier corresponding to at least one of a particular product or a vendor.

In various embodiments a product level discount may be facilitated by a point of sale POS terminal during a transaction. The PUS terminal may receive transaction information from at least one of a merchant and a customer generate a transaction identifier wherein the transaction identifier comprises a transaction value a customer account identifier a merchant identifier and a product identifier. The PUS terminal transmits the transaction identifier to a computer based system for managing a product level discount where the computer based system determines whether a transaction qualifies for a rebate credit in accordance with a predefined offer based on at least the product identifier. In an exemplary embodiment a point of sale terminal comprises a network interface communicating with a memory the memory communicating with a processor for managing a product level discount and the processor when executing a computer program is configured to receive at the PUS terminal transaction information from at least one of a merchant and a customer generate a transaction identifier and transmit the transaction identifier to a computer based system for managing a product level discount where the computer based system determines whether a transaction qualifies for a rebate credit in accordance with a discount offer based on the product identifier.

Furthermore in various embodiments the PUS terminal provides the status of the transaction to the computer based system where the computer based system applies the rebate credit to a customer account associated with the customer identifier after the completion of the transaction. The status of the transaction may be completed pending or cancelled. Moreover in various embodiments the merchant may not be informed of the application of the rebate credit to the customer account. In various embodiments the rebate credit may be applied by the POS terminal to the transaction and a request made by the POS terminal for authorization of the transaction after applying the rebate credit.

The transaction process involves two general aspects authorization of the transaction and determination of a product discount qualification. The authorization of a transaction is a well known process and will not be discussed in detail. The product discount qualification involves communicating the product identifier such as a stock keeping unit SKU code from a merchant to a computer based system where the SKU level data includes a routing indicator. The routing indicator may be used to separate the merchant communication into at least two data blocks where the SKU level data block is transmitted to a SKU database. A SKU code is a product identifier that uniquely identifies a particular product manufactured by a specific vendor. The product identifier may also include a transaction amount a card member identifier the SKU code a SKU indicator a merchant identifier and or country of transaction origin.

The product identifier may be communicated to the computer based system in multiple ways. In a first embodiment the product identifier is received from a merchant where the transaction originated. The merchant may send the information via a batch file after a period of time or on an individual transaction basis using the internet or other electronic communication connection. In a second embodiment the product identifier is received from a customer by way of a transaction receipt. The customer may download a smartphone application capable of scanning the transaction receipt e.g. a barcode on the receipt or a photo of the receipt and transmit this information to the computer based system.

As previously mentioned the product level discount management in various embodiments may include determining whether the transaction qualifies for the rebate credit based on at least one of the customer account identifier and the merchant identifier. Furthermore the product level discount management may also include verifying by the computer based system that the transaction has been completed and applying the rebate credit to a customer account associated with the customer identifier after completion of the transaction. The product identifier could be a stock keeping unit SKU code. The SKU code may be the basis for qualifying for the rebate credit. Furthermore a merchant associated with the merchant identifier which is part of the transaction does not need to be informed of the application of the rebate credit to the customer account. From the viewpoint of a merchant a product level discount may be applied post transaction and the merchant may have no knowledge of the applied discount. In various embodiments the product level discount management may include applying the rebate credit to the transaction at the point of sale and determining authorization of the transaction after the applying the rebate credit. In this respect if a customer has a transaction value limit the transaction may be authorized after application of the rebate credit but not without the rebate credit.

The product level discount in various embodiments may include determining whether the transaction qualifies for the rebate credit based on at least one of the customer account identifier and the merchant identifier. Furthermore the product level discount may also include crediting at the POS terminal the rebate credit to the transaction value and completing the transaction.

In various embodiments having the discount applied post transaction verification of several factors may occur before the appropriate discount level is applied. In various embodiments implementation of the product level discount involves little effort on the part of a merchant. The merchant provides the transaction information such as via a point of sale terminal where the transaction information includes the transaction identifier as previously defined. The merchant can opt in to participate in third party product level discounts and have minimal requirements to facilitate such a program. A software update to the POS terminal will often be the only change needed at the merchant. The software update allows the POS terminal to generate and communicate the transaction identifier. A financial institution or any third party establishing the predefined offer receives the transaction identifier. As stated herein the transaction identifier includes a customer account identifier. The customer account identifier may be used to retrieve customer information from a database where the customer information may be part of the discount qualification determination. Such customer information may include geographic location account history prior purchase information both product and merchant based account status prior transaction values loyalty account information and the like.

In addition the POS terminal may also transmit the transaction identifier to a financial institution where the financial institution is separate from the computer based system. As illustrated in a merchant communicates an authorization request and transaction information to a POS terminal . The POS terminal forms a transaction identifier and transmits the transaction identifier to a financial institution . The financial institution receives transaction identifier and separates a product identifier into a product database. A computer based system receives the authorization request from PUS terminal . In various embodiments and with reference to is similar to the prior embodiment except the computer based system is the same as the financial institution. The financial institution is configured upon receipt of the transaction identifier to separate a product identifier from the transaction identifier. The financial institution then authorizes the transaction and determines whether the predefined offer is satisfied by the transaction. The financial institution matches the product information and or the customer information with the merchant or manufacturer offers.

Furthermore a SKU matching process comprises receiving SKU data from the merchant PUS terminal and receiving the predefined offer which is a compilation of the eligible record of charges. The SKU data and the predefined offer are then compared and matching records extracted to aid in the qualification determination. If a discount qualification is determined the qualifying transaction notice is communicated to an internal discount process.

A product level discount management for use in a telecommunications network may also interface with the embodiments herein. In particular such a system includes a mobile communication device configured to communicate over a wireless telecommunication network a telecommunication service provider configured to facilitate a connection to the wireless telecommunication network a rewards management system a financial institution and a communication network providing communication between the telecommunication service provider the rewards management system and the financial institution. The rewards management system includes a loyalty program configured to track activities which generate loyalty benefits store the loyalty benefits and determine a monetary value associated with the loyalty benefits and a loyalty program middleware which facilitates communication of the loyalty program with a financial institution such that the loyalty benefit can be used to satisfy obligations associated with a transaction account issued by the financial institution on the connection.

A product level discount management for a peer to peer transaction may also interface with the embodiments herein. In particular such a system includes first and second personal communication devices configured to participate in a peer to peer transaction a rewards management system and a communication network providing two way communication between one of said personal communication devices and the rewards management system. The rewards management system includes a loyalty program configured to track activities which generate loyalty benefits store the loyalty benefits and determine a monetary value associated with the loyalty benefits and a loyalty program middleware which facilitates communication of the loyalty program with a financial institution such that the loyalty benefit can be used to satisfy obligations associated with a transaction account issued by the financial institution.

Cancellations of registered accounts by enrolled CMs are communicated to loyalty program provider as well as to enrollment so as to maintain enrollee database with up to date enrolled CM information. Cancellations may arise for example from a CM reporting a lost or stolen card or a CM requesting TAP to deregister one or more of its registered cards from the registered card program. In various embodiments enrollee database may be provided with timely and consistent updates to reflect lost and stolen cards. Cancellations may also include deregistration of a CM from one or more particular marketing programs administered by TAP or LPP .

Further description will now be provided with respect to solicitation and enrollment . As noted above with reference to CM may be solicited to join an incentive program offered by TAP via an email invitation from LPP . In this instance a CM may receive a solicitation email providing a link to a loyalty program s website landing page whereby the CM may begin an enrollment process. The enrollment may include for example the steps of agreeing to the incentive program s terms and conditions setting up a username and password and selecting marketing preferences etc. Moreover such an incentive program website may be hosted by LPP and branded by TAP. As such the enrollment process may further include providing TAP with the CM s email address such as when the account holder clicks on the link of the solicitation email to start the enrollment process. TAP may use CM s email address to validate the CM prior to enrollment via validation process . Further the incentive program s website may provide registered CMs with a customized home page where they may be presented with personalized offers such as those identified based on their selected marketing preferences as well as being able to engage in online shopping of goods and services offered by merchants participating in the particular marketing program s in which the account holder enrolls. If a CM receives an email solicitation but is already enrolled in TAP s registered card program then by clicking on the link provided in the solicitation email the already enrolled CM may be prompted to log in to their customized homepage. As noted above a CM may be solicited indirectly simply by being provided with access to a website link to the enrollment webpage and or TAN enrollment webpage for the registered card program. Further enrollment in TAP s registered card program via a TAP hosted website link may allow for enrollment in TAP s marketing programs as well as a marketing program offered in collaboration with one or more loyalty program providers.

Solicitation may further include a pre solicitation process prior to sending a solicitation email to a targeted CM. The pre solicitation process may involve determining which CMs should be targeted and which offer clusters and particular marketing programs the CM may be eligible to participate in pursuant to the registered card program. Accordingly TAP may collaborate with LPP to identify appropriate CMs for email solicitation based on TAP s data on a CM s spending preferences and the LPP s clusters of merchant offers. These identified targeted CMs may then reviewed so as to exclude solicitation of any targeted CMs having opted out of receiving direct marketing materials from TAP or LPP . TAP then provides LPP with a marketing list of targeted CMs and associated identifying information such as salutation name gender and zip code . The marketing list may further be provided to LPP with a given effective period during which solicitation emails may be sent since the list should be updated periodically to exclude CMs from the list that have since opted out of receiving marketing materials. Upon receipt of the marketing list from TAP loyalty program provider sends out email invitations to the targeted CMs.

Enrollment may provide an option to the CM to participate in the registered card program as a preferred enrollee. For example during enrollment an account holder may choose to be eligible for premium offers in exchange for paying an enrollment fee. Alternatively the CM may wish to forego payment of any enrollment fee and be eligible for everyday offers. Preferred i.e. premium customers may also be eligible for everyday offers. TAP s registered card program may therefore offer tiers of offer packages corresponding to the premium and everyday tiers of enrolled account holders. Accordingly RCE during transaction matching may consider whether an enrolled CM is registered as a premium account holder or an everyday account holder so as to identify CM purchases that qualify for a premium offer and or an everyday offer.

An embodiment the TAP collaborates with loyalty program provider will now be described in greater detail with reference to . illustrates transaction based data flow between databases at TAP during transaction matching by RCE . As shown CM enrollee database may include such data as a CM s registration identification RCnumber ID for one or more registered transaction cards linked together in accordance with linking step described above a list of account numbers for these linked cards indication of whether the CM is a premium account holder and whether the CM and or their registered transaction card s are active or canceled pursuant to cancellations shown in . A second enrollee database database identified as LPPnumber and other additional enrollee databases may be provided for enrollees of each distinct loyalty program or program provider. Alternatively a single enrollee database may be provided for all enrollees of the registered card program with another data field provided which identifies the one or more loyalty program providers the CM is associated with. Likewise separate merchant database may be provided for each loyalty program or program provider or a single database may be provided with a data field identifying the merchant with the program s or provider s . Merchant database may include a merchant ID its SE number as well as whether the merchant is actively or inactively enrolled in the registered card program.

Merchant offer database may include an offer ID a corresponding merchant ID a start and end date for the particular offer a description and whether the offer is a premium offer as described above. Since TAP and LPP may each administer marketing programs and since there may be multiple loyalty program providers merchant offer database may also include a field identifying each TAP or LPP marketing program to which the offer belongs. also shows exemplary data contained in output file provided to the loyalty program provider s for discount calculation or discount reversal calculation in the case of return as described above with reference to . In this figure Tx represents the term transaction. As shown output file includes transaction ID transaction date merchant ID and offer ID account holder s registration identification RCnumber transaction amount as well as whether the transaction type is a credit return or a debit purchase .

In this embodiment output file includes CM s RCnumber as a substitute for the CM s actual transaction account number. Output file is provided to LPP for discount calculation and the level of security associated with LPP s network may prohibit allowing LPP using the actual account number as a means to identify the transaction for discount calculation. However it should be understood that for internally calculated discounts 432 described in or in instance where secure networks exists with the loyalty program provider s then output file may contain the particular transaction account number associated with the transaction. As such the discount calculated by LPP may be directly matched with the card number and may also be provided on the statement for a secondary card rather than appearing on the statement of the primary card which may occur when several linked cards are associated with CM s registration identification RCnumber .

Once TAP identifies credit ROCs from participating merchants TAP may compare them to transaction debits stored in transaction database see over a given time period e.g. the last 60 days or the last 90 days to determine whether there exists a debit ROC with the same merchant as the credit ROC for the same registered card. If found TAP further checks to see if the previous transaction was eligible for a rebate credit and the amount of the rebate credit that was provided to the CM. If the previous transaction is eligible for a rebate credit then a debit corresponding to the amount of the rebate credit in full corresponding to full returns or in part corresponding to partial returns is charged to the account holder. These debits thereby adjust the net return credit to equal the original purchase price less the rebate credit. The merchant is reimbursed for the amount of the debited rebate credit and the merchant s reimbursement appears as a credit on the merchant s account. The determination of the discount reversal amount i.e. amount of the debited rebate credit is based on the CM s rebated credit on the original purchase rather than the debit received by the merchant since the merchant s previous debit for the CM s rebate credit may include an associated service fee imposed by TAP and or LPP. As noted above in various embodiments stock keeping units SKUs of purchased goods services are used to match purchases with returns and determine the discount reversal amount. In various embodiments certain assumptions are made in accordance with a return logic policy to do the matching. Exemplary return logic policy is described below with reference to .

At step CM information in enrollee database is used to match registered CMs with ROCs extracted in step and each matched transactions is provided with a transaction ID. In step output file is created of transactions matched in step . At step output file is provided to loyalty program provider for discount discount reversal calculation.

As shown in the LPP receives output file from TAP at step . In step the LPP calculates the discount or negative discount i.e. discount reversal amount for each purchase and return transaction respectively. In step a file including a discount or discount reversal calculation such as file provided to RCE described above in is provided to TAP TAP uses this file at step to update its transaction database with discount amounts or negative discount amounts whereby the original ROC transaction is matched with these discounts or negative discounts. At step TAP creates a file of CM credits and corresponding merchant debits for discounts associated with a purchase. Further TAP may include CM debits and merchant credits for negative discounts associated with returns. In step TAP s SPP shopping portal processor platform is used to create a FinCap file which is provided to FinCap and in step FinCap processes CM discounts i.e. rebate credits and CM discount reversals. In particular as described above in RCE provides TAP s AP accounts payable system with information on merchant debits and credits for processing at step and provides TAP s AR accounts receivable system with information on account holder debits and credits for processing at step . Pursuant to step a merchant s account is debited for the CM s rebated credit may be further debited a service fee and is credited a CM s discount reversal amount in the case of an eligible return. Pursuant to step a CM s account or monthly statement shall show a credited amount in accordance with any rebate credit and a debited amount in accordance with any discount reversal arising from an eligible return.

Methodologies unique to processing of account holder returns by means of a return logic policy in accordance with various embodiments are now described with reference to . In these figures TM tx represents CM transactions which were eligible for a rebate credit in accordance with the TailorMade registered card program described herein. provides examples of actions taken in response to returns. For example in line of a 1 000 return is made on Sep. 1 2006. In response to this return TAP will take no action with respect to debiting any rebate credit because there were no transactions made in the prior 60 days to correspond to the 1 000 return. In line for the same return it is determined that there was a 1 000 purchase within the prior 60 days along with a 100 statement credit. Therefore it is assumed that the 100 statement credit was a rebate credit that must be debited. In line a 400 return is made. In this case a proportional 40 debit is made to correspond to the portion of the rebate credit on the 400 purchase that was returned. Additional examples and assumptions rationales are provided in .

If in line there is no exact matched transaction identified with the return then in line the first transaction in the past 60 days which is greater than the amount of the return is identified with the return. As shown in line transaction for 5000 is the first matched transaction having an amount greater than the return. Since transaction was not discounted then no action is taken with regard to debiting CM. If CM claims that the return is part of transaction and then a debit from the CM s account is made in the amount of the rebate credits 15 and 15 for those transactions. If there is no transaction matched in lines or then in line if the sum of the return is equal or smaller than the sum of all transactions in the past 60 days then it is assumed that the return refers to TM transactions up to 1000 and a debit to CM s account is provided in accordance with the discounts on TM transactions and .

The present system or any part s or function s thereof may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. However the manipulations performed by embodiments were often referred to in terms such as matching or selecting which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein. Rather the operations may be machine operations. Useful machines for performing the various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

In fact in various embodiments the embodiments are directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. An example of a computer system is shown in .

The computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement various embodiments using other computer systems and or architectures.

Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on the display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory such as for example random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and other communications channels.

in this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . These computer program products provide software to computer system .

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features as discussed herein in particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of various embodiments. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system .

In various embodiments software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of various embodiments as described herein.

In various embodiments hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

One skilled in the art will appreciate that system may employ any number of databases in any number of configurations. Further any databases discussed herein may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical graphical object oriented and or other database configurations Common database products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM White Plains N.Y. various database products available from Oracle. Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft Access or Microsoft SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. or any other suitable database product. Moreover the databases may be organized in any suitable manner for example as data tables or lookup tables. Each record may be a single file a series of files a linked series of data fields or any other data structure. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL using a key field in the tables to speed searches sequential searches through all the tables and files sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in pre selected databases or data sectors.

More particularly a key field partitions the database according to the high level class of objects defined by the key field. For example certain types of data may be designated as a key field in a plurality of related data tables and the data tables may then be linked on the basis of the type of data in the key field. The data corresponding to the key field in each of the linked data tables is preferably the same or of the same type. However data tables having similar though not identical data in the key fields may also be linked by using AGREP for example. In accordance with one aspect of system any suitable data storage technique may be utilized to store data without a standard format. Data sets may be stored using any suitable technique including for example storing individual files using an ISO IEC 7816 4 file structure implementing a domain whereby a dedicated file is selected that exposes one or more elementary files containing one or more data sets using data sets stored in individual files using a hierarchical filing system data sets stored as records in a single file including compression SQL accessible hashed via one or more keys numeric alphabetical by first tuple etc. Binary Large Object BLOB stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC 7816 6 data elements stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC Abstract Syntax Notation ASN.1 as in ISO IEC 8824 and 8825 and or other proprietary techniques that may include fractal compression methods image compression methods etc.

in various embodiments the ability to store a wide variety of information in different formats is facilitated by storing the information as a BLOB. Thus any binary information can be stored in a storage space associated with a data set. As discussed above the binary information may be stored on the financial transaction instrument or external to but affiliated with the financial transaction instrument. The BLOB method may store data sets as ungrouped data elements formatted as a block of binary via a fixed memory offset using either fixed storage allocation circular queue techniques or best practices with respect to memory management e.g. paged memory least recently used etc. . By using BLOB methods the ability to store various data sets that have different formats facilitates the storage of data associated with system by multiple and unrelated owners of the data sets. For example a first data set which may be stored may be provided by a first party a second data set which may be stored may be provided by an unrelated second party and yet a third data set which may be stored may be provided by an third party unrelated to the first and second party. Each of these three exemplary data sets may contain different information that is stored using different data storage formats and or techniques. Further each data set may contain subsets of data that also may be distinct from other subsets.

As stated above in various embodiments of system the data can be stored without regard to a common format. However in one exemplary embodiment the data set e.g. BLOB may be annotated in a standard manner when provided for manipulating the data onto the financial transaction instrument. The annotation may comprise a short header trailer or other appropriate indicator related to each data set that is configured to convey information useful in managing the various data sets. For example the annotation may be called a condition header header trailer or status herein and may comprise an indication of the status of the data set or may include an identifier correlated to a specific issuer or owner of the data. In one example the first three bytes of each data set BLOB may be configured or configurable to indicate the status of that particular data set e.g. LOADED INITIALIZED READY BLOCKED REMOVABLE or DELETED. Subsequent bytes of data may be used to indicate for example the identity of the issuer user transaction membership account identifier or the like. Each of these condition annotations are further discussed herein.

The data set annotation may also be used for other types of status information as well as various other purposes. For example the data set annotation may include security information establishing access levels. The access levels may for example be configured to permit only certain individuals levels of employees companies or other entities to access data sets or to permit access to specific data sets based on the transaction merchant issuer user or the like. Furthermore the security information may restrict permit only certain actions such as accessing modifying and or deleting data sets. In one example the data set annotation indicates that only the data set owner or the user are permitted to delete a data set various identified users may be permitted to access the data set for reading and others are altogether excluded from accessing the data set. However other access restriction parameters may also be used allowing various entities to access a data set with various permission levels as appropriate.

The data including the header or trailer may be received by a stand alone interaction device configured to add delete modify or augment the data in accordance with the header or trailer. As such in various embodiments the header or trailer is not stored on the transaction device along with the associated issuer owned data but instead the appropriate action may be taken by providing to the transaction instrument user at the stand alone device the appropriate option for the action to be taken. System contemplates a data storage arrangement wherein the header or trailer or header or trailer history of the data is stored on the transaction instrument in relation to the appropriate data.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems devices servers or other components of system may consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption decryption compression decompression and or the like.

In addition to those described above the various system components discussed herein may include one or more of the following a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data an input digitizer coupled to the processor for inputting digital data an application program stored in the memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital data processed by the processor and a plurality of databases. Various databases used herein may include client data merchant data financial institution data and or like data useful in the operation of the present system. As those skilled in the art will appreciate user computer may include an operating system e.g. Windows NT 95 98 2000 OS2 UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers. The computer may include any suitable personal computer network computer workstation minicomputer mainframe or the like. User computer can be in a home or business environment with access to a network. In an exemplary embodiment access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package.

As used herein the term network includes any cloud cloud computing system or electronic communications system or method which incorporates hardware and or software components. Communication among the parties may be accomplished through any suitable communication channels such as for example a telephone network an extranet an intranet Internet point of interaction device point of sale device personal digital assistant e.g. iPhone Palm Pilot Blackberry cellular phone kiosk etc. online communications satellite communications off line communications wireless communications transponder communications local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN networked or linked devices keyboard mouse and or any suitable communication or data input modality. Moreover although the system is frequently described herein as being implemented with TCP IP communications protocols the system may also be implemented using IPX Appletalk IP 6 NetBIOS OSI any tunneling protocol e.g. IPsec SSH or any number of existing or future protocols. If the network is in the nature of a public network such as the Internet it may be advantageous to presume the network to be insecure and open to eavesdroppers. Specific information related to the protocols standards and application software utilized in connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled in the art and as such need not be detailed herein. See for example DN ISP 1998 J2 C various authors Sybex 1999 DRER MHTML 4.0 1997 and L TCP IP CE 1997 and DGBT HTTP TDG 2002 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

 Cloud or Cloud computing includes a model for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud computing may include location independent computing whereby shared servers provide resources software and data to computers and other devices on demand. For more information regarding cloud computing see the NIST s National Institute of Standards and Technology definition of cloud computing at http csrc.nist.gov groups SNS cloud computing cloud def v15.doc last visited Feb. 4 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In various embodiments components modules and or engines of system may be implemented as micro applications or micro apps. Micro apps are typically deployed in the context of a mobile operating system including for example a Palm mobile operating system a Windows mobile operating system an Android Operating System Apple iOS a Blackberry operating system and the like. The micro app may be configured to leverage the resources of the larger operating system and associated hardware via a set of predetermined rules which govern the operations of various operating systems and hardware resources. For example where a micro app desires to communicate with a device or network other than the mobile device or mobile operating system the micro app may leverage the communication protocol of the operating system and associated device hardware under the predetermined rules of the mobile operating system. Moreover where the micro app desires an input from a user the micro app may be configured to request a response from the operating system which monitors various hardware components and then communicates a detected input from the hardware to the micro app.

The disclosure may be described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example system may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and or the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of system may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C Java COBOL assembler PERL Visual Basic SQL Stored Procedures extensible markup language XML with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that system may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and or the like. Still further system could be used to detect or prevent security issues with a client side scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like. For a basic introduction of cryptography and network security sec any of the following references 1 Applied Cryptography Protocols Algorithms And Source Code In C by Bruce Schneier published by John Wiley Sons second edition 1995 2 Java Cryptography by Jonathan Knudson published by Associates 1998 3 Cryptography Network Security Principles Practice by William Stallings published by Prentice Hall all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

These software elements may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations may be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows web pages web sites web forms prompts etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may comprise in any number of configurations including the use of windows web pages web forms popup windows prompts and or the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be combined into single web pages and or windows but have been expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be separated into multiple web pages and or windows but have been combined for simplicity.

Practitioners will appreciate that there are a number of methods for displaying data within a browser based document. Data may be represented as standard text or within a fixed list scrollable list drop down list editable text field fixed text field pop up window and or the like. Likewise there are a number of methods available for modifying data in a web page such as for example free text entry using a keyboard selection of menu items check boxes option boxes and or the like.

In various embodiments RCP includes application programming interfaces that enable third parties to create configure manage modify update delete report on and enhance reward offers and marketing programs. For example a program provider e.g. an LPP or TAP may wish to create a custom application partner application that serves as a front end or interface to RCP . The partner application accesses RCP via various application programming interfaces APIs . In various embodiments the APIs may include a partner registration API an offer set up API an enrollment API a transaction API a trigger API a partner registration API a reporting API and a marketing channel API. RCP is a robust extensible platform that enables in various embodiments a variety of APIs for accessing a variety of functions. While some APIs may correspond directly to a function that may be desired by a partner others may provide access to core functionality such as for example APIs for accessing workflow functionality or for accessing database query functionality.

Partner registration API may enable a marketing partner to access RCP in order to register with and configure access to RCP . In various embodiments a developer portal provides an interface to partner users and a registration request is sent via partner registration API to RCP . RCP validates the registration request and executes a workflow to provision a partner user identification code user id and an API access code. RCP saves a partner profile in the partner database . In various embodiments RCP allocates memory databases file structure and or other system resources to be used by partner users in testing and in production. In various embodiments based upon a workflow and or predefined business rules RCP executes logic to approve the registration request. The process to approve the registration request may be completely automated and or may comprise steps whereby RCP administrators provide a manual approval. RCP sends the registration information e.g. user id and access code to the partner user. A partner user and or a RCP administrator may also access RCP via partner registration API in order to update partner details and terminate the partner if needed.

Offer setup API may allow a partner to build their own offer set up tool may provide access to their own internal users and or may allow the partner to open up the tool to external users of their application or service e.g. a user base of merchants or a company representing merchants . In various embodiments offer setup API enables receiving a offer setup request parsing the offer set up request into offer parameters validating the offer setup request and or the offer parameters notifying a first approver of the offer setup request receiving from the first approver an approval of the offer set up request saving an offer comprising the first offer parameters associating the offer associated with a marketing program and determining a first population of transaction accounts that comply with first offer criteria.

In various embodiments the parsing includes applying logical and or business rules to a request to divide reorganize translate and or augment the data associated with a request. In various embodiments parsing may be accomplished as part of the data validation process and or as part of populating the data in a database. Data validation includes applying logical and or business rules in order to ensure that data is received in for example an expected format and or structure and that the data conforms in content to business rules that govern the data. Business rules used to parse the data may be based upon for example a partner an offer a product an industry a promotion a program a transaction processor an issuer or any combination of these or other factors. Data that fails validation may cause an error to be sent to the system that sent the data and or may cause RCP administrator staff to examine and or modify the data.

Thus a RCP user e.g. a partner may use offer setup API to configure marketing programs and offers and to determine a population of transaction accounts that may be eligible for a program. Such data may be useful to a marketing partner in analyzing and targeting a particular promotion. Offer setup API may also enable a partner to specify criteria e.g. define qualifying transactions behaviors events or thresholds that qualify for a reward. The offer criteria may include any combination of a customer identifier a customer demographic a customer location spend frequency a spend threshold a spend history an award cap a tiered reward requirement a product identifier a product category a stock keeping unit SKU a universal product code UPC a QR code a merchant a merchant type an industry a merchant location. Thus offer set up API enables a partner to enter maintain analyze reward eligibility and configure RCP to execute the offer. These constructs may enable highly targeted marketing promotions tailored to the specific needs of the partner or the partner s user base. Any or all of these factors may also be used to exclude transaction accounts that may participate in an offer and or provide criteria for excluding or withholding a reward.

In various embodiments offer setup API also enables a partner to configure how offer costs are collected from a participating service establishment e.g. merchant . For example offer costs can be debited from the merchant account associated with where the qualifying transaction actually occurred e.g. where a customer transacted or from a single merchant specified by the partner. Offer setup API also enables a partner to configure the amount currency and manner in which rewards are distributed. For example in addition to fulfilling via statement credits output files can be generated and passed to the partner to enable new types of fulfillment such as social currency. In various embodiments RCP determines that a qualifying transaction and or event has occurred and calculates a reward for a member or transaction account. Distributing the reward may include crediting a first transaction account crediting a second transaction account crediting a rewards account associated with the first transaction account performing a currency conversion crediting a social networking currency and sending reward data to a third party where the third party applies the reward based upon the reward data.

Enrollment API may enable RCP to capture enrollments from programs set up through the offer set up API. It may enable a partner to build their own enrollment functionality and embed the feature into their application. For example a partner may design a rewards program and wish to solicit participation and enable enrollment in the program using a variety of different methods such as via an email message a link a uniform resource locator URL customized web page a web page hosted by the automated marketing system a social networking web site an app a text message and a mobile application. Thus the partner may define via the enrollment API that a web page be generated and hosted via RCP and used to receive and process enrollments in a program. In various embodiments the partner may define via the enrollment API a custom web page or URL by which enrollment may occur and optionally may define a access requirements e.g. user id password for enrolling in a program.

The partner may use e.g. via a custom application or website enrollment API to enter and configure enrollment parameters in RCP . Enrollment parameters may include defining an enrollment process instructions for generating a hosted enrollment page a referral uniform resource locator URL a user id a password a passcode an enrollment timeframe and an enrollment cap and enrollee e.g. offer or program participant tracking data requirements. The enrollee tracking requirements may include a user id email address password product code and transaction location thus the enrollment API is useful in defining how a transaction account or member may enroll in a program and defining data and events by which the partner may track a member s activity. Thus a partner program provider or issuer may capture the user ID e mail phone number password product category or other unique identifier s QR code or marketing channel information and or may track this information during a program in order to enable additional reporting metrics specific product opt ins and or the trigger API functionality discussed below .

Reporting API may enable real time or near real time results to an interfacing system e.g. partner system . Using reporting API the partner can also define reports and data to be distributed to third parties such as for example program participants merchants and customer news sites social media networks etc. Reporting API may provide the ability to define and or access a wide range of cumulative and incremental metrics. The metrics may include for example number of enrollments CV avg. ROC number discounts money discounts or alternate fulfillment method . The partner and the partner s users will also have the ability to opt in for in depth pre post campaign metrics. Additional fields captured during enrollment can also be appended to reporting data and passed back to the partner.

Transaction API may enable a partner to define transactions and or events that trigger data to be shared with a third party. For example a transaction account issuer may allow their customers e.g. transaction account owners to opt in to triggered data sharing so that when a customer initiates a transaction data regarding that transaction is posted to a user s social networking account. For example a customer swipes a transaction account card at a local florist when purchasing flowers RCP receives transaction details from the transaction account authorization process and details regarding the transaction e.g. merchant name location transaction amount product product type time of transaction etc. are sent via transaction API to the Facebook account of the consumer. Thus in various embodiments RCP leverages the transaction account authorization process to provide a new capability which allows customers to share transaction information in real time.

Transaction API may enable a real time service allowing customers to automatically share their spend behavior with social networks smartphone applications and other 3rd party destinations. In various embodiments customers opt in for this service and select criteria for their spend information will be shared e.g. only share transactions at restaurants but never share transactions at jewelry stores. 

In various embodiments RCP receives via transaction API a data sharing opt in associated with the first transaction account wherein the data sharing opt in defines data sharing transactions for which the first user authorizes personal data sharing. RCP obtains transaction notification data for a transaction authorization request associated with the first transaction account and determines that the transaction authorization request qualifies as a data sharing transaction. RCP sends data associated with the transaction authorization request to at least one of a web site a social networking site a social networking application a third party an individual and a social networking account of a friend.

Trigger API may enable a partner to define conditions and or events that trigger a message or data alerts to be sent passed to the partner or other 3rd parties. In various embodiments trigger API enables a partner to configure and manage managed alerts or alerts for its users who are merchants or representing merchants . The partner may configure trigger alerts based on any data accessible to RCP e.g. customer merchant or product specific data any calculation or business rule associated with the data e.g. a counter accumulation or threshold .

In various embodiments RCP receives via a trigger API a triggered event request defining triggered alert parameters for triggered offer alerts wherein the triggered event parameters define offer alerts based upon at least one of a number of enrollments for an offer a number of authorization requests associated with an offer a number of authorization requests associated with a transaction account an award cap an award threshold a tiered reward requirement a product identifier a product category a stock keeping unit SKU a QR code a universal product code UPC a merchant a merchant type an industry a merchant location and an marketing program result. In various embodiments RCP receives via a trigger API a triggered event request defining triggered alert parameters for triggered customer alerts wherein the triggered event parameters define customer alerts based upon at least one of offer progress program progress authorization requests associated with an offer spend associated with an offer spend associated with a program spend associated with a merchant a cross promotion a second offer an offer achievement and a customized message RCP monitors it s databases and event logs for criteria for which a trigger is defined formats a trigger alert and distributes the alert according to distribution criteria defined by the particular trigger parameters.

Marketing channel API may enable a partner to query offer database and or other data sources. For example via offer setup API a restaurant offers for 5 credit for all meals purchased on Sundays and offers 1 of the transaction value to marketing partners that sign up customers. A marketing channel partner e.g. Groupon uses marketing channel API to query the database find this offer and opt in to promoting the offer through the marketing channel. The marketing channel partner uses marketing channel API to determine merchant name offer details logo Ts Cs dates etc. offer construct merchant location address and longitude latitude for use in the promotion.

In various embodiments RCP receives from a requestor and via a marketing channel API a marketing channel request for a list of at least one of marketing channels offers and programs. RCP sends via the marketing channel API the list to the requestor associated with the marketing channel request. The list includes a merchant name program details offer details offer terms and conditions an advertisement a logo and or a merchant location RCP receives via the marketing channel API a marketing channel opt in request associates the requestor with at least one of a marketing channel a program and an offer associated with the opt in request.

The detailed description of exemplary embodiments herein makes reference to the accompanying drawings and pictures which show the exemplary embodiment by way of illustration and its best mode. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and mechanical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented. Moreover any of the functions or steps may be outsourced to or performed by one or more third parties. Furthermore any reference to singular includes plural embodiments and any reference to more than one component may include a singular embodiment.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any elements that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of the disclosure. The scope of the disclosure is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more Moreover where a phrase similar to at least one of A B or C is used in the claims or specification it is intended that the phrase be interpreted to mean that A alone may be present in various embodiments B alone may be present in various embodiments C alone may be present in various embodiments or that any combination of the elements A B and C may be present in a single embodiment for example A and B A and C B and C or A and B and C. All structural chemical and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiments that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Further a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus.

