---

title: Virtual advertising platform
abstract: In embodiments, a virtual advertising platform may use a three-dimensional mapping algorithm to insert a virtual image within a digital video stream. The virtual advertising platform may apply a three-dimensional mapping algorithm to the virtual digital image, wherein the three-dimensional mapping algorithm causes the virtual digital image to be recomposited within a plurality of frames within a received two-dimensional digital data feed in place of a spatial region within the two-dimensional data feed. The mapping algorithm may enable application of analogous geometric changes to the virtual digital image that are present in the spatial region within the plurality of video frames within the two-dimensional digital video data feed, and may send the recomposited digital data feed for display to a user, wherein the recomposited digital data feed is a virtualized digital data feed that includes the virtual digital image in place of the spatial region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09013553&OS=09013553&RS=09013553
owner: Rocks International Group Pte Ltd.
number: 09013553
owner_city: The Bayshore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20120224
---
This application claims the benefit of the following commonly owned United Kingdom and Singapore patent applications each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety United Kingdom Patent Application No. 1114938.2 filed Aug. 31 2011 United Kingdom Patent Application No. 1119612.8 filed Nov. 14 2011 entitled The Chameleon Project and Singapore Patent Application No. 201106633 9 filed Sep. 14 2011 entitled The Chameleon Project.

The invention is related to methods and systems for inserting virtual video content into digital video data.

Digital advertising and video manipulation methods exist in various forms. Television systems have been developed where digital content is presented on static green screens in stadiums for example. These techniques are limited in a variety of ways and thus there exists a need for improving them.

Currently there exist methods and systems for projecting virtual video content within a fixed region of a video frame as a replacement for the content originally recording in a digital video data feed. However these methods and systems typically use a fixed field with defined perimeter such as an area of a sport event s field of play to determine the region of the digital video data feed in which to insert the virtual video content. Such methods and systems do not enable the insertion of virtual video content into a spatial region of a digital video feed that experiences area changes to that spatial region over a plurality of video frames within the digital video data feed due to for example the movement of a human athlete s sports jersey that is recorded in the digital video data feed.

Accordingly there exists a need for methods and systems for inserting virtual video content into a digital video data feed where the virtual video content is spatially altered in a manner analogous to the spatial region of the digital video data feed in which the virtual content is to be placed within a recomposited digital video data feed.

In embodiments the present invention may provide a method and system for using three dimensional simulation to quantify the spatial alteration of a region of a two dimensional digital video image caused by movement of the region between a first and a second video frame for at least the purposes of inserting a virtual video content item into a digital video feed. In embodiments a virtual advertising platform may receive a two dimensional digital video data feed and construct a three dimensional simulation of the two dimensional digital video data feed within a simulation environment based at least in part on applying geometric surfaces over a plurality of spatial regions within frames of the two dimensional digital video data feed wherein the plurality of spatial regions are defined at least in part by a coordinate mapping of the two dimensional digital video data feed. The virtual advertising platform may map a spatial region among the plurality of spatial regions within a first video frame to the spatial region s location with a second video frame wherein the second video frame was captured in a time subsequent to the first frame by performing the steps of Step One selecting the spatial region within the first video frame based at least in part on mapping coordinates of the spatial region within the two dimensional video data feed Step Two identifying geometric changes to the spatial region within the second video frame by quantifying the differences between the applied geometric surfaces of the spatial region within the first video frame and the applied geometric surfaces in the second video frame and Step Three summarizing the quantified differences as a three dimensional mapping metric. The virtual advertising platform may iteratively process each of a plurality of video frames within the two dimensional digital video feed by performing Steps One Two and Three to create a plurality of three dimensional mapping metrics and may summarize quantitative associations among the plurality of three dimensional mapping metrics as a three dimensional mapping algorithm wherein the three dimensional mapping algorithm defines at least in part three dimensional geometric position data that enables application of geometric changes to the spatial region inherent in the plurality of video frames to a virtual digital video image that is not present in the two dimensional digital video data feed

In embodiments the virtual digital video image may be an advertisement that is inserted into the spatial region of the two dimensional digital data feed replacing the spatial region and the two dimensional digital video image is recomposited as a new virtual digital video feed. The digital video feed may derive from an infrared camera. The digital video feed may be received from a live event. The digital video feed may be received from a stored digital video medium such as but not limited to a DVD. The digital video feed may be received from the Internet.

In embodiments the selection within the virtual advertising platform of the spatial region may be further based on a correlation between mapping coordinates of the spatial region with a known spatial characteristic that is stored within a data facility that is associated with the three dimensional simulation environment. The known spatial characteristic may be an advertising logo an article of clothing or some other type of spatial characteristic.

In embodiments the virtual advertising platform may use a three dimensional mapping algorithm to insert a virtual image within an internet based video stream. The virtual advertising platform may receive a request from a user to view a two dimensional digital video data feed from the Internet and select a virtual digital image. The virtual advertising platform may apply a three dimensional mapping algorithm to the virtual digital image wherein the three dimensional mapping algorithm causes the virtual digital image to be recomposited within a plurality of frames within the two dimensional digital data feed in place of a spatial region within the two dimensional data feed and wherein the three dimensional mapping algorithm enables application of analogous geometric changes to the virtual digital image that are present in the spatial region within the plurality of video frames within the two dimensional digital video data feed and may send the recomposited digital data feed for display to the user wherein the recomposited digital data feed is a virtualized digital data feed that includes the virtual digital image in place of the spatial region. In embodiments the request is accompanied by at least one datum relating to a characteristic of the user and the selection of the virtual digital image is based at least in part on a relevance to the datum.

The virtual digital image may be an item of sponsored content including but not limited to an advertisement. The virtual digital image may be an advertising logo that is relevant to at least a portion of the two dimensional digital video feed. The relevance of the advertising logo may be based at least in part on a stored association between the advertising logo and a second logo that is recognized in the two dimensional digital video feed wherein detection of the second logo is based at least in part on a quantified match between an image recognized in the two dimensional digital video feed and a logo that is stored in a database. The relevance may be further based on a geographic location associated with the two dimensional digital video feed. The relevance may be further based on a geographic location associated with a client device to which the recomposited digital video feed will be transmitted.

In embodiments the virtual advertising platform may use a three dimensional mapping algorithm to interpolate video data to replace corrupted digital video data and insert a virtual image within a two dimensional digital video feed. The virtual advertising platform may receive a two dimensional digital video data feed wherein a spatial region within the plurality of frames within the two dimensional video data feed includes a partial depiction of an advertisement due to corrupted digital video data and use an image metrics algorithm to compute a relevance of uncorrupted digital video data within the spatial region to a set of stored digital video images. The virtual advertising platform may identify a stored digital video image based at least in part on the computed relevance and select a virtual digital image based at least in part on the identified stored digital video image. The virtual advertising platform may apply a three dimensional mapping algorithm to the virtual digital image wherein the three dimensional mapping algorithm causes the virtual digital image to be recomposited within a plurality of frames within the two dimensional digital data feed in place of the spatial region within the two dimensional data feed and wherein the three dimensional mapping algorithm enables application of analogous geometric changes to the virtual digital image that are present in the spatial region within the plurality of video frames within the two dimensional digital video data feed and the virtual advertising platform may send the recomposited digital data feed for display to a user wherein the recomposited digital data feed is a virtualized digital data feed that includes the virtual digital image in place of the spatial region.

In embodiments the virtual digital image may be a completed version of the partial image wherein the virtual digital image is created based at least in part on interpolated digital video data using the stored digital video image. The corrupted digital video data may be caused at least in part by a physical deformation of a object depicted within the two dimensional digital video data feed.

These and other systems methods objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the drawings. All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

Detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open transition . The term coupled or operatively coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically.

Referring to in embodiments of the present invention a virtual advertising platform is provided in a simplified video broadcasting context in which the virtual advertising platform may be used to insert virtual video content within a digital video data feed that is received by a virtual advertising platform to create a virtualized digital video feed . A digital video feed may originate with a camera at a live event that is recording the live event in real time or broadcasting the live event with a broadcasting delay. A digital video feed may also originate from rebroadcast programming such as that from a network affiliate rebroadcasting previously recorded studio recordings such as a sitcom or a previously recorded sports event such as an international football match. In embodiments a digital video feed may originate from a stored digital video medium such as a DVD camcorder mobile device computer or some other medium that is capable of storing digital video. In embodiments a digital video feed may originate from an internet based video platform such as a website email attachment live video streaming e.g. a webcam or an internet telephony program such as Skype computer user upload to the internet e.g. to a website such as www.YouTube.com or some other means of internet based video transmission.

In embodiments the virtual advertising platform may receive the digital video feed . The receipt of the digital video feed may be passive as in the embodiment of a third party actively sending the digital video feed to the virtual advertising platform that passively receives the digital video feed or the virtual advertising platform may actively seek out and obtain a digital video feed including actively seeking to obtain a digital video feed or plurality of digital video feeds that meet a criterion. In an example the virtual advertising platform may be programmed to compare a dataset against a datum or data relating to digital video feeds such as keywords locations broadcast locations or some other criteria. The virtual advertising platform may include a search and retrieval facility that is enabled to search among available digital video feeds according to a criterion or criteria. For example the virtual advertising platform may search a website for a digital video feed that is associated with a keyword of music video and retrieve the video for example via download for further rendering and recompositing within the virtual advertising platform .

A digital video feed may be received by the virtual advertising platform which performs a series of steps to recomposite the digital video feed as a virtualized digital video feed in which the originally received digital video feed is rendered to include at least one component of virtual video content e.g. an advertisement that was not present in the originally received digital video feed . In embodiments the virtual video content may be a wholly new element of video or it may be an improvement or enhancement of an item of video content found in the originally received digital video feed such as a new video enhancement which corrects corrupted video data and or video data in the original digital video feed that was obscured in some manner.

Referring to in embodiments an image processing platform associated or within the virtual advertising platform may be responsible for analyzing an incoming digital video feed also referred to herein as a video video content video stream and the like in real time performing the detection of logos or other video content including but not limited to advertising content recovering geometrical and appearance parameters for the detected logos or detected content and transmitting encoded metadata required for later augmentation with replacement logos.

The process may begin with the virtual advertising platform decoding an incoming digital video feed using a current frame or a frame previous to a current frame thus extracting raw color pixels for analysis. The process may be used to select a prototype logo herein referred to as Logo N for detection in the current frame and or previous frame based at least in part by accessing detection databases consisting of any number of prototype logos for a particular event as well as an optional database consisting of event specific prototype images of objects upon which logos are present background targets . In embodiments the a logo within the digital video feed may be detected based at least in part on a partial match or recognition of a logo or other type of video content within the digital video feed . The prototype images in the detection databases may undergo an image analysis step in which the information including but not limited to the following is extracted in order to form a unique representation of the logo and optionally the background targets 

The virtual advertising platform may enable detection of salient features where the salient regions consist of heterogeneous regions within an otherwise generally symmetrical or homogenous image.

The virtual advertising platform may enable detection of spatial patterns where the spatial patterns consist of the encoding of textures and uniform color intensity regions together with their spatial relationships.

The virtual advertising platform may enable detection of spectral distribution where the spectral distribution consists of a summary of color and intensity information.

The virtual advertising platform may enable a zoom level comparison and the algorithm as described herein that is used as part of image recognition and detection may enable adaptation to a plurality of zoom levels that are present within the video feed.

An incoming video image may undergo a similar extraction of saliency spatial patterns and spectral distribution followed by a comparison between these characteristics and those of prototype logos detection . The detection phase may carry out comparisons between the various features at multiple scales of zoom and may be able to detect multiple instances of the same logo. The same process may be carried out for each logo in the database in order to determine a match between the video image in the received video stream and the stored image or logo e.g. Logo N in the prototype logos and or prototype objects databases. Temporal smoothing of detection results may be based on storage of detections from previous image frames making use of physical constraints and predictive filtering to reduce jitter . The detection phase may indicate locations and identities of logos in the scene which as shown in may be followed by a pose estimation algorithm process in which the geometrical positioning of the detected logo in the scene is ascertained within a 3 D environment . This accounts for detecting logo translations logo scalings logo rotations shearing and warping of a detected logo as compared to a database prototype resulting in metadata encoding of these spatial parameters. A detected and geometry corrected logo may undergo an alignment procedure in order to reconstruct a pixel to pixel mapping between the two logos such as Logo N from the digital video feed and a Logo X obtained from a replacement logos database for the purpose of selecting the replacement logo to insert as a virtual content item into the digital video feed in place of Logo N see . The Logo X may be aligned and major discrepancies between the aligned pair of Logo N and Logo X may be used to construct an occlusion mask based at least in part on applying geometric features of the logos to the alignment step and thus accounting for partial occlusions that exist between the camera and target and partial obscuration due to viewing angle or some other type of viewing obstruction or occlusion e.g. due to folds in fabric such as a player s jersey or light reflection from the side of an object . The occlusion mask may be encoded into an outgoing metadata structure for the augmented phase and applied as part of the augmentation process. In the next phase color differences between a recovered logo and a prototype may be assessed and encoded as a color transformation matrix and applied during the augmentation process for later correction of the augmented logo. The transformation parameters may be added to the metadata structure. Similarly specular as opposed to uniform lighting effects may be accounted for by detecting anomalous lighting patterns in the aligned image pair. This information may be encoded into the metadata structure for specular reflection compensation in the augmentation phase. A blending algorithm may involve extracting pixel properties in the vicinity of the detected logo. These properties may be encoded into the metadata structure to allow for a natural blending at the augmentation phase particularly at the edges of replacement logos . The blending algorithm may be used to create an augmented video stream . The augmented video stream may be a virtualized digital video stream that may be transmitted to other entities and client devices for viewing.

As depicted in the virtual advertising platform may include an algorithm testing and learning facility that may rank prioritize and optimize the performance of the algorithms used by the virtual advertising platform for the placement of virtual video content within a digital video feed. Following the detection of an algorithm as described herein a detected algorithm may be tested against a criterion and its performance scored ranked or otherwise evaluated for its value in recognizing and detecting a target logo .

Referring again to in embodiments following the compositing of the virtual video element within the originally received digital video feed a virtualized digital video feed may be created and distributed by the virtual advertising platform . The virtualized digital video feed may be distributed to entities such as but not limited to a master control booth such as that associated with a network broadcaster a regional broadcaster such as a local affiliate of a network broadcaster the internet such as a website or some other entity capable of receiving a video distribution. Data and or metadata may be associated with the virtualized digital video feed including but not limited to tracking data such as cookies or pixel tracking data that permits the distribution of the virtualized digital video feed to be tracked recorded and shared with parties including the virtual advertising platform . An entity such as a regional broadcaster internet website or some other entity may receive the virtualized digital video feed and transmit it to a client device including but not limited to an internet enabled device TV phone or some other device capable of displaying a digital video. A user of the client device may then view an instance of the virtualized digital video feed and data confirming this viewing instance may be further transmitted for example on the basis of the tracking data to an entity such as the virtual advertising platform . The virtual advertising platform may receive and store this user viewing data along with a plurality of users viewing data and use this information at least in part for the purposes of determining a relevancy for a type of virtual video content to insert within a digital video feed . User data such as demographic economic and usage history relating to a user may be associated with a client device and this data may also be received and stored by the virtual advertising platform along with a plurality of users data and use this information at least in part for the purposes of determining a relevancy for a type of virtual video content to insert within a digital video feed .

In embodiments virtual video content that is used by the virtual advertising platform to include within a virtualized digital video feed may be sponsored content such as an advertisement. Sponsored content may be further associated with an ad exchange or ad network within which advertisers may place bids using a bidding platform for the right to have a given sponsored content placed as a virtual content within a virtualized digital video feed .

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may be used to insert virtual content other than advertisements or sponsored content including but not limited to entertainment video amateur video special effects of some other type of non advertising content.

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may be used to insert virtual video content into a three dimensional digital video data feed.

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may receive a digital video data feed. A digital video data feed may derive from a 2 D camera a 3 D camera an infrared camera a stereoscopic camera or some other type of camera. The virtual advertising platform may map a region within a first video frame of the digital video data feed to the region within a second video frame by performing the steps of i selecting the region within the first video frame based at least in part on recognition of data e.g. pixel data steganographic data within the region matching that of a video data criterion e.g. indexed image video segments of known advertisements ii selecting the region from a second video frame within the digital video data feed captured by the stereoscopic camera at a time subsequent to the first frame and associating the first location of the region in three dimensional video space in the first video frame with the second location of the region in three dimensional video space in the second video frame wherein the association is based at least in part on quantitative analysis as described herein of data within the region in the first and second frames and iii summarizing and storing the association as a three dimensional mapping metric. The virtual advertising platform may segment the region into a plurality of region segments and iteratively processing the plurality of region segments within the region by performing Steps i ii and iii for each region segment to create a plurality of three dimensional mapping metrics wherein each three dimensional mapping metric summarizes a location within the three dimensional space for each of the plurality of region segments across each of the frames within the digital video data feed. The virtual advertising platform may summarize the association among the plurality of three dimensional mapping metrics as a three dimensional mapping algorithm and a replacement video region may be mapped to the region within the first video frame wherein the mapping is a quantitative association of data e.g. pixel data steganographic data within the replacement video region and the region within the first video frame. The virtual advertising platform may manipulate video data of the replacement video region based at least in part on the application of the three dimensional mapping algorithm to render a second version of the replacement video region suitable for placement within the second video frame wherein the rendering of the replacement video region is visually and or quantitatively equivalent to the alteration in three dimensional space of the region in the first and second frames that is summarized by the three dimensional mapping metric.

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may receive a digital video data feed. A digital video data feed may derive from a 2 D camera a 3 D camera an infrared camera a stereoscopic camera or some other type of camera. The virtual advertising platform may map a region within a first video frame of the digital video data feed to the region within a second video frame by performing the steps of i selecting the region within the first video frame based at least in part on recognition of data e.g. pixel data steganographic data within the region matching that of a video data criterion e.g. indexed image video segments of known advertisements ii selecting the region from a second video frame within the digital video data feed captured by the stereoscopic camera at a time subsequent to the first frame and associating the first location of the region in three dimensional video space in the first video frame with the second location of the region in three dimensional video space in the second video frame wherein the association is based at least in part on quantitative analysis of data within the region in the first and second frames and iii summarizing and storing the association as a three dimensional mapping metric. The virtual advertising platform may segment the region into a plurality of region segments and iteratively processing the plurality of region segments within the region by performing Steps i ii and iii for each region segment to create a plurality of three dimensional mapping metrics wherein each three dimensional mapping metric summarizes a location within the three dimensional space for each of the plurality of region segments across each of the frames within the digital video data feed. The virtual advertising platform may summarize the association among the plurality of three dimensional mapping metrics as a three dimensional mapping algorithm and a replacement video region may be mapped to the region within the first video frame wherein the mapping is a quantitative association of data e.g. pixel data steganographic data within the replacement video region and the region within the first video frame. The virtual advertising platform may manipulate video data of the replacement video region based at least in part on the application of the three dimensional mapping algorithm to render a second version of the replacement video region suitable for placement within the second video frame wherein the rendering of the replacement video region is visually and or quantitatively equivalent to the alteration in three dimensional space of the region in the first and second frames that is summarized by the three dimensional mapping metric. In embodiments the virtual advertising platform may iteratively manipulate video data of a plurality of replacement video regions based at least in part on the application of the three dimensional mapping algorithm wherein the iterative manipulation produces a plurality of replacement video regions each of which corresponds to one frame of a series of series of frames within the digital video data feed. The virtual advertising platform may aggregate each of the plurality of replacement video regions to create a plurality of composite replacement video images wherein each of the plurality of composite replacement video images corresponds to each of the frames of the series of frames within the digital video data feed. Each of the composite replacement video images may be validated against a criterion replacement image wherein the validation is summarized as a quantitative validity metric and the three dimensional mapping algorithm may iteratively adjust to optimize the predictive validity of the quantitative validity metric.

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may recomposite the digital data feed into a new digital data feed in which the placement of the composite replacement video images is substituted for content within the digital video feed and rebroadcast the new digital data feed.

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may enable data interpolation to fill in missing video imagery due to obfuscation from for example sun reflection or dimmed lighting folded clothing blocked images obfuscated images and the like.

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may insert tracking data into a recomposited virtual video feed so that downstream usage may be tracked e.g. internet streamed content .

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may use a distributed computing environment and receive video data at a server from a digital video data feed e.g. from a Master Control Booth and segment the video data into a plurality of video data segments distributing the plurality of video data segments to a plurality of servers wherein the plurality of servers are within a distributed computing environment .

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may select a virtual video content for placement within a digital video data feed using the methods described herein wherein the selection is based at least in part on information relating to at least one of i a broadcast affiliate. ii a regional code associated with a distribution destination and or iii a device on which the digital video feed will be displayed e.g. a cable settop box or cell phone .

In embodiments of the present invention the virtual advertising platform may place a virtual video content into a video data feed based at least in part on the selection of a virtual video content from a dictionary in which video content stored within the dictionary is associated with metadata that describes in part a mapping onto known advertisements for which the video in the dictionary may be substituted.

In embodiments an ad exchange may be associated with the virtual advertising platform as described herein may present a mode of enabling advertisements through various online portals such as websites by creating a platform for integrating various entities involved in the preparation and delivery of sponsored content such as advertisements. It may act as a single platform for enabling transactions between the advertiser and publishers. The integration of various services in a single platform may facilitate bidding of advertisements for example using a bidding platform in real time dynamic pricing customizable reporting capabilities identification of target advertisers and market niches rich media trafficking algorithms for scalability yield management data enablement and the like. In addition API s for interfacing with other platforms e.g. the virtual advertising platform ad networks brokers and the like may be provided in order to build a globally distributed facility for seamless integration. An ad exchange may be implemented through various electronic and communication devices that may support networking Some examples of such devices may include but are not limited to desktops palmtops laptops mobile phones cell phones and the like. It may be understood by a person ordinarily skilled in the art that various wired or wireless techniques may be employed to support networks of these devices with external communication platforms such as Cellular WIFI LAN WAN MAN Internet and the like. A complete system of an ad exchange hereinafter referred to as an ad exchange for descriptive purposes may include entities such as ad exchange servers ad inventories ad networks ad agencies advertisers publishers virtual advertising platform facilities and the like. The detailed description of some of these entities is provided herein separately for simplicity of the description.

An ad exchange server may include one or more servers that may be configured to provide web services or other kind of services for facilitating placement of sponsored content such as insertion of sponsored content on websites. Likewise an ad exchange server may be a computer server such as a web server that may perform the tasks of storing online advertisements and delivering the advertisements to website users or viewers mobile network providers other platforms such as a virtual advertising platform and the like. The ad exchange server may facilitate display of relevant advertisements and information each time a visitor or a user visits a webpage using a web browser or refreshes the web page. The advertisements may be in the form of virtual video content banner ads contextual ads behavioral ads interstitial ads and the like. The ad exchange server may perform the task of keeping a log of the number of impressions and clicks record traffic data number of users IP address of the users for identifying spam and the like. Logs may be utilized for creating statistical graphs for analyzing traffic flow of packets routing paths and the like. Further a database may be maintained by the ad exchange server to store information related to the users of webpages and client devices and to store their behavioral and contextual information. This behavioral and contextual information may be used by the ad exchange server and by the virtual advertising platform to present relevant advertisements to the user in the form of virtual video content that is inserted into a digital video feed . For example contextual information relating to a client device may indicate that a language setting on the device is set so that the default language is English. This contextual information may be used at least in part by the virtual advertising platform to select virtual video content that is based on English for insertion within a digital video feed in place of non English elements present in the digital video feed . The database may be updated by the ad exchange server periodically or when triggered by an ad exchange server owner. The database may be a standalone database or may be a distributed database and may be further associated with the virtual advertising platform .

In embodiments a publisher may be an owner of an ad exchange server. Such a deployment may be called a local ad exchange server since the ad exchange server is controlled and maintained by the publisher and the ad exchange server may serve only the publisher. However an ad exchange server may also be deployed and hosted by a third party. Such a deployment is called a third party server or a remote server since the owner of the ad exchange server and the web server are different. In this scenario a direct link may be maintained between the ad exchange server owner third party and the publisher to keep the publisher updated regarding online advertisements on the web page and any transaction therein. In a remote server mode of deployment of the ad exchange server the ad exchange server may serve numerous domains owned by various publishers differently.

In accordance to various embodiments of the present invention several other tasks may be performed by the ad exchange server. The ad exchange server may assist in uploading advertisements or any other similar content on the web page including loading content such as digital video feeds to the virtual advertising platform . The ad exchange server may also facilitate in downloading a downloadable content of the advertisements or a portion of the advertisements as defined by the restrictions imposed by advertisers. Further an ad exchange server may also be utilized in avoiding ads trafficking on a web page or web pages. The trafficking may be avoided based on the defined criteria and parameters regarding business and commercial viabilities and importance.

In embodiments an ad exchange server may apply a cap or a limit to the number of times a sponsored content such as virtual video content is displayed thereby setting a limit on the usage based on the money invested for online advertisements. In other instances an ad exchange server may disable the display of certain advertisements based on the user s context and behavior. Furthermore the time period for displaying advertisements to users may be controlled by the ad exchange server and this information used by the virtual advertising platform for the purposes of selecting the type of virtual content to include in a virtualized digital video feed . In an example the time period may be set uniform for all users or may vary for various users based on the behavioral contextual or other information gathered by the ad exchange server or contextual information previously stored in a database including a database that is associated with the virtual advertising platform . In certain implementations of the present invention the ad exchange server may inform the sequence of advertisements used by the virtual advertising platform for placing virtual content within a digital video feed base at least in part on the interests and user data of a user.

In embodiments owners of ad inventories may be advertisers who desire to display the content such as virtual content that is placed by the virtual advertising platform within a digital video feed and the like. The advertisers may purchase a portion of space within a digital video feed for the display of their inventories and advertisements. Ad inventories may be stored in or accessed by an ad exchange server or the virtual advertising platform from where the inventories may be fetched for displaying within a digital video feed . These inventories may then be added to the allocated space within a digital video feed by the virtual advertising platform and or the owner of a digital video feed . The allocation of space to the ad inventories and display of the content of the ad inventories may be governed by the ad exchange Server and or by parameters within the virtual advertising platform .

In embodiments an advertiser is a buying entity in an ad exchange that may provide sponsored content advertisements and other similar content to parties that are capable of placing the content including the virtual advertising platform that is enabled to place video content within a digital video feed . In a general scenario thousands of advertisers may be connected to numerous publishers through ad exchange servers. The advertisers might not be directly linked to an ad exchange server but rather an intermediate system such as an ad network or an ad agency may be provided where various advertisers may be linked or represented in the ad exchange . Advertisers may place bids for purchasing a defined space within a virtualized digital video feed for the placement of sponsored content such as advertisement and the space required for the advertisements with other relevant details. The advertisements may be classified by the virtual advertising platform according to the criteria defined in an intermediate system such as costs contexts relevancy of the content relative to digital video feed content and the like. Classified sponsored content may then be sorted and prioritized by the virtual advertising platform and the advertiser with the highest bid may be provided the required space to place sponsored content within a virtualized digital video feed . Advertisers may also opt for purchasing the space from several publishers of digital video feeds .

In embodiments a publisher may be a seller who owns or operates display locations such as websites that are able to display digital video feeds and virtualized digital video feeds and to sell a defined space to the advertisers on a for example web page. Advertisers may interact with publishers through the intermediate system such as an ad network an ad exchange through the virtual advertising platform and the like as described herein for buying or selling purposes. Publishers may allocate the space within a digital video feed and the virtual advertising platform may add sponsored content video inventory or advertisement content in the form of video within the allocated space. Publishers and or the virtual advertising platform may forecast the number of impressions that may occur during a particular period of time such as a day or a month on a specific web page. With this forecasted information and the information related to the already allocated space publishers and or the virtual advertising platform may predict the amount of space that may further be sold. This space that may further be sold to an advertiser or an agent or any other buying entity may be termed as an asset. The publisher and or the virtual advertising platform may also classify the inventories and video media based on several criteria as defined herein. The categorization may be performed either manually or using an automated system such as by a programmed algorithm. The manual classification may involve persons that may review and analyze the video content of digital video feeds and based on the review and analysis the video content may be classified into various categories. The classification may also be performed through automated system such as through a virtual advertising platform as described herein. A programmed algorithm for automated classification may be stored in the virtual advertising platform which is enabled to review and analyze digital video feeds and classify the digital video feeds into defined categories. The classification technique may provide an additional advantage to the publishers and advertisers in several ways. For example by estimating the level of relevancy of a video inventory sponsored video content or advertising content to a given digital video feed the publisher may demand higher charges since the probability of gaining interest in the advertising content is higher while the user views a virtualized digital video feed in which a relevant sponsored video content is inserted. Similarly a digital video feed may be prioritized as more relevant if it is more probabilistic that a greater number of video viewings will be made per unit time. Data relating to the viewing history of digital video feeds may be collected stored and analyzed by the virtual advertising platform .

In embodiments an ad exchange may implement algorithms which may allow the publishers to price ad impressions during bidding in real time. Apart from selecting the bidder on predefined criteria an ad exchange may ensure that the bids submitted by the advertisers may neither be undervalued nor overvalued. An ad exchange may automatically generate maximum return on every impression. In addition the reporting of sales data may be presented to the publishers in a simplified format for easy understanding. The publishers may be authorized to identify the brands and or product preferred by them for placement of ad impressions. Likewise an ad exchange may allow the publishers to restrict certain brands contents formats and like based to their preferences.

In embodiments ad networks may be a group of publishers and or advertisers that are connected together. An ad network may be an organization or an entity that may connect web sites that want to host advertisements with advertisers who want to run advertisements. An ad network may be of categorized as a representative network blind network and targeted network. Representative networks allow full transparency of content to the advertisers. On the other hand blind networks may provide a low price to advertisers at the cost of the freedom to decide the placement of advertisements on the publisher s web page. Target networks may be directed to specific targeting technologies including analyzing behavioral or contextual information of the users as described herein and as may be collected stored and analyzed by the virtual advertising platform .

In embodiments the virtual video content that is available through the virtual advertising platform created within the virtual advertising platform or associated with the virtual advertising platform may be syndicated to users client devices using a syndication facility based at least in part on using contextual information associated with the virtual video content and or content similar to the virtual video content and including sponsored content in order to determine the relevancy using a relevancy determination facility of virtual video content to a criterion such as a keyword associated with the virtual video content usage history of the content and or metadata that is associated with the virtual video content. Relevancy may be based at least in part on a relevancy between contextual data associated with the virtual video content and user data . In an example a virtual video content selection criterion may be derived by the virtual advertising platform based at least in part on a user s prior usage of and behaviors within a client device including but not limited to prior video viewings made on the client device such as an internet enabled device . For example a user viewing a virtualized digital video feed on a client device that derives from the virtual advertising platform may have previously searched retrieved used or interacted with virtual video content that is associated with metadata such as an URL indicating an amateur video posting website like YouTube or a keyword such as The World Cup. An automated program running within or in association with the virtual advertising platform or affiliated with the virtual advertising platform may recognize keywords metadata or other material within this prior viewed video content that indicates a relevance to the virtual video content genre Sports. Based at least in part on this the user may be associated with a user profile datum data indicating that the user is interested in sports. The selection of the virtual video content to syndicate to a user may be based at least in part on the user data and user profile data indicating an interest in sports may be automated initiated individually by the virtual advertising platform and or initiated by the user or creator of virtual video content that is available within or associated with the virtual advertising platform for example video content that is submitted to a website for manipulation such as YouTube.

Contextual information that may be associated with video content may also include keywords terms or phases located within or associated with the video content and or virtual video content the links to video content the links from video content click patterns and clickthroughs associated with prior use of the video content including click patterns and clickthroughs associated with sponsored content appearing in association with the virtual video content metadata video content usage patterns including time duration depth and frequency of video content usage the video content s origination host genre s relating to the video content and other indicia of video content context.

The relevancy of the contextual information associated with video content may be indicated through the use of a relevancy score. The relevancy score may be a numerical summary of the statistical association between for example contextual video and virtual video content parameters e.g. genre of video content and user parameters e.g. genres of video content previously downloaded by user . The relevancy score may be a proprietary score assigned to a video content or virtual video content by the virtual advertising platform or third party service provider that is associated with the virtual advertising platform . The relevancy scores of a syndicated virtualized video content may be stored in a virtual video content relevance dictionary.

In embodiments usage patterns may be obtained from a database of user data and or metadata relating to users of the virtual advertising platform . A wide range of usage patterns may be used to assist with formation of queries implicit and explicit and with retrieval and organization of video content search results such as that presented to a recipient of a virtualized video data feed from the virtual advertising platform . An algorithm facility may include one or more modules or engines suitable for analyzing usage patterns to assist with such functions in forming a query. For example an algorithm facility may analyze usage patterns based on time of day day of week day of month day of year work day patterns holiday patterns time of hour patterns surrounding transactions patterns surrounding incoming and outgoing video content patterns of clicks and clickthroughs patterns of communications and any other patterns that can be discerned from data that is used within or in association with the user data and or a client device on which video content is viewed. Usage patterns may be analyzed using various predictive algorithms such as regression techniques least squares and the like neural net algorithms learning engines random walks Monte Carlo simulations and others as described herein.

In embodiments an API or plurality of API s may be provided to enable and facilitate the management and use of user data such as user profiles and the operation of syndication within or in association with the virtual advertising platform .

In embodiments the determination of relevance relevancy associations correspondence and other measures of correlation and relationships between virtual video content users and metadata associated with both as described herein may be made based at least in part on statistical analysis. Statistical analysis may include but is not limited to techniques such as liner regression logistic regression decision tree analysis Bayes techniques including na ve Bayes K nearest neighbors analysis collaborative filtering data mining and other statistical techniques may be used.

In an example linear regression analysis may be used to determine the relationship between one or more independent variables such as user profile data and another dependent variable such as a datum associated with a virtual video content e.g. author name genre and the like and modeled by a least squares function called a linear regression equation. This function is a linear combination of one or more model parameters called regression coefficients.

In another example Bayes theorem may be used to analyze user profile and or video content data and virtual video content such as contextual data that is associated with video content data relating to virtualized digital video feeds that are created by the virtual advertising platform or some other type of data used within the virtual advertising platform . Using Bayes thereom conditional probabilities may be assigned to for example user profile variables where the probabilities estimate the likelihood of a video content or virtual video content viewing and may based at least in part on prior observations of the users prior interactions with video content. Na ve Bayes classifiers may also be used to analyze video content and virtual video content data. A naive Bayes classifier is a probabilistic classifier based on applying Bayes theorem with strong naive independence assumptions. A naive Bayes classifier assumes that the presence or lack of presence of a particular feature of a class is unrelated to the presence or lack of presence of any other feature. For example a user of video content may be classified in a user profile as interested in video content related to Singapore if he has previously searched for retrieved downloaded used and or interacted with video content or other type of content related to Singapore responded to virtual video content related to Singapore and the like. A Bayes classifier may consider properties such as prior use of Singapore video content prior downloads of Singapore related video content searches for Singapore video content and the like to independently contribute to the probability that this user is interested in Singapore related video content and may respond well to virtual video content such as advertisements that are related to Singapore and organizations within Singapore. Once a classification is assigned within the user profile e.g. User X Singapore Fan the user s information may be stored and shared by the virtual advertising platform e.g. sending the data to an ad server where the classification Singapore Fan may be used to select Singapore related sponsored content such as virtual video content to be used by the virtual advertising platform to deliver to the user is association with the delivery and presentation of Singapore or other subject related content . A single user profile may include a plurality of classifiers. For example the Singapore fan s user profile may also include classifiers indicating that the user is a native English speaker or an online poker player and so forth using the data that is associated with the user s actions and behaviors within the user dataset and any other data sources as described herein. An advantage of the naive Bayes classifier is that it may require a small amount of training data to estimate the parameters means and variances of the variables necessary for classification. Because independent variables are assumed only the variances of the variables for each class need to be determined and not the entire covariance matrix. This characteristic of na ve Bayes may enable the classification.

In embodiments a behavioral data analysis algorithm may be used for developing behavioral profiles for use by the virtual advertising platform for the selection of video content and virtual video content to be included in a virtualized digital video feed that will be presented to a client device . Behavioral profiles may then be used for targeting advertisements and other virtual video content. A behavioral profile may include a summary of a user s video viewing activity including the types of content and applications accessed and other behavioral properties. The user s activity summary may include searches browses purchases clicks impressions with no response or some other activity as described herein. The behavioral properties may be summarized as continuous interest scores of a video content category past responsiveness to virtual video content e.g. transactions made following viewing of advertising virtual video content or some other property. Continuous frequency scores and continuous recency scores e.g. how recently the activity occurred may be considered as behavioral properties for use in constructing a behavioral profile. A user s activity summary and the behavioral properties may be categorized using the analytic techniques as described herein e.g. na ve Bayes classifiers . Video content data and its characteristics and sponsored content such as virtual video content that may be associated with the presentation of video content to a user e.g. an advertisement may also be used for the generation of a behavioral profile. For example data such as advertisement identity ad tag user identity advertisement spot identity date and user response may be used. In addition content categories may be used for targeting virtualized digital video feeds to users client devices and or advertisements based on a behavioral profile or portion of a behavioral profile. Further content categories may be associated with each search browse download purchase or other online behavioral activities and or transactions.

A program of automatically syndicating virtual video content to a user may be based at least in part upon the relevance of contextual data associated with the video content and information known about a user or group of users e.g. user profile data as described herein . The automation of syndicating video content and virtualized digital video feeds may be based at least in part on associating metadata with the virtual video content. Contained within the metadata may be information regarding the relevance of the virtual video content to various users and or user groups. An example of only one of the many examples of how a metadata may contain relevance information may include metadata indicating the relevance of a virtual video content to a user based at least in part on the user data data related to the user s client device e.g. a video playback capability or some other type of data and or metadata indicating the average relevancy score that is associated with a video content viewing by a user from a given user category and the like.

In embodiments a server application or plurality of server applications designed for retrieving video content using the virtual advertising platform may read search websites syndication feeds or other content and or data looking for video content to use as part of creating a virtualized digital video feed using the virtual advertising platform . In another embodiment the virtual advertising platform may be associated with a database or plurality of databases in which the URLs or other data corresponding to and identifying video content and entities having stored video content. Once the server s confirms the website or other video content storage location is to receive and or provide syndicated video content including receiving virtualized digital video feeds from the virtual advertising platform the server may automatically receive tag and or provide video content to the website or other entity and or send virtualized digital video feed content to the website. In embodiments a tag may be provided by any number of different entities or sources. For example the tag may be provided by the virtual advertising platform a third party tagging service or some other tagging provider.

In embodiments an automated video syndication program and or virtualized digital video feed syndication program may derive revenue for example through a flat fee revenue sharing or no fee service program offered to an advertiser website ad exchange ad network publisher television broadcaster or some other entity. In embodiments parties such as a user of a client device that is capable of playing video may be required to pay a usage fee to access create aggregate and or interact with virtual content and the creation use distribution and viewing of virtualized digital video feeds . In another embodiment sponsored content such as an advertisement may be presented to a user in conjunction with the presentation of virtual video content. The owner of the sponsored content or other interested party may be required to pay a fee for the right to present the sponsored content to a user s client device in the form of a virtualized digital video feed that is created by the virtual advertising platform . This revenue may be shared among the virtual advertising platform and a third party e.g. website owner . Revenue may be derived from sponsors of virtual video content participating in the automated syndication program. Fees may be derived from the sponsors of virtual video content a competitive bidding process auction flat fee service or the like. The fee structure and bidding may be based at least in part on a relevancy score associated with a virtual video content.

In embodiments data integration techniques and methods may be used as part of the virtual advertising platform as described herein to collect join merge validate analyze and perform other data processing operations for digital video data virtual video content data user data client device data e.g. applications used to interact with virtual video content and other data types as described herein. Data integration techniques and methods may be used to take the information collected from a plurality of digital video data sources in order to draw an inference from the collected information identifying a potential change to a database based on newly received information and validating the change to the database based on the inference.

In embodiments data integration techniques and methods may be used to extract information from a plurality of digital video data sources and the like the data sources having a plurality of distinct data types transforming the data from the data sources into a data type that can be represented in for example a database to be used by a virtual advertising platform the database thereby integrating information from the distinct data types.

In embodiments the distinct data types may be selected from a group consisting of content data user data contextual information relating to video content and virtual video content user behavioral information including user profiles demographic information usage history and other data sources and types as described herein. In embodiments data integration techniques and methods may be used to apply rules such as by a rules engine in connection with creation updating and maintenance of a data set such as one stored or used in association with a virtual advertising platform . A rules engine may be applied to secondary change data that is data that comes from one or more data sources and that indicates that a change may be required in a data set or to inference data that is data derived by inferences from one or more data sets. For example a rule may indicate that a change in a data set will be made if a secondary data source confirms an inference or if an inference is consistent with data indicated by a data source. Similarly a rule might require multiple confirmations such as requiring more than one data source or more than one inference before confirming a change to a data set or creation of a new feature or attribute in the data set . Rules may require any fixed number of confirmations whether by other data sets or by inferences derived from those data sets. Rules may also embody various processes or work flows such as requiring a particular person or entity to approve a change of a given type or a change to a particular type of data.

In embodiments data integration techniques and methods may be used to extract information from a plurality of digital video data sources the data sources having a plurality of distinct data types storing the data in a common data set considering a change request associated with a database such as a database that is associated with a virtual advertising platform and using the common data set to validate the change request.

In embodiments data integration techniques and methods may be used to extract information from a plurality of digital video data sources the data sources having a plurality of distinct data types storing the data in a common data set considering the common data set to identify potential changes to a database such as a database that is associated with an virtual advertising platform and initiating a change request based on the common data set.

In embodiments a data integration facility may be used to integrate data from a plurality of digital video data sources the data sources including attributes relevant to an virtual advertising platform wherein the data integration facility is selected from the group consisting of an extraction facility a data transformation facility a loading facility a message broker a connector a service oriented architecture a queue a bridge a spider a filtering facility a clustering facility a syndication facility and a search facility.

In embodiments a data integration facility may be used to integrate data from a plurality of digital video data sources taking an inference drawn from analysis of data collected by a plurality of data sources applying a data integration rule to determine the extent to which to apply the inference and updating a data set based on the application of the rule.

In embodiments a data integration facility may be used to integrate data from a plurality of digital video data sources taking an inference drawn from analysis of data collected by a plurality of data sources applying a data integration rule hierarchy to determine the extent to which to apply the inference and updating a data set based on the application of the rule.

In embodiments a data integration facility may provide a rule hierarchy to determine a data type to use in a data set related to a system such as an virtual advertising platform the rule hierarchy applying a rule based on at least one of a data item the richness of a data item the reliability of a data item the freshness of a data item and the source of a data item and representing the rule hierarchy in a data integration rule matrix wherein the matrix facilitates the application of a different rule hierarchy to a different type of data.

In embodiments a data integration facility may be used to integrate data from a plurality of digital video data sources taking an inference drawn from analysis of data collected by a data sources applying a data integration rule matrix to determine the extent to which to apply the inference and updating a data set based on the application of the rule.

A data integration facility may be used in association with a system such as a virtual advertising platform to iteratively collect and make inferences about data that is collected for use in the virtual advertising platform . Iteration may be performed a plurality of times or continuously as an on going process to collect and make inferences about data attributes. Iteration may be a function of the entire data set e.g. an entire virtual video content usage history of a user or a function of specific data segments e.g. virtual video content usage history

The data integration facility may include at least one of a bridge a message broker a queue and a connector. Therefore a useful data source may be associated with a data integration facility via computer code hardware or both that establishes a connection between the source and the data integration facility. For example the bridge may include code that takes data in a native data type such as data in a mark up language format extracts the relevant portion of the data and transforms the data into a different format such as a format suitable for storing the data for use in an virtual advertising platform or by users of the virtual advertising platform . The message broker may extract data from a data source e.g. website place the data in a queue or storage location for delivery to a target location e.g. virtual advertising platform server and deliver the data at an appropriate time and in an appropriate format for the target location e.g. to a user of the virtual advertising platform . In embodiments the target location may be a virtual advertising platform database a data mart a metadata facility or a facility for storing or associating an attribute within the virtual advertising platform . The connector may comprise an application programming interface or other code suitable to connect source and target data facilities with or without an intermediate facility such as a data mart or a data bag. The connector may for example include AJAX code a SOAP connector a Java connector a WSDL connector or the like.

In embodiments the data integration facility may be used to integrate data from a plurality of digital video data sources the data sources including attributes relevant to for example the virtual advertising platform . The data integration facility may include a syndication facility. The syndication facility may publish information in a suitable format for further use by computers services or the like such as in aid of creating updating or maintaining a virtual advertising platform database such as one related to user behavioral profiles publishers or some other type of data used by the virtual advertising platform as described herein. For example the syndication facility may publish relevant data in RSS XML OPML or similar format such as user data wireless operator data ad conversion data publisher data and many other types of information that may be used by the virtual advertising platform . The syndication facility may be configured by the data integration facility to feed data directly to a virtual advertising platform database such as a user profile database in order to populate relevant fields of the database with data to populate attributes of the database to populate metadata in the database or the like. In embodiments the syndicated data may be used in conjunction with a rules engine such as to assist in various inferencing processes to assist in confirming other data or the like.

In embodiments the data integration facility may include a services oriented architecture facility. In the services oriented architecture facility one or more data integration steps may be deployed as a service that is accessible to various computers and services including services that assist in the development updating and maintenance of a virtual advertising platform database such as a user profile database or the like. Services may include services to assist with inferences such as by implementing rules hierarchies of rules or the like such as to assist in confirmation of data from various sources. Services may be published in a registry with information about how to access the services so that various data integration facilities may use the services. Access may be APIs connectors or the like such as using Web Services Definition Language enterprise Java beans or various other codes suitable for managing data integration in a services oriented architecture.

In embodiments the data integration facility may include at least one of a spidering facility a web crawler a clustering facility a scraping facility and a filtering facility. The spidering facility or other similar facility may thus search for data such as available from various domains services operators publishers and sources available on the Internet or other networks extract the data such as by scraping or clustering data that appears to be of a suitable type filter the data based on various filters and deliver the data such as to a virtual advertising platform database. Thus by spidering relevant data sources the data integration facility may find relevant data such as user behavioral data contextual data relating to content publisher data and many other types of the types variously described herein of information. The relevant data may be used to draw inferences to support inferences to contradict inferences or the like with the inference engine such as to assist in creation maintenance or updating of an virtual advertising platform database. The data may also be used to populate data fields directly to populate attributes associated with data items or provide metadata.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through network infrastructures. The network infrastructure may include elements such as computing devices servers routers hubs firewalls clients personal computers communication devices routing devices and other active and passive devices modules and or components as known in the art. The computing and or non computing device s associated with the network infrastructure may include apart from other components a storage medium such as flash memory buffer stack RAM ROM and the like. The processes methods program codes instructions described herein and elsewhere may be executed by one or more of the network infrastructural elements.

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on a cellular network having multiple cells. The cellular network may either be frequency division multiple access FDMA network or code division multiple access CDMA network. The cellular network may include mobile devices cell sites base stations repeaters antennas towers and the like. The cell network may be a GSM GPRS 3G EVDO mesh or other networks types.

The methods programs codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on or through mobile devices. The mobile devices may include navigation devices cell phones mobile phones mobile personal digital assistants laptops palmtops netbooks pagers electronic books readers music players and the like. These devices may include apart from other components a storage medium such as a flash memory buffer RAM ROM and one or more computing devices. The computing devices associated with mobile devices may be enabled to execute program codes methods and instructions stored thereon. Alternatively the mobile devices may be configured to execute instructions in collaboration with other devices. The mobile devices may communicate with base stations interfaced with servers and configured to execute program codes. The mobile devices may communicate on a peer to peer network mesh network or other communications network. The program code may be stored on the storage medium associated with the server and executed by a computing device embedded within the server. The base station may include a computing device and a storage medium. The storage device may store program codes and instructions executed by the computing devices associated with the base station.

The computer software program codes and or instructions may be stored and or accessed on machine readable media that may include computer components devices and recording media that retain digital data used for computing for some interval of time semiconductor storage known as random access memory RAM mass storage typically for more permanent storage such as optical discs forms of magnetic storage like hard disks tapes drums cards and other types processor registers cache memory volatile memory non volatile memory optical storage such as CD DVD removable media such as flash memory e.g. USB sticks or keys floppy disks magnetic tape paper tape punch cards standalone RAM disks Zip drives removable mass storage off line and the like other computer memory such as dynamic memory static memory read write storage mutable storage read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable content addressable network attached storage storage area network bar codes magnetic ink and the like.

The methods and systems described herein may transform physical and or or intangible items from one state to another. The methods and systems described herein may also transform data representing physical and or intangible items from one state to another.

The methods and or processes described above and steps thereof may be realized in hardware software or any combination of hardware and software suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device or specific computing device or particular aspect or component of a specific computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as a computer executable code capable of being executed on a machine readable medium.

The computer executable code may be created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software or any other machine capable of executing program instructions.

Thus in one aspect each method described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect the means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

