---

title: Theming for virtual collaboration
abstract: Aspects of the disclosure provide techniques that enable a communication server hosting a virtual communication session to receive theme parameters from a remote server to control the look and feel of the virtual communication session. In one example, a method includes sending a plurality of video feeds for display at a plurality of graphical user interfaces (GUIs) of client devices coupled to a communication session. The communication session enables communication among a plurality of users of the client devices. The method also includes receiving a set of parameters of a theme to modify one or more visual properties of the GUIs. The method also includes sending the set of parameters to the client devices connected to the communication session to modify visual properties of the GUIs displaying the plurality of video feeds at the plurality of client devices based on the parameters of the theme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448708&OS=09448708&RS=09448708
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09448708
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120720
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 549 074 filed Oct. 19 2011 the entire content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The disclosure relates to virtual socializing over a network and more specifically to configuring client interfaces used for virtual socializing.

Multiple users of computing devices may often engage in real time video communications such as video conferencing where the users also referred to as participants exchange live video and audio transmissions. In some examples visual representations of the users may be shared with each user engaged in real time video communications. Each computing device associated with a user may include a client that enables the real time video communication. In some instances the client may include a graphical interface that displays the visual representations of each of the users.

In one example a method includes sending by one or more computing devices a plurality of video feeds for display at a plurality of graphical user interfaces GUIs of client devices coupled to a communication session. The communication session enables communication among a plurality of users of the one or more computing devices and each of the plurality of video feeds includes at least a visual representation of user participation in the communication session. The method also includes receiving by the one or more computing device a set of parameters of a theme to modify one or more visual properties of the GUIs. The method also includes sending by the one or more computing device the set of parameters to the client devices coupled to the communication session to modify visual properties of the GUIs displaying the plurality of video feeds at the plurality of client devices based on the parameters of the theme.

In one example a computer readable storage medium includes instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform operations including sending a plurality of video feeds for display at a plurality of graphical user interfaces GUIs of client devices coupled to a communication session. The communication session enables communication among a plurality of users of the client devices and each of the plurality of video feeds includes at least a visual representation of user participation in the communication session. The computer readable storage medium further includes instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform operations including receiving a set of parameters of a theme to modify one or more visual properties of the GUIs. The computer readable storage medium further includes instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform operations including sending the set of parameters to the client devices connected to the communication session to modify visual properties of the GUIs displaying the plurality of video feeds at the plurality of client devices based on the parameters of the theme.

In one example a computing device includes one or more processors. The computing device further includes a server module configured to send a plurality of video feeds for display at a plurality of graphical user interfaces GUIs of client devices coupled to a communication session. The communication session enables communication among a plurality of users of the client devices and each of the plurality of video feeds includes at least a visual representation of user participation in the communication session. The computing device also includes a theme module configured to receive a set of parameters of a theme to modify one or more visual properties of the GUIs. The server module is also configured to send the set of parameters to the client devices connected to the communication session to modify visual properties of the GUIs displaying the plurality of video feeds at the plurality of client devices based on the parameters of the theme.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Friends family members or other individuals who wish to socialize or otherwise communicate may not always be in the same physical location at the time they would like to communicate. Some individuals may rely upon telephonic text or other forms of communication that support limited forms of socializing. For example conventional forms of communication may support multi way audio and or video communication. However some forms of communication are not sufficient to be able to give the individuals an experience similar to actually socializing in person. Talking with someone over the phone or texting someone does not create a shared experience similar to sitting a room together watching a movie or playing a game.

Rather than interacting together in the same physical location techniques of this disclosure may in various instances provide a mechanism for two or more individuals to socialize in the same virtual location e.g. a virtual communication session . A virtual communication session is a virtual space where multiple users can engage in a conversation and or share information. For example the individuals participating in the virtual hangout may share and watch videos play games participate in video audio or text chat surf the web or any combination thereof. In other words techniques of this disclosure may enable the creation of a virtual hangout that may mirror the experience of individuals hanging out in the same physical location.

Users may connect to the virtual communication session using a communication client that displays one or more video feeds of other users participating in the virtual communication session. Each communication client connected to the communication session may include the same or substantially similar GUI thereby providing a common look and feel for the virtual communication session. The communication client may cause an output device to display graphical elements e.g. video feeds in a graphical user interface GUI that include one or more visual properties. Visual properties of a GUI may include the size position and appearance of graphical elements included in the GUI.

Aspects of the disclosure provide techniques that enable a user to select themes that modify visual properties of a GUI. For instance a theme may include one or more parameters that may modify visual properties of a GUI. By allowing users to apply themes that modify visual properties of the GUI users may create and select different configurations for different virtual communications sessions. Allowing users to create and select different configurations for different virtual communications sessions may improve the customizability of the visual communication session and the user experience.

Aspects of the disclosure further provide techniques that enable a communication server hosting a virtual communication session to receive theme parameters from a remote server to control the look and feel of the virtual communication session. For instance a remote server may include an application that sends parameters of a theme to an interface provided by the communication server. The parameters may in turn be sent by the communication server to each of the communication clients connected to the session thereby causing visual properties of the GUIs displayed at each of the client devices to be modified concurrently. In this way a common look and feel of the virtual configuration session may be configured by a remote server that specifies one or more themes.

As used throughout this disclosure headings are included to improve the clarity of the disclosure and are not used to define separate examples. In some examples features of various examples may be combined and or used from among multiple headings in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

As shown in server device includes communication server theme module server module and communication session . Remote device includes remote application and theme data store . Each of client devices and server device and remote device may be connected by communication channels which in some examples may be wired or wireless communication channels capable of sending and receiving data. One example of communication channel may include a Transmission Control Protocol and or Internet Protocol TCP IP network connection.

Client devices and may be communicatively coupled to a communication session that enables communication among users of client devices and in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure. Examples of client devices and may include but are not limited to portable or mobile devices such as mobile phones including smart phones laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players televisions or similar such devices with one or more processors attached thereto or embedded therein and e book readers. Client device and each of client devices may be the same or different types of devices. For example client device and client device A may both be mobile phones. In another example client device may be a mobile phone and client device A may be a desktop computer.

Client devices and may include one or more input devices . Input device may include keyboards pointing devices microphones and cameras capable of recording one or more images or video. Client devices and may also include output devices . Examples of output device may include a video graphics card computer display sound card and speakers.

Client devices and of may include communication clients and . Communication clients and may provide similar or the same functionality. In some examples communication clients and may include mobile or desktop computer applications that provide functionality described herein. Communication clients and may include communication modules such as communication module as shown in communication client . Communication clients and may exchange audio video text or other information with other communication clients connected to communication session . Communication module may cause output device to display GUI . Communication module may further include functionality that enables communication client to connect to communication server and join one or more communication sessions e.g. communication session . Two or more client devices e.g. client device and client device may join the same communication session to enable communication among the client devices.

GUI may include graphical elements such as background video feeds and control buttons . Graphical elements may include any visually perceivable object that may be displayed in GUI . Examples of graphical elements may include a background image video feed text control buttons input fields or scroll bars. In one example input device may generate a visual representation of user . A visual representation may be a still image or group of images e.g. a video . Communication client may send the visual representation to communication server which may determine that communication clients and are connected to communication session . Consequently communication server may send the visual representation of user to communication clients A and B as video feeds. Communication clients A and B may upon receiving the visual representation cause an output device of client devices A and B to display the video feeds. Similarly client device may receive visual representations of users A and B which are in turn included as video feeds A and B in GUI of client device .

In addition to exchanging video information the communication clients may exchange audio text and other information via communication session . For instance microphones may capture sound at or near each of client devices and for example voices of users and . Audio data generated by client devices and from the sound may be exchanged between communication clients connected to communication session of communication server . For instance if user speaks input device may receive the sound and convert it to audio data. Communication client may then send the audio data to communication server . Communication server may determine communication client is connected to communication session and further determine other communication clients connected to communication session . Upon determining that communication clients A and B are connected to communication session communication server sends the audio data to each of communication clients . In still other examples text such a real time instant messages or files may be exchanged between communication clients and using similar techniques.

As shown in server device includes communication server theme module server module and communication session . Examples of server device may include a personal computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a workstation a data storage system a supercomputer or a mainframe computer. Communication server may generate manage and terminate communication sessions such as communication session . In some examples communication server is an application executing on server device that performs operations described herein. Server device may execute with multiple processors may have functionality distributed across multiple machines etc. Server device may also execute as a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware which itself may be a single or multiple machines . Server device may also execute as a process or a set of processes on a cloud server or service.

In one example server module of communication server may receive a request to generate communication session . For instance communication client may send a request to communication server that causes server module to generate communication session . Upon generating communication session other communication clients such as communication clients may also connect to communication session . For instance user may cause communication client to send invitations to client devices A and B of users A and B. Upon receiving the invitations users A and B may cause communication clients A and B to send requests to communication server to join communication session . Server module upon receiving the requests may connect communication clients to communication session . In other examples users A and B may discover communication session by browsing a feed that includes an indicator identifying communication session . Users may similarly join communication session by sending requests to communication server .

Communication session may enable communication clients connected to communication session to exchange information. As such communication session as used herein is a broad term encompassing as its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to one or more objects which may be stored in and or are executable by software or hardware that may enable communication clients coupled to the one or more objects to exchange information. Communication session may include data that among other things specifies communication clients connected to communication session . Communication session may further include session information such as a duration of the communication session security settings of the communication session and any other information that specifies a configuration of the communication session. Server module may send and receive information from communication clients connected to communication session thereby enabling users participating in the communication session to exchange information. Communication server may also include a theme module implementing techniques of the present disclosure.

In some examples communication client may cause output device to display GUI . As previously described GUI may include graphical elements such as background video feeds and control buttons . Visual properties of GUI may include the size position and appearance of graphical elements included in GUI . For instance a visual property of video feed A may include a size of video feed A e.g. 540 480 pixels. A different visual property of video feed A may include a position of video feed A within GUI specified by a coordinate pair comprising an x axis value and a y axis value. Other visual properties may include chrominance and luminance effects applied to a graphical element. Still other visual properties may include text or other objects that are superimposed on a graphical element e.g. text or objects that are superimposed on video feed A . Generally a visual property as used herein is a broad term encompassing as its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any characteristic of a graphical element that when modified results in a visually perceptible change in a graphical element.

Visual properties may be modified by one or more parameters. In some examples a parameter may identify a graphical element of a GUI and include data that specifies a modifier of one or more visual properties. In some examples the parameter may identify a type of graphical element such as a control button type. The type of graphical element may be associated with a modifier such as a specified color to be applied to the graphical element. In this way a parameter may modify one or more visual properties of multiple graphical elements of the same type. In other examples a parameter may identify a graphical element of a GUI by a unique identifier of the graphical element. For instance each control button in a GUI may include a unique identifier. A parameter may specify an identifier that unique identifies the graphical element and a modifier of one or more visual properties of the visual element. In this way parameters generally may be applied to groups of graphical elements or individually to specific graphical elements. When a communication client receives a parameter the communication client may apply the modifier of the parameter to one or more graphical elements in the GUI generated by the communication client. In this manner parameters may modify visual properties of graphical elements included in the GUI.

In some examples a theme may include a set of one or more parameters. Themes may therefore specify a configuration of one or more parameters that modify one or more visual properties of graphical elements included in a GUI. Themes may further include one or more triggers that specify when a parameter is to be applied to a graphical element. For instance a trigger may specify that a parameter is to be applied to a graphical element at a particular time day or season. In other examples a trigger may specify that a parameter is to be applied to a graphical element upon the occurrence of an event e.g. a user joining a communication session . A trigger generally may specify a condition that when satisfied indicates a parameter to be applied to a graphical element. In one example a condition may be satisfied when an event matches a condition specified by a trigger.

Themes may further include and or specify locations of graphical content that may be applied to one or more graphical elements. Graphical content may include text images or any other visually perceptible effect or object. In some examples the graphical content may be stored on a remote device and the theme may specify the location of the graphical content. For instance a location may be specified by a Uniform Resource Locator URL . Thus in one example the location of a background image stored on a remote device may be specified by a parameter. When the parameter is applied to the GUI generated by the communication client the background image may be retrieved from the remote device.

In some examples themes may specify one or more groups and parameters may be associated with each group. A group may for example be a group of users. If a user is associated with a group the parameters that are associated with the group may be applied to the GUIs of users included in the group that are participating in a communication session. Themes may in some examples be specified as structured information in a document such as an Extensible Markup Language XML document. In other examples themes may be stored in a datastore such as a database or other data structure.

As shown in communication server may include theme module . In some examples theme module may receive and send theme parameters to communication clients connected to a communication session thereby causing visual properties of the GUIs displayed at each of the client devices to be modified concurrently. In this way a common look and feel of the virtual communication session may be included in the GUI of each communication client connected to the communication session. For instance as shown in communication clients and may be connected to communication session . User may provide a user input via input device that causes communication module to select a theme stored on client device . Upon selecting the theme communication module may apply the parameters of the theme to communication client thereby modifying visual properties of the graphical elements included GUI .

Communication module may further send parameters of the theme to communication server . Theme module may receive the parameters and further send a message to server module to determine that communication clients A and B are connected to communication session . Consequently theme module may send the parameters of the theme to each of client devices A and B. Upon receiving the parameters communication clients A and B may apply the parameters to graphical elements in GUIs generated by communication clients A and B. In this way a common look and feel of the virtual communication session may be included in the GUI of each communication client connected to the communication session.

In some aspects of the present disclosure themes may be stored on and or applied by a remote device . Examples of remote device may include a personal computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a workstation a data storage system a supercomputer or a mainframe computer. Remote device may further include a remote application and theme data store . Theme data store may be a database file or any other data structure capable of storing a theme and or parameters of a theme as described herein.

In some examples user may use communication client to send a message to communication server to select a theme stored on remote device . For instance communication client may send a message to communication server requesting a set of themes that may be selected by communication client . Theme module upon receiving the request may send a message to remote device requesting a set of themes included in theme data store . Remote application executing on remote device may generate a set of theme identifiers that identify the themes stored in theme data store . Remote application may then send the set of theme identifiers to server device . Theme module may send a message to communication client that includes the set of theme identifiers. Communication client upon receiving the identifiers may cause output device to display a menu that includes the identifiers. User may provide a user input via input device to communication client to select one or more of the theme identifiers included in the message. Responsive to receiving the user input communication client may send a message that indicates the selected one or more theme identifiers to communication server .

Theme module may send a message to remote device that requests parameters of the one or more themes selected by . Remote application upon receiving the message may select the parameters from theme data store . Remote application may then send the parameters to communication server . Theme module upon receiving the parameters may send a message to server module which queries session data of communication session to determine that communication clients A and B are connected to communication session . Consequently theme module sends the parameters to communication clients A and B. Each of communication clients A and B upon receiving the parameters may apply the parameters to graphical elements included in GUIs generated by each of the communications clients. In this way a remote device that specifies one or more themes may configure a common look and feel of the configuration session .

In some examples remote application may manage the application of themes to communication clients that are connected to a communication session. For instance remote device may push parameters of a theme to an interface such as an Application Programming Interface API of communication server which in turn may send the parameters to teach of the communication clients. In one example user may select a theme stored on remote device as previously described. Consequently remote device may send a message from communication server that indicates the one or more themes selected by user . In addition theme module may include a communication session identifier that uniquely identifies communication session in the message. Upon receiving the message remote application may select the themes identified by the message and send parameters to communication server . In various instances the selected themes may include one or more triggers as further described in the disclosure. In these instances if the triggers included in the theme are later satisfied remote application may send a message that includes the parameters associated with the trigger to communication server . Remote application may include the session identifier in the message such that theme module may send the parameters to each communication client associated with communication session . In this way remote application may manage and apply one or more selected themes to a communication session via an API provided by communication sever .

In some examples when remote application manages the application of themes to communication clients communication server may send events to remote application . For instance a theme managed by remote application may include a trigger based on a user joining a communication session. In such an example theme module may initially receive a message from server module when the new user joins communication session . Theme module may send the event that indicates the new user has joined the session to remote application . Remote application upon receiving the event may determine whether the event indicates that a trigger of the theme has occurred. If the event indicates a trigger has occurred remote application may send one or more parameters associated with the theme to theme module . Theme module may in turn send the parameters to each of the communication clients connected to communication session . In this way events that occur during communication session which are associated with triggers in a theme may be sent to remote device .

Although previous examples herein have described themes stored on client device and remote device themes may also be stored on server and applied similarly using theme module . For instance remote application may send a theme to communication server . Theme module upon receiving the theme may send parameters of the theme to one or more communication clients connected to communication session . Moreover theme module may determine events associated triggers have occurred e.g. a user joining communication session . Theme module may send parameters of themes associated with such events to communication clients as described similarly with respect to remote application . In this way a common look and feel of the configuration session may be configured by communication server that stores one or more themes.

As shown in the specific example of server device includes one or more processors a communication unit one or more storage devices input device and output device . Server device also includes an operating system that is executable by server device . Server device in one example further includes communication server that is also executable by server device . Each of components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications. In some examples communication channels may include a system bus network connection interprocess communication data structure or any other channel for communicating data. As one example in components and may be coupled by one or more communication channels . Applications including communication server theme module server module communication session and operating system may also communicate information with one another as well as with other components in server device .

Processors in one example are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within server device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Examples of processors may include any one or more of a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or equivalent discrete or integrated logic circuitry.

Storage device in one example is configured to store information within server device during operation. Storage device in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples storage device is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage device is not long term storage. Storage device in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that storage device does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples storage device is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Storage device in one example is used by software or applications running on server device e.g. applications to temporarily store information during program execution.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

Server device in some examples also includes a communication unit . Server device in one example utilizes communication unit to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Communication unit may be a communication unit card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such communication units may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices as well as USB. In some examples server device utilizes communication unit to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as remote device and client devices and of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

Server device in one example also includes one or more input devices . Input device in some examples is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio or video feedback. Examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices may also be included in server device . Output device in some examples is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli. Output device in one example includes a presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

Server device may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of server device . For example operating system in one example facilitates the interaction of communication server with processors communication unit storage devices input device and output device . As shown in communication server may include theme module server module and communication session as described in . Communication server theme module and server module may each include program instructions and or data that are executable by server device . For example theme module and server module may include instructions that cause communication server executing on server device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In one example communication unit may receive multiple video feeds from communication clients connected to communications session . As such a video feed as used herein is a broad term encompassing as its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to one or more visual representations associated with a communication client coupled to a communication session. For instance a video feed may include one or more visual representations of user participation associated with a communication client that is coupled to a communication session. Upon receiving the video feeds server module may determine which communication clients are connected to communication session . Server module may cause network device to send the video feeds to each of the communication clients connected to communication session for display at the GUIs of each of the communication devices that include the communication clients. In this way users participating in communication session may view visual representations of other users participating in the communication session.

In the current example communication unit may receive a message from a communication client that requests a set of themes that may be selected by the communication client. Theme module may further generate a message that includes a request for themes. Theme module causes communication unit to send the message to a remote device which may return a set of identifiers that identify selectable themes stored on the remote device. Theme module then causes communication unit to send a message that includes the set of identifiers to the communication client. The user of the communication client may provide a user input to select one or more identifiers which are in turn sent to server device . Communication unit may receive the selected identifiers which theme module may then in turn cause communication unit to send to the remote device. The remote device may then select parameters of the themes identified by the selected identifiers. The remote device may send the parameters to server device .

Theme module may receive the parameters via communication unit . Upon receiving the parameters theme module may send a message to server module to determine which communication clients are connected to communication session . Theme module may receive a set of identifiers of communication clients from server module . Theme module may then cause communication unit to send the parameters to each of the communication clients connected to communication session . The parameters when received and applied by each of the communication clients may modify visual properties of GUIs displayed at each of the computing devices executing the communication clients.

As shown in GUI may include invitation panel . Invitation panel may enable user of to invite other users to join communication session . Invitation panel may include a user selection button that enables user to initially select other users. For instance when users selects user selection button communication module may cause GUI to display identifiers of one or more users or groups of users that user may select for invitation to communication session . After user has selected one or more users user may further select invitation button . In some examples when invitation button is selected by user communication module may send invitations to the selected users.

GUI may further include control panel . Control panel may include one or more session control buttons that enable user to control functions of communication client and client device . For instance control panel may include session control buttons . Session control buttons may be associated with various functions that may be performed by communications module . Various functions may include muting a camera attached to client device muting a microphone of computing device accessing user specified settings of communication client and or exiting communication session .

Control panel may include theme selection button that when selected enables user to select a theme that may be applied to GUI . For instance upon selecting theme selection button communication module may cause GUI to display menu that includes a set of themes that user may select. In some examples one or more of the themes may be stored on client device while in other examples one or more of the themes may be stored on server device or remote device . User may provide a user input to select one or more of the themes which communication module may apply to graphical elements of GUI . Moreover communication module may send a message to communication server that user has selected a theme. In some examples the message may further include parameters of the theme. Communication server may responsive to receiving the message send parameters of the selected theme to other communication clients connected to communication session .

As shown in a theme may specify one or more parameters that cause communication module to modify visual properties of GUI displayed at client device . In some examples parameters may cause communication module to display video feeds in a substantially parallel orientation at GUI such as in a row e.g. horizontal or a column e.g. vertical . For instance user may select a theme that specifies a data that indicates to communication module to display a first video feed group A in a first row A and a second video feed group B in a second row B. In one non limiting example parameters may include the following structured data that may be processed and applied by communication module to graphical elements of GUI . The parameters may be included in a theme that is stored on client device server device and or remote device .

Lines 1 and 9 of the parameter specify to communication module two different groups identified by group names group1 group2. Lines 2 and 10 further indicate that communication module will include graphical elements of group1 and group2 in rows. For instance as shown in first group of video feeds A are included in row A and second group of video feeds B are included in row B. Lines 3 and 11 specify the type of graphical element e.g. video feed to which communication module will apply the parameters. For instance video feed A may be a graphical element of type video feed. Lines 4 and 12 indicate the orientation of each of rows A and B is vertical as shown in . Lines 5 and 13 indicate positions of rows A and B within GUI . For instance positions may include enumerated types such as top bottom left right and center with predefined pixel values. In other examples positions may include absolute x y coordinates relative to an origin of GUI .

Lines 6 and 14 indicate that the size of each video feed e.g. thumbnail. A size of each graphical element may be specified in pixel dimensions or alternatively according an enumerated type such as thumbnail small medium large which may each be associated with predefined pixel dimensions. As shown in a size of video feed may be larger than a size of video feeds included in video feed group A.

In one example communication module may receive video feeds from server device . Each video feed may include a visual representation of user participation in communication session . For instance user participation may include actions and or physical appearances of the user that may be recorded or captured by an input device. User participation may also include one or more other physical objects and or actions of the physical objects that may be recorded or captured by an input device. For instance user participation may be the user in the video the user pointing the video at another object or event e.g. the user s dog the view out the windows etc. a rendered scene by the user e.g. a shared browser window or computer desktop etc. Users participating in communication session may each further be associated with a first group or a second group e.g. video feed group A or B . For instance the first group may be identified by a first group identifier attribute and the second group may be identified by a second group identifier attribute. The first group identifier attribute may be different than the second group identifier attribute in some examples. Each communication client connected to communication session may send to communication server the attribute associated with the user. Communication server may further associate the attribute of each user with the user s video feed. When communication server sends one or more video feeds to communication client connected to communication session communication client may determine based on the attribute associated with the video feed which group the video feed is associated with. Communication client may then apply parameters having a group name that matches a group attribute associated with a video feed.

In other examples communication client may identify the group attribute associated with each video feed. Based on the identity of each group attribute communication client may further determine the number of unique group attributes of video feeds received from communication server . For instance communication client may determine that each of the video feeds received from communication server is associated with a group attribute of customer or vendor. Consequently communication client may determine that there are two distinct groups. Because communication client may determine there are two distinct groups communication client may apply parameters of group1 to video feeds having a group attribute of customer. Communication client may further apply parameters of group2 to video feeds having a group attribute of vendor. Thus communication client may flexibly and generically apply parameters of a theme to video feeds associated with different group attributes without requiring exact matching of group names of parameters to group attributes associated with video streams.

Line further specifies a trigger with type active speaker. In some examples communication module may determine that the position and size specified in is applied to a graphical element of type video feed when an event of type active speaker is associated with a video feed. Server module may associate an event of type active speaker with a video feed received from a computing device that is sending audio data based on an audio signal provided by a user to communication session . For instance server module may associate an active speaker event with a video stream of a user that is presently speaking e.g. providing an audio signal to generate audio data in communication session . Server module may send the event to communication module which may determine based the trigger of Line of the parameter to position the video feed e.g. video feed of the active speaker in the center of GUI Line and display the video feed as a size of type large Line . Thus as shown in row A may be positioned at an opposite side of GUI from the side row B is positioned. Video feed as shown in may be positioned between row A and B. In other examples parameters may indicate that each of the video feeds is of the same size and the video feeds are displayed by output device in substantially parallel rows. For instance communication client may cause four video feeds to be displayed in GUI as a 2 2 matrix of video feeds wherein each video feed is of the same size and each of the row of two video feeds is substantially parallel e.g. horizontally to the other.

Other examples of triggers may include a trigger that specifies a computing device that initiated the communication session. For instance the trigger may cause communication client to display the video feed of the computing device that initiated the communication session as a video feed having a size that is larger than other video feeds included in the GUI.

In some examples one or more parameters specify that a computing device superimpose graphical content for display on a selected video feed of the plurality of video feeds at the GUI. In some examples the parameters may indicate the graphical content is superimposed on a graphical element when server device receives an event. For instance graphical content may include an image that is superimposed on a video feed in GUI . In one example image is superimposed on the video feed when the audio data associated with the video feed has been muted. For instance the user of the computing device that generates the video feed may provide a user input that mutes the audio data associated with the video feed. Upon muting the audio data the computing device may send an event to communication server . Communication server may send the event to client device . Client module may receive the event and based on a parameter of a theme associated with the event client module may cause output device to display image as superimposed on the video feed. In one example a theme may black out video feeds of users when an event occurs e.g. a first user mutes his or her web camera or a second user provides a user input to block the video feed of the first user from being displayed at the second user s computing device.

In some examples a parameter of a theme indicates that a computing device may modify at least one audio stream of a plurality of audio streams generated by the computing devices. For instance communication server may send a plurality of audio streams to computing devices connected to communication session for output at a plurality of output devices of the computing devices. The audio streams may include for example audio data generated from audio signals provided by each user. In one example a parameter of a theme stored on server device may specify that a volume level of an audio stream associated with the current speaker is increased. In another example a parameter may specify that a volume level of each audio stream associated with a computing device of a user that is not speaking is muted.

In one example user A may currently be speaking Consequently client device A receives the audio signal of user A s voice and converts the signal to audio data. Communication client A sends the audio data as an audio stream to communication server . Upon receiving the stream theme module may associate an active speaker event with the audio stream. The active speaker event indicates the audio stream is associated with an audio stream of an active speaker. Server module may send the audio stream and active speaker event to each of client devices and B. Communication client for example may receive the audio stream and active speaker event. Communication client may further determine that a parameter of a theme presently applied by communication client causes communication client to increase the volume of the audio stream associated with the active speaker event.

The user of client device may wish to change the look and feel of GUIs of each communication client executing on client devices connected to the communication session. Consequently user may provide a user input that selects a theme and causes client device to send a message that indicates the selected theme to server device . Server device may subsequently receive the theme selection . Upon receiving the theme selection server device may send a message for example a configuration request that indicates the selected theme to remote device . Remote device as shown in may store one or more themes. Upon receiving the configuration request from server device remote device may select the parameters of the theme and send the parameters to server device .

Server device may subsequent receive the theme parameters . Upon receiving the theme parameters server device may determine which client devices are connected to the communication session. Server device upon determining which client devices are connected to the communication session may send the theme parameters to each of the connected client devices . In the current example client device receives the theme parameters from server device . Client device may then apply the theme parameters thereby modifying visual properties of one or more graphical elements included in the GUI generated by client device . Client device A also receives theme parameters from server device . Client device A may then similarly apply the theme parameters thereby modifying visual properties of one or more graphical elements included in the GUI generated by client device A .

In one example the method includes sending by the computing device a request that identifies the theme to a remote server that stores a plurality of themes and receiving by the computing device the set of parameters of the theme. In one example the one or more visual properties of the communication session include graphical positions of each of the plurality of visual feeds in the graphical user interface. In another example the one or more visual properties of the communication session include graphical orientations of each of the plurality of visual feeds in the graphical user interface. In one example the one or more visual properties of the communication session include sizes of each of the plurality of visual feeds in the graphical user interface.

In one example the graphical user interface includes one or more graphical elements and wherein the one or more visual properties of the communication session include one or more colors of the one or more graphical elements. In another example one or more graphical elements include at least one of a background image text control buttons input field or scrollbar. In one example the set of parameters specify data that indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display each of the plurality of video feeds as a first size at the GUI and the data indicates of parameters to the plurality of computing devices to display the plurality of video feeds in a substantially parallel orientation at the GUI.

In one example the set of parameters specify data that indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display the plurality of video feeds in a substantially parallel orientation at the GUI the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to select a video feed of the plurality of video feeds wherein the selected video feed is associated with a second computing device that generates audio data based on an audio signal provided by a user and the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display at the GUI the selected video feed as a first size and the plurality of video feeds as a second size wherein the first size is larger than the second size. In one example the data further indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display the plurality of video feeds adjacent to a side of the GUI.

In one example the set of parameters specify data that indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display a first group of the plurality of video feeds in a first substantially parallel orientation at a first location the GUI and a second group of the plurality of video feeds in a second substantially parallel orientation at a second location of the GUI the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to select a video feed of the plurality of video feeds wherein the selected video feed is associated with a second computing device that is sending audio data based on an audio signal provided by a user to the communication session the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display at the GUI the selected video feed as a first size and the plurality of video feeds as a second size wherein the first size is larger than the second size the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display at the GUI the first group of the plurality of video feeds adjacent to a first side of the GUI and the second group of the plurality of video feeds adjacent to a second side of the GUI wherein the first side and the second side include opposite sides of the GUI and the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display at the GUI the selected video feed between the first group of the plurality of video feeds and the second group of the plurality of video feeds.

In one example the first group of the plurality of video feeds are associated with a first attribute the second group of the plurality of video feeds are associated with a second attribute and the first attribute is not equal to the second attribute. In one example the first attribute indicates a first group of users wherein each user of the first group of users is related to users of the first group of users and the second attribute indicates a second group of users wherein each user of the second group of users is related to users of the second group of users.

In one example the set of parameters specify data that indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display the plurality of video feeds in a substantially parallel orientation at the GUI the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to select a video feed of the plurality of video feeds wherein the selected video feed is associated with a second computing device that initiated the communication session and the data indicates to the plurality of computing devices to display at the GUI the selected video feed as a first size and the plurality of video feeds as a second size wherein the first size is larger than the second size. In one example the set of parameters specify data that indicates to the plurality of computing devices to superimpose a graphical content for display on a selected video feed of the plurality of video feeds at the GUI when an event is received by the computing device.

In one example the event includes muting a microphone of one of the plurality of computing devices and wherein the graphical element includes an image. In one example the method includes detecting by the computing device an event associated with a trigger of the theme wherein the trigger specifies data that modifies visual properties of the GUIs displayed the plurality of computing devices and responsive to detecting the event storing by the computing device the data in the set of parameters. In one example the event indicates that a new computing device has connected to the communication session to enable communication between a new user of the new computing device and the plurality of users of the computing devices. In one example a parameter of the set of parameters of the theme indicates to the plurality of computing devices to modify at least one audio stream of a plurality of audio streams generated by the computing devices wherein the computing device sends the plurality of audio streams to computing devices connected to the communication session for output at a plurality of output devices of the computing devices.

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. The term processor or processing circuitry may generally refer to any of the foregoing logic circuitry alone or in combination with other logic circuitry or any other equivalent circuitry. A control unit including hardware may also perform one or more of the techniques of this disclosure.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various techniques described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware firmware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware firmware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware firmware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium encoded may cause one or more programmable processors or other processors to implement one or more of the techniques described herein such as when instructions included or encoded in the computer readable storage medium are executed by the one or more processors. Computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a compact disc ROM CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable media. In some examples an article of manufacture may include one or more computer readable storage media.

In some examples a computer readable storage medium may include a non transitory medium. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

