---

title: Systems and methods to selectively limit access only to a subset of content, identified in a whitelist, of a library of content
abstract: This disclosure relates to generating whitelists respectively identifying subsets of content from a library of content, maintaining respective associations between tokens and the whitelists, and selectively limiting access only to the subsets of content identified in whitelists based upon one or more tokens included in a request for access to the library of content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793806&OS=08793806&RS=08793806
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08793806
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120713
---
This disclosure generally relates to systems and methods that facilitate selectively limiting access only to a subset of content identified in a whitelist of a library of content.

The internet allows content providers such as publishers and individuals to easily provide content to a large population of content consumers. Vast amounts of content are being published by content providers to content sites such as social media and social networking sites. For example individuals with mobile phones can record events and publish videos to a social media site for anyone to view. Furthermore more formal publishers such as for example educational institutions advertisers or production companies produce professional quality content to be published on the same content sites as an individual. A consumer wanting to explore available content may perform a search on the content site to retrieve a resulting list of content. However certain entities from which a consumer may want to access the content site may find certain content objectionable. For example a school may want its students to have access to educational content on the content site but not other content. Conventionally entities have not been able to restrict access to specific content on a content site and thus these entities typically block access to the content site.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in simplified form as a prelude to more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow in the disclosure.

In accordance with a non limiting implementation a whitelist component that generates a whitelist including one or more content items from a library of content items associated with a token wherein the token indicates restriction of content items to the whitelist associated with the token a token receiving component that receives a request for access to the library of content items wherein the request includes the token and a content presentation component that in response to receipt of the token indicating restriction of content items to a whitelist associated with the token presents a user interface in whitelist restricted mode that restricts access to the library of content items to the one or more content items on the whitelist.

In accordance with another non limiting implementation a whitelist associated with a token is generated including one or more content items from a library of content items wherein the token indicates restriction of content items to the whitelist associated with the token a request is received for access to the library of content items wherein the request includes the token and in response to receipt of the token indicating restriction of content items to the whitelist associated with the token a user interface is presented in whitelist restricted mode that restricts access restricts access to the library of content items to the one or more content items on the whitelist.

Various aspects or features of this disclosure are described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In this specification numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. It should be understood however that certain aspects of this disclosure may be practiced without these specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate describing this disclosure.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more implementations described in this disclosure users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more implementations described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

In accordance with various disclosed aspects a mechanism is provided for an entity to employ a token with a content site to restrict access by users from the entity only to content identified on a whitelist associated with the token. An entity can be any organization of individuals for which access to content is to be restricted from within the computer infrastructure of the entity. For example an entity can be a school system that wants to restrict access by the students on school system computers or network to a limited subset of content on a content site for example to only be able to access education content. In another example a religious organization may want to restrict access by their members to certain content on a content site when the members employ the religious organization s computers or network. In another example a business or government may want to restrict access by their employees to specific content on a content site when the employees are using the business or government s computers or network.

Content or content item can include for example video audio image text or any combination thereof non limiting examples of which include music speeches cartoons short films movies televisions shows documents books magazines articles novels quotes poems comics advertisements photos posters prints paintings artwork graphics games applications or any other creative work that can be captured and or conveyed through video audio image text or any combination thereof. In a non limiting example a social networking application may contain video or photo content that users have uploaded to share. In another non limiting example a music application can contain music available for listening. A further non limiting example is an education site that contains a combination of text articles videos photos and audio recordings. In another example a tablet device may have game applications available for playing. Furthermore the content can be available on an intranet internet or can be local content.

With reference to the embodiments described below an example school entity and restriction to educational video content is employed for illustrative purposed only. It is to be appreciated that any type of entity or content can be employed.

Referring now to the drawings depicts a system that selectively provides content to a plurality of client devices based upon whitelists. System includes a content server that provides content to client devices remotely. In addition content server receives or access content from a plurality of content providers . Furthermore content server client devices and content providers can receive input from users to control interaction with and presentation of content for example using input devices non limiting examples of which can be found with reference to .

Content server client device and content providers each respectively include a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory a non limiting example of which can be found with reference to . Client device and content provider can communicate via a wired and or wireless network to content server . It is to be appreciated that while only one content server is depicted client device and content provider can communicate with a plurality of content servers concurrently. Furthermore while only two client devices are depicted it is to be appreciated that any suitable number of client devices can concurrently interact with content server . Additionally while only two content providers are depicted it is to be appreciated that any suitable number of content providers can concurrently interact with content server .

Content server client device and content provider can be any suitable type of device for interacting with or supplying content locally or remotely over a wired or wireless communication link non limiting examples of which include a mobile device a mobile phone a camera a camcorder a video camera personal data assistant laptop computer tablet computer desktop computer server system cable set top box satellite set top box cable modem television set media extender device blu ray device DVD digital versatile disc or digital video disc device compact disc device video game system portable video game console audio video receiver radio device portable music player navigation system car stereo etc. Moreover video content server client device and content provider can include a user interface e.g. a web browser or application that can receive and present displays and generated locally or remotely.

Content server includes a token issuing component that issues tokens to entities. Content server further includes whitelist component that generates whitelists identifying unrestricted content. In addition content server includes a token receiving component that receives tokens associated with requests from client devices . Content server also includes a content presentation component that selectively presents content to client devices based upon whitelists and tokens. Additionally content server includes a data store that can store content as well as data generated by token issuing component whitelist component token receiving component or content presentation component . Data store can be stored on any suitable type of storage device non limiting examples of which are illustrated with reference to .

With continued reference to token issuing component receives a request from an entity for example from a client device associated with the entity to issue a token to the entity. In a non limiting the entity can log into a user interface associated with token issuing component to request a token. In another non limiting example the entity can request issuance of a token via a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP command. In a further non limiting example the entity can request issuance of a token via an application programming interface associated with token issuing component . It is to be appreciated that any suitable mechanism for an entity to request a token from a content site can be employed. Token issuing component issues a token with a unique identifier to the entity. It is to be appreciated that the issued token can be a token associated with a whitelist associated with the content site such as a global or custom whitelist. It is to be further appreciated that additional tokens with respective unique identifiers can be issued to the entity associated with additional global or custom whitelists.

Referring to whitelist component that generates whitelists associated with tokens identifying unrestricted content. A whitelist identifies content that is accessible unrestricted to users employing a token associated with the whitelist. For example when a user attempts to access a content site and the token is submitted with the user s access attempt the content site will limit access such that the user will only be able to access content identified in the whitelist associated with the token. It is to be appreciated that in a non limiting example a whitelist can be associated with a plurality of tokens for example a global whitelist at a content site. It is to further be appreciated that in a non limiting example a token is associated with a single whitelist for example a custom whitelist for an entity as described below. Whitelist component includes whitelist generation component that generates one or more global whitelists associated with the content site. For example whitelist generation component can employ content filtering criteria such as established by administrators of the content site for filtering content from a library of available content for inclusion on a global whitelist. For example in a non limiting example content filtering criteria can include content provider text images audio or video characteristics metadata voice recognition facial recognition speech to text conversion content subject matter demographics inappropriateness flags rating parental rating parental advisory comments or any other criteria associated with content.

In another non limiting example whitelist component maintains a mapping between whitelists and tokens thereby allowing a many to one relationship between whitelists and tokens. For example a content site many have more than one global whitelist and an entity can select via a user interface not shown which global or custom whitelists to associate with their token.

Continuing with referring to whitelist component includes whitelist user interface component that provides a mechanism for an entity to manage custom whitelists. In a non limiting example an entity can request additional tokens with respective unique identifiers be issued to the entity that are used to create custom whitelists. In a non limiting example a school system may want to create custom whitelists that are associated with sub groups of their population of users. For example the school system may want to have separate custom whitelists for grade K 6 middle school grades high school grades teachers and school administrators. In another non limiting example a school system may want to create custom whitelists that are associated with specific computer equipment in their computing environment. For example in a math lab the school may want to create a math custom whitelist that only allows access to education math content from computers in the math lab while a physics lab would have a custom physics whitelist that only allows access to physics educational content from computers in the physics lab. It is to be appreciated that any number of custom whitelists can be created to limit content access for any subgroup of users or computing infrastructure. It is also to be appreciated that specific tokens associated with subgroups of users or computing infrastructure can be communicated to content server along with a requests from the subgroups. Continuing with the example above a token associated with a K 6 GRADE custom whitelist can be employed when student from grades K 6 attempt to access content server . Furthermore a token associated with a MATH LAB custom whitelist can be employed when students attempt to access content server from the math lab. It is to be appreciated that multiple tokens can be employed when attempting to access content server to limit content to an intersection of the content identified in the multiple whitelists associated with the tokens. For example if a student from K 6 is attempting to access content server from the math lab then two tokens can be employed one associated with the K 6 GRADE custom whitelist and one associated with the MATH LAB custom whitelist to limit content to an intersection of the content identified in the two whitelists. It is to be appreciated that in another non limiting example content can limited to a union of the content identified in the multiple whitelists associated with the tokens.

Referring to is depicted a non limiting example user interface associated with a video application content site presented by whitelist user interface component . User interface includes a notification area that provides notification to the user using graphics or text about the mode of the user interface. Additionally user interface includes an application title area that indicates the application currently active or in the foreground of the user interface which in this example is a VIDEO APPLICATION . User interface also includes a search area that allows for entering a search for content in the VIDEO APPLICATION . Furthermore user interface includes user area that indicates the current user signed into the video application which in this example is ENTITY 1 and that also provides a sign out selection element for the user to sign out of the application. User interface further includes a function title area that indicates a current functional area of the application which in this non limiting example is CUSTOM WHITELISTS representing a function for managing a list of custom whitelists. In this example GRADE K 6 TOKEN A GRADE 7 9 TOKEN B GRADE 10 12 TOKEN C TEACHER TOKEN D and GRADE K 12 TOKEN E custom whitelists are depicted along with respective selection elements A E to allow a user to select an action to perform with the associated custom whitelist for example by a menu that is activated upon selection of selection elements A E. It is to be appreciated that while only five custom whitelists are depicted any number of whitelists can be included. Furthermore navigation elements can be included for navigating the list of custom whitelists non limiting examples of which include a scrolling element or touchscreen swipe gesture navigation. Actions can include but are not limited to editing the custom whitelist or marking the custom whitelist as enabled or disabled. User interface also includes a new whitelist selection element that presents a whitelist editor for creating a new custom whitelist. It is to be appreciated that creation of a new custom whitelist can initiate a request to token issuing component for issuance of a new token to associate with the new custom whitelist. Whitelist user interface component can store any selections or entries made by the user using user interface .

Referring to in a non limiting example user interface is depicted where ENTITY 1 has selected K 6 GRADE TOKEN A custom whitelist for editing. Correspondingly function title area indicates the current functional area of the application as CUSTOM WHITELIST EDITOR . User interface further includes a whitelist selection menu that allows for selection of a custom whitelist for editing this example depicting K 6 GRADE TOKEN associated with K 6 GRADE TOKEN A whitelist. For example whitelist selection menu can be a drop down menu that includes a list of the custom whitelists previously created. In addition whitelist selection menu can include a selectable entry for creating a new custom whitelist. User interface also includes an added to whitelist area that shows content that is currently in the custom whitelist selected in whitelist selection menu . In this non limiting example added to whitelist area shows ELEPHANT VIDEO . . . SOCIAL STUDIES VIDEO currently in K 6 GRADE TOKEN A custom whitelist.

User interface includes an available content area that shows content that is available to be added to the custom whitelist selected in whitelist selection menu . It is to be appreciated that available content can be content that is stored locally on content server or remotely at content providers . In this example available content area shows BEAR MAULING VIDEO . . . PHYSICS VIDEO available to be added to K 6 GRADE TOKEN A custom whitelist. In addition the user can narrow the list of available content by entering a query in search area results of which would appear in available content area . User interface includes a scrolling control element for navigating the list of available content in available content area . It is to be understood that added to whitelist area can also include a scrolling control element for navigating the list of content in a custom whitelist.

User interface includes a remove content selection element for moving content from the list on the left to the list on the right in this example moving content from the added to whitelist area to the available content area . User interface also includes an add content selection element for moving content from the list on the right to the list on the left in this example moving content from the available content area to the added to whitelist area . For example ENTITY 1 can use add content selection element and remove content selection element to configure the content included in a custom whitelist whitelist input . The configured custom whitelist can be stored by whitelist user interface component for example automatically upon the user navigating away from the CUSTOM WHITELIST EDITOR function upon the user selecting a save whitelist selection element not depicted the user performing a specific gesture or by any other suitable mechanism for storing a custom whitelist.

Referring back to whitelist component includes whitelist application programming interface component for receiving a new or modified custom whitelist from an entity. It a non limiting example an entity can create a custom outside of content server and later submit the custom whitelist to content server using whitelist application programming interface . In another non limiting example an entity can receive a custom whitelist from a content provider or other entity and submit the custom whitelist to content server using whitelist application programming interface . The whitelist can be submitting by the entity to the whitelist application programming interface in any suitable format non limiting examples of which include extensible markup language XML comma separated values CSV extensible binary meta language EBML web distributed data exchange WDDX javascript object notation JSON simple declarative language SD hypertext markup language HTML text or any other data transport format. It is to be appreciated that a new custom whitelist can be submitted with an identifier indicating a new custom whitelist so that a new token associated with the custom whitelist can be issued to the entity. It is also to be appreciated that modification of an existing custom whitelist can by submitted with a unique identifier of the custom whitelist or associated token.

Referring back to token receiving component receives a token associated with a request for access to content server . Token receiving component identifies a whitelist associated with the token. It is to be appreciated that the token can be received through any suitable mechanism non limiting examples of which include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP header a Uniform Resource Locator URL parameter or a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP cookie. It is to be further appreciated that token receiving component can receive multiple tokens associated with a request for access to content server as described above and identify whitelists associated with the multiple tokens.

Referring to content presentation component includes a content user interface component that selectively presents a user interface in a mode to restrict content access based upon one or more whitelists identified by token receiving component . Furthermore content presentation component includes a search component the selectively restricts search results of content based upon one or more whitelists identified by token receiving component . It is to be appreciated that a token may not be submitted with a request for access to content server and thus content presentation component would not limit presentation or searching of content according to whitelists.

Referring to is depicted a non limiting example user interface associated with a video application content site presented by content user interface component when a request for access to content server was received without a token. Notification area indicates the video application content site is being employed in NORMAL MODE normal mode meaning there are no whitelist restrictions on accessing or searching content. Function title area indicates the current functional area of the application as VIDEOS for interacting with videos such as searching browsing or selection. Furthermore user interface includes user area that indicates the current user signed into the video application which in this example is USER 1 and that also provides a sign out selection element for the user to sign out of the application. It is to be appreciated that a user does not need to sign into the video application content site in order to employ the site. In a non limiting example signing in to the site can be optional such as to save preferences of the user. In this non limiting example a search for ANIMALS was entered in search area . Search results area depicts videos WORM VIDEO A KITTEN VIDEO B BEAR MAULING VIDEO C GIRAFFE VIDEO D SHARK ATTACK VIDEO E ELEPHANT VIDEO F which are visible in a results list generated by search component and videos FISH VIDEO G and BIRD VIDEO H which are partially shown in the results lists. It is to be appreciated that the results list depicted in search results area can include any number of videos and can be navigated using any suitable mechanism a non limiting example of a scrolling control element is depicted. It is to be appreciated that in a non limiting example if no search term is entered all available videos can be listed in search results area . In another non limiting example a subset of available videos can be presented for example based upon inferred interests of USER 1 .

Referring to is depicted a non limiting example user interface associated with a video application content site presented by content user interface component when a request for access to content server was received with one or more tokens. In a non limiting example content presentation component can restrict access or search only to content within the intersection of content identified in the one or more whitelists associated with the one or more tokens. In another non limiting example content presentation component can restrict access or search only to content within the union of content identified in the one or more whitelists associated with the one or more tokens. Notification area indicates the video application content site is being employed in EDU MODE whitelist restricted mode meaning that the video application content site is being accessed with whitelist restrictions on access and searching of content. It is to be appreciated that any term or graphical indication can be employed to indicate whether the site is being accessed with or without whitelist restrictions. Function title area indicates the current functional area of the application as VIDEOS for interacting with videos such as searching browsing or selection. Furthermore user interface includes user area that indicates the current user signed into the video application which in this example is USER 1 and that also provides a sign out selection element for the user to sign out of the application. Optionally a whitelist notification area can be presented that indicates the whitelists that being employed to restrict access to content which in this example is GRADE K 6 TOKEN . In this non limiting example a search for ANIMALS was entered in search area . Search results area depicts videos that identified in the GRADE K 6 TOKEN whitelist including WORM VIDEO A KITTEN VIDEO B GIRAFFE VIDEO D ELEPHANT VIDEO F FISH VIDEO G and BIRD VIDEO H which are visible in a results list generated by search component and videos and J which are partially shown in the results lists. It is to be appreciated in this example that BEAR MAULING VIDEO C and SHARK ATTACK VIDEO E shown in are not shown in the results list as they were not included in the GRADE K 6 TOKEN whitelist. It is to be appreciated that the results list depicted in search results area can include any number of videos and can be navigated using any suitable mechanism a non limiting example of a scrolling control element is depicted. It is to be appreciated that in a non limiting example if no search term is entered all available videos on the GRADE K 6 TOKEN whitelist can be listed in search results area . In another non limiting example a subset of available videos on the GRADE K 6 TOKEN whitelist can be presented for example based upon inferred interests of USER 1 .

Referring to is depicted a non limiting example user interface associated with a video application content site presented by content presentation component when USER 1 has selected ELEPHANT VIDEO F for playback. Notification area indicates the video application content site is being employed in EDU MODE educational mode meaning that the video application content site is being accessed with whitelist restrictions. Function title area indicates the current functional area of the application as VIDEO PLAYER for playing back a video. Furthermore user interface includes user area that indicates the current user signed into the video application which in this example is USER 1 and that also provides a sign out selection element for the user to sign out of the application. Video playback area depicts video player playing back ELEPHANT VIDEO F and a see more selection element for showing related content. For example see more selection element can be selected by USER 1 to show content related to ELEPHANT VIDEO F non limiting examples of which include videos from the same content provider videos with similar subject matter or any other criteria for identifying related content. It is to be appreciated that in EDU MODE the related content from see more selection element is limited to content in the one or more whitelists as discussed above in relation to . It is to be appreciated that in NORMAL MODE the related content from see more selection element is not limited to content in whitelists as discussed above in relation to . Optionally playback controls appropriate for the content can be presented. In this example slider control A is shown that allows for selection of point of playback of the video content depicted. In addition rewind control B stop control C pause control D play control E and fast forward control F are depicted.

Referring to an exemplary method for issuing a token is depicted. At reference numeral a request for issuance of a token is received from a client device associated with an entity e.g. by a token issuing component . At reference numeral a token with a unique identifier is issued to the entity e.g. by token issuing component . At reference numeral a decision is made whether the request to issue a token was associated with creating a custom whitelist e.g. by a token issuing component . If the decision is NO meaning the request is not associated with creating a custom whitelist the method proceeds to reference numeral . If the decision is YES meaning the request is associated with creating a custom whitelist the method proceeds to reference numeral . It is to be appreciated that the operation at reference numeral is not required if custom whitelists are not employed in which case the method would proceed from reference numeral to reference numeral . At reference numeral the issued token is associated with a global whitelist by a token issuing component . At reference numeral the issued token is associated with the custom whitelist e.g. by a token issuing component .

Referring to an exemplary method for presenting content is depicted. At reference numeral a request for access to content is received from a client device associated with an entity e.g. by a content server or a token receiving component . At reference numeral a decision is made whether one or more tokens were associated or received with the request e.g. by a content server or a token receiving component . If the decision is NO meaning one or more tokens were not associated or received with the request the method proceeds to reference numeral . If the decision is YES meaning one or more tokens were associated or received with the request the method proceeds to reference numeral . At reference numeral a user interface is presented in normal mode along with content by a content presentation component content user interface component or a search component . At reference numeral one or more whitelists associated with the one or more tokens are identified by a token receiving component . At reference numeral a user interface is presented in whitelist restricted mode along with content associated with the identified one or more whitelists by a content presentation component content user interface component or a search component .

Referring to an exemplary method for generating a global whitelist is depicted. At reference numeral content filtering criteria is received e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist generation component . At reference numeral a library of content is searched based upon the content filtering criteria e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist generation component . At reference numeral a global whitelist is generating based upon the results of the search at reference numeral e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist generation component . In a non limiting example all content identified in the search results can be excluded from the global whitelist. In another non limiting example all content identified in the search results can be included in the global whitelist.

Referring to an exemplary method for generating a custom whitelist is depicted. At reference numeral a whitelist editing mode user interface is presented e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist user interface component . At reference numeral custom whitelist input is received specifying content to add to or exclude from a custom whitelist e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist user interface component . At reference numeral a custom whitelist is generating based upon custom whitelist input e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist generation component . At reference numeral a decision is made whether the generated custom whitelist is new e.g. by a whitelist component or whitelist generation component . If the decision is YES meaning the generated custom whitelist is new the method proceeds to reference numeral . If the decision is NO meaning the generated custom whitelist is not new the method ends. At reference numeral a new token is issued and associated with the generated custom whitelist e.g. by a token issuing component .

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where media may be found. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various embodiments of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of various embodiments of this disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any suitable network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various embodiments herein.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client process may utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting transaction services or tasks that may implicate the techniques for systems as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Objects etc. may also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments. Accordingly the computer described below in is but one example of a computing device that can be employed with implementing one or more of the systems or methods shown and described in connection with Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer such as a media server or other media management server components.

Although not required embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing device for implementing one or more embodiments in the form of a computer is depicted. Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation system memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touchscreen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner or any other device that allows the user to interact with computer . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish or consume media in a flexible way.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques described herein. Thus embodiments herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described herein. Thus various embodiments described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the aspects disclosed herein are not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer is typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function e.g. coding and or decoding software stored on a computer readable medium or a combination thereof.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In order to provide for or aid in the numerous inferences described herein e.g. inferring relationships between metadata or inferring topics of interest to users components described herein can examine the entirety or a subset of the data to which it is granted access and can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment etc. from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data.

Such inference can result in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines etc. can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier can map an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class as by f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hyper surface in the space of possible inputs where the hyper surface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

In addition to the various embodiments described herein it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described herein and similarly storage can be effected across a plurality of devices. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited to any single embodiment but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

