---

title: Array modeling for one or more analog devices
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques for creating an array model for analog device modeling are provided. In an embodiment, the array model represents a mean value or a standard deviation value of an analog device characteristic for an analog device based on a physical location of the analog device within a circuit layout, where the physical location is identified using a physical set of coordinates. The physical set of coordinates maps to an array set of coordinates of the array model. In this manner, a mean value and a standard deviation value are obtainable from the array model using the array set of coordinates. The mean value and the standard deviation value are usable to model the analog device, and thus a circuit within which the analog device is used, to obtain a more accurate or realistic prediction of operation or behavior, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547734&OS=09547734&RS=09547734
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09547734
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120828
---
Generally a circuit comprises one or more circuit elements. In an example a circuit element of the one or more circuit elements is an analog device such as a resistor capacitor metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET thin fin field effect transistor FinFET bipolar junction transistor BJT diode varactor etc. An analog device is generally associated with an analog device characteristic that is affected by various types of variation. However this variation is unaccounted for in traditional models. Thus simulations based on a traditional model are not sufficiently accurate.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more techniques for creating an array model for analog device modeling for associating an array model with a circuit element of a schematic simulation and for creating a netlist for an array model are provided herein. For example an array model is created to represent an analog device characteristic for an analog device based on a physical location of the analog device. In an embodiment the array model characterizes the analog device characteristic using a mean value and a standard deviation value according to the physical location of the analog device within a circuit layout.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Generally a circuit comprises one or more circuit elements where one or more of the circuit elements comprise an analog device such as a resistor a capacitor a transistor etc. respectively having one or more analog device characteristics. It is generally advantageous to simulate a circuit in a simulation environment to model the behavior of the circuit such as the interaction of different analog devices with one another within the circuit for example. However the behavior of an analog device in the real world is often different than an expected or theoretical behavior of the analog device. For example a resistor that is in theory supposed to have a resistance of 1 kOhm may in reality have a resistance of 0.9 kOhms. Accordingly to more accurately model the behavior of an analog device in a simulation environment and thus the overall behavior of a circuit comprising the analog device it is desirable to use a device characteristic more reflective of the real world behavior of the analog device rather than a theoretical characteristic of the analog device. It will be appreciated that an analog device characteristic comprises a variety of possible characteristics. For example in an embodiment the analog device characteristic is at least one of a resistance a capacitance an inductance a transconductance a conductance a diode model a current source a voltage source a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET characteristic a field effect transistor FET characteristic a fin field effect transistor FinFET characteristic a bipolar junction transistor BJT characteristic a varactor characteristic a diode characteristic etc. Often an analog device characteristic for an analog device varies based upon a location of the analog device within a circuit layout or rather where the analog device is physically located when created in the real world. For example an analog device located at or near a center of a circuit layout generally comprises an analog device characteristic that is closer to a theoretical analog device characteristic for the analog device whereas an analog device located at or near an edge of the circuit layout generally comprises an analog device characteristic that is further away from the theoretical analog device characteristic for the analog device. For example a device characteristic of an analog device is a function of a gradient effect an edge variation or other location based effects that generally worsen as a device is formed closer to an edge of a circuit layout and away from a center of the circuit layout.

Accordingly as provided herein variations in an analog characteristic for an analog device particularly as relates to a location of the analog device in a circuit layout are addressed by using an array model that considers at least one of a mean and a standard deviation of the analog device characteristic as a function of the location of the analog device. In an embodiment the array model comprises a mean array and a standard deviation array. The array model represents the analog device characteristic across multiple physical locations such that an array set of coordinates of the array model corresponds to a physical set of coordinates for the analog device where the physical set of coordinates corresponds to the physical location of the analog device within a circuit layout. In this manner a physical location of the analog device as identified by a physical set of coordinates is mapped to the array model using the array set of coordinates. Mapping the physical location of the analog device to a corresponding location on the array model allows the analog device and thus a circuit comprising the analog device to be more accurately modeled at least because the array model considers a mean and a standard deviation for the analog device at that physical location.

As an example the analog device of is a resistor having a theoretical analog device characteristic resistance value of 1 kOhm. In an embodiment multiple example resistors fabricated at a first physical location in a circuit layout are measured and a first mean resistance value of 0.9 kOhm is determined for example. In other words one or more real world values associated with the first physical location are measured to determine a mean value or a standard deviation value for the array model. In an embodiment multiple example resistors fabricated at a second physical location in the circuit layout are measured and a second mean resistance value of 1.1 kOhm is determined for those resistors at that second physical location for example. Therefore the real world mean value for the resistor at the first location is 0.9 kOhm the real world mean value for the resistor at the second location is 1.1 kOhm rather than the theoretical value of 1 kOhm. Accordingly a mean array is created comprising at least a first mean element and a second mean element having mean values of 0.9 kOhm and 1.1 kOhm respectively for example. The first mean element is associated with a first array set of coordinates corresponding to the first physical location and the second mean element is associated with a second array set of coordinates corresponding to the second physical location. In an embodiment the first physical location is associated with a first physical set of coordinates mapped to the first array set of coordinates and the second physical location is associated with a second physical set of coordinates mapped to the second array set of coordinates. A standard deviation array is able to be developed in a similar manner. The standard deviation array comprises at least a first standard deviation element having a first standard deviation value associated with the first array set of coordinates corresponding to the first physical location. The standard deviation array also comprises a second standard deviation element having a second standard deviation value associated with the second array set of coordinates corresponding to the second physical location.

It will be appreciated that a mean value is likewise determined for a resistor or other analog device at the second physical location where the second physical location is mapped to a second physical set of coordinates and a second array set of coordinates. Additionally a standard deviation is able to be determined for the first physical location as well as for the second physical location .

Circuit layout shows a 3 bit capacitor array for example. The capacitor array comprises a first capacitor a second capacitor a third capacitor and a fourth capacitor . In this example BR BO B and B are merely names of ports or connections for respective capacitors and m is a multiple number associated with a count for respective capacitors. For example the first capacitor is associated with port connection BR and has a count of m 1 in circuit layout . Accordingly at the mapping of the array model there is one instance of the first capacitor at port connection BR at 2 1 at least because m 1. As another example the fourth capacitor is associated with port connection B and has a count of m 4 in circuit layout . In this example there are four instances of the fourth capacitor at port connection B at 1 3 2 3 3 1 and 3 2 at least because m 4 for example. In an embodiment the first capacitor comprises a port connection to BR the second capacitor comprises a port connection to BO a third capacitor comprises a port connection to B and a fourth capacitor comprises a port connection to B. In this example BR B B and B are associated with one or more cell indexes. In an embodiment one or more ports of respective capacitors are mapped to a table of cell indexes based on an associated physical set of coordinates associated with respective cell indexes. At a graphical representation of a port mapping for the array model is illustrated. In an embodiment the array model allocates port connections versus a cell index by mapping port connections into table . It will be appreciated that table is color coded in some embodiments such that ports BR B B and B are coded with differing colors for example. In an embodiment a circuit element is mapped to a cell index associated with the physical set of coordinates based on a physical location of the circuit element within a circuit layout. In other words the circuit elements such as the capacitors of are mapped to a cell index based on a location at which the respective capacitors will be fabricated. In this example array model maps port connection BR of the first capacitor to physical set of coordinates 2 1 . Therefore the first capacitor is associated with an array model associated with analog device characteristics for capacitors at 2 1 . In other words since the first capacitor will have a connection to 2 1 simulation data associated with the first capacitor is associated with a mean and standard deviation of an array model for that location where the array model is built based on measurements of multiple data points or capacitors fabricated at 2 1 . Additionally port connection BO of the second capacitor is mapped to physical set of coordinates 1 2 . Port connection B of the third capacitor is mapped to physical sets of coordinates 1 1 and 3 3 . In an embodiment port connection B of the fourth capacitor is mapped to physical sets of coordinates 1 3 2 3 3 1 and 3 2 . In this way the respective port connections for capacitors and are mapped to a cell index or an array set of coordinates. Therefore the respective capacitors are modeled with mean values and standard deviation values from an array model based on the array set of coordinates associated with the respective port connections. This enables more precise modeling for the respective capacitors at least because location based tendencies such as gradient or edge variations are accounted for during simulation. It will be appreciated that although four capacitors are illustrated this number is merely an example. Accordingly the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not limited by this example number as a number other than four is contemplated. Additionally it will be appreciated that analog devices other than capacitors are contemplated. For example an analog device is at least one of a resistor a capacitor an inductor a transconductor a conductor a diode a current source a voltage source a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET a thin fin field effect transistor FinFET a bipolar junction transistor BJT a varactor etc.

In an embodiment simulation engine is configured to perform a simulation based on the netlist and the circuit element. In another embodiment the simulation engine is configured to simulate the circuit element in a schematic simulation based on the mean value and the standard deviation value associated with the circuit element. In an embodiment the graphical user interface GUI component is configured to generate a port mapping file such as the array model of for example. In an embodiment the GUI component is configured to generate at least one of a text map a table an array or a plot indicative of the array model of graph of or graph of . In another embodiment the GUI component is configured to provide a graphical representation of at least one of the mean value or the standard deviation value plotted against at least one of the physical set of coordinates or the array set of coordinates such as graph for example. In an embodiment graphical user interface GUI component is configured to allow a user to manipulate the array model such as by inputting data to the model or selecting a subset of data within the array model.

In an embodiment a circuit comprising a circuit element is received. For example the circuit comprises a resistor in a resistor array such as the resistor array of . In an example the ninth resistor of the resistor array is selected. In this example the ninth resistor is associated with coordinates 2 2 and the size of the array is two by seven or 2 7 at least because array comprises two rows of seven resistors. In an embodiment a netlist is created. For example the netlist comprises a list of port connections and associated with circuit elements of the circuit such as the fourteen resistors of resistor array . In this way more accurate simulation is facilitated by the netlist at least because the netlist comprises array coordinates at column and column or physical coordinates associated with analog devices of column of an array of analog devices such as resistor array . For example an analog device characteristic of the analog device is modeled based on an array coordinates of column and column . In an embodiment a design rule check is executed on at least one of the netlist a port mapping file or an associated array model such as the array model of for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising a plurality of zero s and one s as shown in in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions is configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of or at least some of exemplary method of for example. In another embodiment the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In an embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to an aspect a method for creating an array model for analog device modeling is provided comprising creating a mean array comprising one or more mean elements. In an embodiment a mean element of the one or more mean elements of the mean array is associated with an array set of coordinates within an array model the mean element comprising a mean value indicative of a mean of an analog device characteristic for one or more analog devices at a physical set of coordinates mapped from the array set of coordinates the physical set of coordinates indicative of a physical location of the one or more analog devices within a circuit layout. The method comprises creating a standard deviation array comprising one or more standard deviation elements. In an embodiment a standard deviation element of the one or more standard deviation elements of the standard deviation array is associated with the array set of coordinates within the array model the standard deviation element comprising a standard deviation value indicative of a standard deviation of the analog device characteristic for the one or more analog devices at the physical set of coordinates. The method comprises creating the array model based on the mean array and the standard deviation array.

According to an aspect a computer readable storage medium such as a non transitory computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed via a processing unit on a computer perform a method for associating an array model for an analog device with a circuit element of a schematic simulation. In an embodiment a circuit element is received and mapped to a physical set of coordinates corresponding to a physical location at which the circuit element will be placed in a circuit layout. In an embodiment a mean value is associated with the circuit element based on the physical set of coordinates mapping to an array set of coordinates within an array model. In an embodiment the mean value is indicative of a mean of an analog device characteristic for one or more analog devices at the array set of coordinates. In an embodiment a standard deviation value is associated with the circuit element based on the mapping of the physical set of coordinates to the array set of coordinates within the array model. In an embodiment the standard deviation value is indicative of a standard deviation of the analog device characteristic for the one or more analog devices at the array set of coordinates.

According to an aspect a system for creating a netlist for associating an array model for an analog device with a circuit element of a schematic simulation is provided comprising an array netlist engine configured to receive a circuit schematic comprising a circuit element of a semiconductor device. In an embodiment the array netlist engine is configured to map the circuit element to a physical set of coordinates corresponding to a physical location at which the circuit element will be placed in a circuit layout. In an embodiment the array netlist engine is configured to associate a mean value with the circuit element based on the physical set of coordinates mapping to an array set of coordinates within an array model the mean value indicative of a mean of an analog device characteristic for one or more analog devices at the array set of coordinates. In an embodiment the array netlist engine is configured to associate a standard deviation value with the circuit element based on the mapping of the physical set of coordinates to the array set of coordinates within the array model the standard deviation value indicative of a standard deviation of the analog device characteristic for the one or more analog devices at the array set of coordinates. In an embodiment the array netlist engine is configured to create a netlist based on at least one of the circuit element the physical set of coordinates the array set of coordinates the mean value and the standard deviation value.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based upon this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

