---

title: Automatic determination of user alignments and recommendations for electronic resources
abstract: Various implementations for automatically determining user alignments and recommendations for electronic resources are described. One example implementation includes an assessment module, an alignment module, and a recommender. The assessment module determines performance levels of two or more users of an educational platform. The alignment module determines an alignment between the two or more users of the educational platform based on the performance levels of the two or more users. The recommender generates a recommendation for a social graph connection between the two or more users in a social graph based on the alignment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483606&OS=08483606&RS=08483606
owner: School Improvement Network, LLC
number: 08483606
owner_city: Midvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120813
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 523 144 entitled Assessment Collaboration and Social Networking filed on Aug. 12 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 523 163 entitled Common Core Standards filed on Aug. 12 2011 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to computing and more particularly to automatically determining user alignments and recommendations for electronic resources.

In recent years some governments have been adopting increasingly rigorous educational standards outlining what students are expected to learn in order to be considered acceptably educated. The educational systems implementing these standards have been imposing requirements related to these standards for their educators to meet. However these educational systems are often limited in providing educators who are struggling to meet the requirements with the assistance and resources they need to help them improve. For example while these systems may periodically evaluate the proficiency of their educators relative to these standards they are often slow to act on any results due to the number of reviews these systems have to process and other bureaucratic hurdles. As a result an educator who is evaluated as lacking in proficiency may continue to teach for the remainder of a semester or school year without receiving any assistance or resources to improve. Additionally the resources assigned by these educational systems to help educators develop and improve are often not current or targeted to their educators specific needs. Consequently the assistance and resources that educators do receive to help them develop professionally can be ineffective.

Furthermore some of these educational systems lack a collaborative and supportive social environment that is targeted to the needs of educators to help them develop and improve. For example an administrator may pair an educator who is underperforming in a given area with a more senior educator for advice or training. However this is often done without taking the individual needs and circumstances of the educator who is underperforming into account. As a result the senior educator while being accomplished in his or her own right may not have the relevant experience or background necessary to provide the most effective assistance or training necessitated by the needs of the underperforming educator.

According to one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure a system includes an assessment module an alignment module and a recommender. The assessment module determines performance levels of two or more users of an educational platform. The alignment module determines an alignment between the two or more users of the educational platform based on the performance levels of the two or more users. The recommender generates a recommendation for a social graph connection between the two or more users in a social graph based on the alignment.

In general another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure may be embodied in a method that includes determining performance levels of two or more users of an educational platform determining an alignment between the two or more users of the plurality based on the performance levels of the two or more users and generating a recommendation for a social graph connection between the two or more users in a social graph of the educational platform based on the alignment.

Other implementations of one or more of these aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices. These and other implementations may each optionally include one or more of the following features.

For instance the system may further include that the recommender is coupled to receive the alignment from the alignment module or a data store and the alignment module is coupled to receive the performance levels from the assessment module or a data store that the alignment module is configured to determine the alignment between the two or more of the users based on an alignment type that the alignment module is further configured to determine the alignment between the two or more of the users by identifying a first user having a performance level that does not satisfy a standard and identifying as a mentor for the first user a second user having a performance level satisfying the standard that the alignment module is further configured to determine the alignment between the two or more of the users by identifying as a learning community three or more users of the educational platform based on the performance levels of the three or more users and attributes common or compatible between the three or more users a communication unit for sending and receiving data a graphing module to define in a social graph a social graph connection between each of the two or more users that reflects the alignment that the recommender is coupled to the communication unit to provide the recommendation to the user for presentation and to receive a recommendation response from the user responsive to the recommendation being provided an aggregator to aggregate data including one or more of achievement data profile data standards data and assessment data that the assessment module is configured to determine the performance levels of the two or more users based at least in part on the data and an analyzer to identify an electronic resource interacted with by the two or more users and to recommend or assign the electronic resource to a user having an attribute compatible or in common with the two or more users.

For instance the operations may further include identifying a first user having a performance level that does not satisfy a standard identifying as a mentor for the first user a second user having a performance level satisfying the specific criterion identifying as a learning community three or more users of the educational platform based on the performance levels of the three or more users and attributes common or compatible between the three or more users providing the recommendation to a user for presentation receiving a recommendation response from the user responsive to the providing of the recommendation defining in the social graph a social graph connection between each of the two or more users responsive to the receiving of the recommendation response that the social graph connection reflects the alignment receiving an alignment request from the user that the determining of the alignment is made responsive to the receiving of the alignment request and the user is one of the two or more users aggregating data including one or more of achievement data profile data standards data and assessment data that the performance levels of the users are determined based at least in part on the data identifying an electronic resource interacted with by the two or more users and recommending or assigning the electronic resource to a user having an attribute compatible or in common with the two or more users.

These implementations are particularly advantageous in a number of respects. For instance they can generate user alignments and electronic resources recommendations that are based on the needs of the users of the educational platform automatically determine which electronic resources have been effective at helping users improve their proficiency and surface them for recommendation to a user or a user s supervisor generate a report summarizing and or recommending resources and user alignments targeted to the needs of a user determine learning community colleague and mentor alignments that are relevant to the users and based on their specific needs surface resources that have been determined as effective and or are targeted to the needs of the users of an alignment and automatically generate connections on a social network based on demographics assessments achievements content interaction user profiles and standards etc. It should be understood however that this list of features and advantages is not all inclusive and many additional features and advantages are within the scope of the present disclosure. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the present disclosure has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein.

The network may include one or more wired or wireless networks and may provide an interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. The network may have number of configurations or topologies such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other known configurations. For example the network may include but is not limited to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet mobile cellular networks including distributed radio networks and a hub providing a wireless wide area network WWAN a Bluetooth communication network a WiFi hotspot etc. The network may transmit data using a variety of different network communication protocols. Example communication protocols include but are not limited to user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS file transfer protocol FTP direct data connection various email protocols etc. Computing device such as client devices and servers and may couple to and communicate via the network using wireless and or wired connections.

The server the media distribution server the third party server the demographics server and the standards server may each include one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing data or instructions for execution by the one or more processors. For example the servers and or may each include a server a server array or any other computing device or group of computing devices having data processing storing and communication capabilities. In another example the servers and or may include a virtual server i.e. a virtual machine implemented via software. For instance the virtual server operates in a host server environment and accesses the physical hardware of the host server including for example a processor memory storage network interfaces etc. via an abstraction layer e.g. a virtual machine manager . It should be understood that the servers and or may be made up of any combination of devices and servers or only one device or server. Further while the servers and are depicted as being distinct computing devices or systems in other embodiments one or more of these servers and may be integrated into the same computing device or system.

In some embodiments the entities of the system including the servers and or may be implemented using cloud based architectures where one or more computer functions are performed by remote computing systems and devices at the request of a local computer device. For example the servers and or may be a cloud based distributed computing system having dynamically scalable and virtualizable resources and various functionalities of the servers and or may be carried out and supplemented by computing systems and devices distributed over the network .

The server includes an application engine for providing an educational platform. The educational platform may provide resources and functionality to its users for educational developmental or education management purposes such as primary and secondary education post secondary education continuing education professional development etc. The electronic resources and functionality may be used to teach curriculum to participants provide functionality to the participants to apply the curriculum practically teach skills to participants assist participants in integrating and applying those skills assess the success of participants in applying the skills evaluate whether additional learning is needed assess the overall effectiveness of the participants relative to various standards and the like.

By way of example the educational platform may be used by students teachers professors and administrators health care professionals such as nurses or physicians legal professionals such as lawyers judges or trustees corporate professionals such as officers directors managers or other internal corporate employees travel industry professionals such as pilots drivers skippers or the like financial professionals such as accountants brokers traders tax specialists or the like human relations professionals sales professionals service industry professionals government employees law enforcement personnel military personnel sports professionals and or personnel homeland security personnel any other workforce that requires professional training and assessment as to the assimilation and effectiveness of such training or the like.

The third party server the demographics server and the standards server host network based software applications operable to provide various services or functionalities to their end users. In some embodiments the servers and send data to and receive data from the server and the other entities coupled to the network . In the depicted embodiment the third party server is coupled to the network via signal line for communication with the other entities of the system the demographics server is coupled to the network via signal line for communication with the other entities of the system and the standards server is coupled to the network via signal line for communication with the other entities of the system . Additionally the third party server is coupled to the achievement data store and the assessment data store via signal lines and respectively the demographics server is coupled to the demographics data store via signal line and the standards server is coupled to the standards data store via signal line .

In some embodiments the third party server the demographics server and the standards server may store and provide access to data that is associated with users of the application engine .

In particular the demographics server may maintain demographics data associated with the users of the application engine and or the organizations with which they are associated e.g. work for attend belong to etc. . An organization may be any type of organized entity. For example the organization may be an academic institution a partnership corporation religious institution military institution non profit organization governmental body municipality or the like. In some instances sensitive information included in the demographics data is anonymized.

By way of example the demographics data may describe the ethnicity race age gender disabilities mobility socio economic status religious affiliation language location etc. of the users and or those they administrate teach or oversee the organizational structure of the entities with which the users are associated with such as an organization s geographic location size and make up and the changes in demographics that occur over time. As a further example in an educational setting the demographics of an educational system describe the system s region district s school s grade s classroom s subject s students teachers special education needs free and reduced lunch programs racial and ethnic makeup of students and teachers system student achievement historical data English language learning programs etc. For instance the demographics information may include the teachers education experience grade levels taught subjects taught specializations background residence areas of excellence or expertise etc. and the students grade level achievement level socio economic status ethnicity race spoken language special needs dependency on social programs etc.

The standards server may maintain standards data compiled and approved by a governing body which define requirements standards metrics benchmarks etc. hereinafter standards that are applicable to users of the system . For example in an educational setting the standards may establish the levels of attainment pupils much reach to be considered acceptably educated. The governing body may be an organization as described above. For example in an educational setting the governing body may be a governmental legislative or administrative body tasked with setting educational standards for primary secondary and post secondary school systems.

The third party server maintains assessment and achievement data applicable to users of the system . In some embodiments the third party server maintains this data in association with the online services it provides. For example the third party server may provide online services for human resource management surveying standardized testing accreditation or the like. The third party server is not limited to providing the above noted services and may include any other network based or cloud based service. For simplicity a single block for the third party server is shown. However in other embodiments several distinct third party servers not shown may be coupled to the network via distinct signal lines to provide distinct or competing services.

The achievement data may include test scores grades or other marks for evaluating the users themselves or those they administrate teach or otherwise oversee. For example in an educational setting the achievement data may include data describing how the students of teachers achieved relative to applicable educational standards. Additional examples of achievement data include but are not limited to college admission test data e.g. ACT SAT etc. advanced placement AP test data state standardized test data federal standardized test data grades etc.

The assessment data may include formal and informal assessments of the users. In an educational setting for example the assessment data may include formal evaluations informal evaluations formative assessments summative assessments student reviews of teachers and or administrators observations peer reviews parent reviews inter rater reliability data etc. In a further example the assessment data for a given teacher may include formal and informal evaluations performed by an administrator supervisor or human resources representative formative assessments of teaching performance student reviews peer reviews mentor or coach reviews etc. The achievement data and assessment data may be segmented by various criteria including for example district school administrator teacher subject student etc.

In the depicted embodiment the servers and respectively maintain their data in the data stores and and which are information sources for storing data and providing access to stored data. In some embodiments the data stores and and are respectively included in the memories of the servers and or and . In other embodiments the data stores and and are each included in a server or storage system distinct from but respectively accessible by the servers and or and . For example one or more of the data stores and may be storage systems distributed over the network such as an intranet or the Internet. Further while the data stores and are depicted in as distinct entities in other embodiments one or more of these data store and may be integrated into the same storage devices or systems or further segmented into additional storage devices or systems.

In some embodiments the servers and can respectively provide the server access to data stored in the data stores and and . For example these servers and may provide secure access to data respectively stored in the data stores and and over the network via APIs. In other embodiments the server is directly coupled to the data stores and via signal lines and respectively to access e.g. store modify and retrieve the data stored therein. The third party server the demographics server and the standards server may require system entities to be registered and authenticate in order to access the data maintained by them.

In some embodiments one or more of the data stores and may include a database management system DBMS executable by a processor to manage a collection of records files and objects including the media objects. For example the data stores and may include a structured query language SQL DBMS for storing data in multi dimensional tables having rows and columns and manipulate i.e. insert query update and or delete rows of data using programmatic operations e.g. SQL .

The client devices . . . are computing devices having data processing and data communication capabilities. In various embodiments the client devices may include one or more of wired or wireless network interfaces for sending and receiving network data a graphics processor a high resolution touchscreen or monitor a physical keyboard forward and rear facing cameras sensors such as accelerometers and or gyroscopes a GPS receiver a Bluetooth module memory storing applicable firmware various physical connection interfaces e.g. USB HDMI headset jack etc. etc. Additionally an operating system for managing the hardware and resources of the client device application programming interfaces APIs for providing applications access to the hardware and resources a user interface module for generating and displaying interfaces for user interaction and input and applications such as applications for making phone calls video calls web browsing messaging playing back multimedia social networking gaming capturing digital video and or images etc. may be stored in a memory and operable by a processor of the client device . The client devices . . . may be computing devices of the same type or of different types. For example the client device may be a desktop computer a laptop or a handheld wireless device which is capable of sending and receiving voice and or data communications.

In the depicted embodiment the client device is coupled to the network via signal line and the user interacts with the client device as depicted by line and the client device is coupled to the network via signal line and the user interacts with the client device as depicted by line . While illustrates two or more client devices the present disclosure applies to any system architecture having one or more client devices. The client devices and as depicted respectively contain instances and of a client application . These instances and are also collectively and independently referred to herein as the client application . In some embodiments these instances and reflect the same client application . In other embodiments these instances and may be distinct from one another in compilation but can provide similar functionality to the end user.

The client application may be stored in a memory not shown of a user device and accessible and executable by a processor not shown to render user interfaces receive user input and process data and send data to and receive data from the application engine . In some embodiments the client application generates and presents user interfaces to a user via a display not shown . For example the client application may generate and present the user interface depicted in based at least in part on information received from the application engine via the network . In some embodiments the client application is code operable in a browser launched on the user device the browser receives interface instructions from the application engine of the server via the network in the form of a mark up language e.g. HTML XML etc. style sheets e.g. CSS XSL etc. graphics and or scripts e.g. JavaScript ActionScript etc. and the browser interprets the interface instructions and renders an interactive Web User Interface WUI for display on the user device based thereon. In other embodiments some or all of the interface instructions are provided by the client application or by another locally or remotely operated application that specifies that the content be formatted and displayed according to an organization s specific needs and or standards. Other variations are also contemplated and within the scope of this disclosure. The client application is also operable to receive input signals from the user via an input device not shown of the user device and to send information to the application engine via a communication unit not shown coupled to the network such as one like or substantially similar to the communication unit .

In some embodiments one or more of the data stores and may also be included in and coupled to the bus . For example the data stores and may be local instances of the data stores and depicted in and the server may update these local instances at regular intervals e.g. using a batch process to reflect the data stored and maintained remotely. In other embodiments the server may aggregate data from the remote data stores and and store it in the data store . In yet other embodiments the server may access data stored by the remote data stores and via the network real time. It should be understood that these embodiments are provided by way of example and other configurations are contemplated and fall within the scope of this disclosure. Moreover the server depicted in is provided by way of example and it should be understood that the server may take other forms and include additional or fewer components without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example some or all of the data stores depicted in may be consolidated into a single data store or further divided into additional data stores without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In another example while not shown the server may include other components such as an operating system and input and output devices e.g. a computer display a keyboard and mouse etc. etc. In some embodiments the computer architecture depicted in may be applicable to the other entities of the system such as the servers and .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device not shown . The processor may be coupled to the bus for communication with the other components of the server . The processor may process data signals and may have various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processor may be capable of supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images perform complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling etc. It should be understood that the server may include various operating systems sensors displays additional processors and other physical configurations.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the processor and the other components of server . The instructions and or data may comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. For example the memory may store the application engine an operating system drivers and various other software. The memory may include a non transitory computer usable e.g. readable writeable etc. medium which can be any apparatus or device that can contain store communicate propagate or transport instructions data computer programs software code routines etc. for processing by or in connection with the processor . A non transitory computer usable storage medium may include any and or all computer usable storage media. In some embodiments the memory may include volatile memory non volatile memory or both. For example the memory may include a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or any other mass storage device known for storing information on a more permanent basis. It should be understood that the memory may be a single device or may include multiple types of devices and configurations.

The communication unit is an interface for sending data to and receiving data from other computing devices. In the depicted embodiment the communication unit is coupled to the network by the signal line . The communication unit may also be coupled to the media data store via signal line coupled to the data stores and via signal lines and coupled to the bus . In some embodiments the communication unit includes a network interface device I F for wireless or wired connectivity to the network . For example the communication unit may include a wireless transceiver a CAT 5 interface USB interface or SD interface etc. The communication unit may in some embodiments send and receive signals via the network using Wi Fi Bluetooth or various cellular protocols. The communication unit can link the processor to the network that may in turn be coupled to other processing systems. The communication unit can provide connections to the network and to other entities of the system using various communication protocols including for example those discussed above with reference to the network .

In the depicted embodiment the server includes an application engine which is software code logic or routines for providing the educational platform. As depicted in the application engine may include among other modules an aggregator a content module a social network module a graphing module an assessment module an analyzer an alignment module a recommender and a reporting module . In other embodiments one or more of these modules and may be integrated into a single module or divided into additional modules.

In various embodiments the application engine and its sub components and may be sets of instructions executable by the processor or logic included in one or more customized processors e.g. specific integrated circuits ASICs to provide their respective functionalities or may be stored in the memory e.g. RAM PROM FPROM ROM etc. of the server and are accessible and executable by the processor to provide their respective functionalities. In any of these embodiments the application engine and its components and may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the server .

The aggregator is software code logic or routines for aggregating data from various information sources that can be used for generating user alignments content recommendations analytics reports and the like. The aggregator may aggregate via the communication unit the data from various information sources coupled to the network e.g. etc. and store it locally in one or more data stores. In some embodiments the aggregator replicates the data stored in remote instances of data stores and in local instances of those data stores. In other embodiments the aggregator can store the data aggregated from the remote sources in the data store . In yet other embodiments some or all of the data aggregation can be omitted by incorporating one or more of the data stores and into the server .

In some embodiments the aggregator may aggregate the data at regular intervals. For example a batch program operating periodically every few minutes hours days weeks etc. may replicate the data stored in data stores and to one or more data stores of the server . In other embodiments the aggregator may retrieve data real time.

Data aggregated or generated by the aggregator and the other modules of the application engine including for example content module the social network module the graphing module the assessment module the analyzer the alignment module the recommender and the reporting module is collectively referred to as aggregated data. For example aggregated data may include but is not limited to demographics data content data interaction data standards data achievement data assessment data and profile data.

The content module is software code logic or routines for providing electronic resources to the users of the application engine . The users may be registered or unregistered users. In some embodiments the content module can provide content that serves as a gateway portal for the users and provides them an entry point upon logging into the server via their respective client devices to access the various information and resources provided by the application engine . The content module can also provide a catalog of electronic resources available to the users provide for the addition or removal of electronic resources transmit the electronic resources to the users of the service for consumption and log user interaction with the electronic resources.

In addition to its plain and ordinary meaning an electronic resource may include any electronic media for conveying information. An electronic resource can include one or more of textual data graphical data video data audio data etc. For example the electronic resource may include a dataset that includes text graphics video and or audio or any combination thereof etc. embedded therein. As a further example the electronic resource may be a webpage including one or more of text graphics video audio etc. In another example the electronic resource may be or include a downloadable or streamable media object including for example an electronic document e.g. portable document format PDF document electronic book e book digital video digital audio file vector graphics file etc.

The electronic resources may embody various tools included in the educational platform such as but not limited to educational resources publications reference texts online courses lesson plans planning tools community forums sharing tools curriculum mapping tools an industry standards viewer portfolio tools progress monitoring tools reporting tools etc. The users of the application engine may access these electronic resources for a number of purposes including but not limited to developing personally or professionally collaborating with other users receiving recommendations for alignments with other users or recommendations for specific electronic resources completing coursework receiving feedback from supervisors accessing reports tracking their progress and or the progress of their pupils or subordinates developing lesson plans and the like.

The electronic resources may be stored and accessed remotely locally or a combination of both. For example in some embodiments the media data store may store and provide access to electronic resources that include media objects such as video audio vector based files electronic books etc. In this example the content module may be coupled to the media data store either directly or via the media distribution server to access electronic resources stored therein and may be coupled to retrieve data from the data store to access the resources stored therein. In other embodiments some or all of the electronic resources may all be stored in the data store or another data store and the content module may be coupled to access the resources from the data store .

The content module is capable of receiving requests for electronic resources from users and fulfilling those requests by transmitting instances of the electronic resources to the corresponding client devices of the users or facilitating the transmission of instances of the resources by the media distribution server e.g. by providing an object or code e.g. a media player object to the client device that is operable to access the resources via the media distribution server . The content module can also receive e.g. from a client device of a user a new electronic resource along with metadata for it and store it in the media data store or the data store delete or inactivate an electronic resource stored in the media data store or the data store and update a resource library database either periodically or real time with any new electronic resources that have been added to inactivated or removed from the service.

When users consume or interact with the electronic resources provided by the content module the content module is capable of logging the consumption and interaction in the data store in association with those users. In some embodiments the content module may cooperate with the client application to log any user interactions with the electronic resources. For example when user interacts with a user interface generated and displayed by the client application the client application may send interaction data via the network to the content module . Additionally or alternatively the content module may receive interaction data from the media distribution server . The interaction data may include but is not limited to the identity of the electronic resource that was interacted with the identity of the user the time and date of the interactions the actions the user took e.g. selected or hovered over a user interface element such as a hyperlink menu element input field pause button play button scrubbing dial volume dial etc. maximized the viewing field added a comment paged through the resource downloaded a file completed a survey viewed an embedded video shared a resource with social network connections etc.

The social network module is software code logic or routines for providing social network functionality to the users of the educational platform. In some embodiments the social network module provides functionality for users to post content to their content streams for consumption by other users receive messages collaborate with other users post content to the content streams of other users add or remove users from their social graph participate in learning communities with other users receive or provide mentoring recommend or share electronic resources etc.

In some embodiments the social networking features provided by the social network module are integrated with the tools embodied by the electronic resources provided by the educational platform. This provides users the ability to collaborate and interact with one another on the electronic resources thereby driving user learning and implementation. For example in an educational setting users may use the social networking module to share discuss and collaborate on lesson plans curriculum maps coursework school improvement plans personal district or school goals documents training videos or podcasts or any other electronic resources. In a further example a group of users may be connected in the social graph as a learning community and may use a community forum provided by the social network module to interact discuss support and collaborate with one another about various topics electronic resources etc. The community forum may also facilitate face to face meetings for the users to further their interaction and collaboration. In another example video of a skilled teacher may be captured in a classroom setting demonstrating various effective teaching techniques related to one or more educational standards. This video may be uploaded to the server and shared via the social network module with struggling teachers who are connected in the social graph to the skilled teacher based on the standards and their performance levels relative to the standards.

In some embodiments to provide its functionality the social network module may access mapping information also referred to herein as a social graph stored in the social graph which maps how all users of the application engine are connected. A given user s social graph may include attributes that relate to or describe the user as well as the other users that the user is connected to and the attributes those connections are based on. In some embodiments social graph connections between users are based on compatible or common attributes. An attribute may include but are not limited to profile demographic assessment performance standards related content interaction biographical professional and or educational attributes.

For example in an educational setting users may be connected in the social graph using demographics data assessment data achievement data standards data profile data interaction data or any other data type described herein or aspect thereof. For instance educators of a school system located in a particular geographic area e.g. a state may be connected in the social graph based on their location school district school subject matter taught grade level taught education experience ethnicity calculated performance assessed performance student achievement standards background interests preferences consumption of electronic resources interactions with electronic resources submitted content demographics of their students e.g. whether they have students with disabilities on social welfare programs who speak English as a second language are of a particular race etc. etc. It should be understood that any attribute or combination of attributes derived from the various types of data aggregated by the application engine e.g. the content module the aggregator the assessment module etc. may be used to connect users in the social graph .

Connections in the social graph may be defined implicitly or explicitly. In some embodiments users are connected implicitly passively automatically by the application engine based on the data stored in the various data stores and as discussed elsewhere herein. In other embodiments the application engine may suggest user alignments and upon acceptance of those suggestions the application engine may define the social graph connections in the social graph to reflect the user alignments as discussed elsewhere herein. In yet other embodiments users may explicitly add users to their social graphs using an add user function provided by the social network module in cooperation with the client application . For example users who met at a math conference may add one another to their respective social graphs by using an add user dialog displayed by the client application . In some embodiments to add remove or modify social graph connections the social network module can interact with the graphing module for example by signaling it to perform the foregoing action. In other embodiments the functionality of the graphing module may be integrated with the social network module and the social network module may interact directly with the social graph to add remove or modify social graph connections.

The graphing module is software code logic or routines for creating modifying or deleting social graph connections in the social graph between two or more users of the system . In some embodiments the graphing module is coupled to the alignment module or the social network module to receive signals directing it to create social graph connections in the social graph . In some embodiments social graph connections may be based on user alignments identified by the alignment module and recommended by the recommender as discussed elsewhere herein. In other embodiments the graphing module defines social graph connections based on relationships defined by a user or automatically identified by the alignment module during a batch process analysis of the aggregated data. In yet other embodiments the graphing module receives instructions to create modify or delete social graph connections from the social network module . It should be understood that these embodiments are provided by way of illustration and other variations are contemplated.

The assessment module is software code logic or routines for assessing the performance levels of one or more users of the system . In addition to its plain and ordinary meaning assessing a user s performance level may include qualitatively or quantitatively assessing a user s compliance effectiveness achievement attainment efficacy perceptions attitudes etc. relative to one or more standards such as those included in the standards data stored in the data store and or the standards data store .

A performance assessment may reflect relative to one or more criteria e.g. standards a user s current performance level a performance level trend over a particular time period a past performance level a cumulative performance level a specific performance level an overall performance level etc. hereinafter referred to as performance level . The performance assessments may be formal or informal and may measure perceptions and attitudes in addition to standards. For example a performance assessment performed by the assessment module may reflect a formal annual evaluation submitted to an human resources department or informal assessment of a user conducted to provide the user with feedback on the state of his or her development. In various embodiments the assessment module can in cooperation with the client application provide functionality for an observer e.g. evaluator reviewer etc. to input observational assessments and the assessment module may receive those observational assessments and determine performance levels based thereon.

The assessment module can analyze various data stored by the server to assess the performance levels of users. In some embodiments the assessment module can analyze one or more of demographics data content data interaction data standards data assessment data achievement data perceptions and attitudes data and or profile data to perform the assessments. The assessment module may be coupled to the data stores and or to access this data. In an educational setting the assessment module may for example analyze achievement data of the students of one or more teacher s relative to one or more standards included in the standards data to determine the performance of the teacher s . In another example the assessment module may determine relative to one or more standards included in the standards data the performance level of the teacher based on a combination of the assessment data related to the teacher and the achievement data of the teacher s students which may reflect how the students are performing on various standardized tests. Like all examples discussed herein these examples are provided by way of example and are non limiting. In other embodiments the assessment data as aggregated may already reflect performance levels for some or all users and determination of performance levels for those users by the assessment module is unnecessary.

The assessment module may store the performance assessments levels as assessment data in the data store and or assessment data store in association with the users to which they correspond. In some embodiments the assessment module may automatically periodically e.g. at regular intervals assess the performance levels of all registered users of the application engine and store the assessments as assessment data in the data store and or assessment data store as assessment data in association with the users.

In some embodiments assessment data may be provided by the assessment module to the other components of the application engine such as the analyzer the alignment module the recommender the graphing module the reporting module for use by those components to perform their respective operations. In other embodiments these components may access the assessment data directly from a data store such as the data store or the assessment data store .

The analyzer is software code logic or routines for analyzing interaction data to identify electronic resources that have been interacted by various users and determining whether those electronic resources are effective. In some embodiments the analyzer may identify a group of two or more users who have interacted with various electronic resources and may identify the effectiveness of those resources based on the users performance levels.

The analyzer may query the social graph or another data store to identify these users. In some embodiments the analyzer may use one or more attributes of a target user to identify other related users. For example if a user submits a request to application engine requesting a recommendation for an electronic resource the analyzer may identify the other users based on an attribute of the requestor user . The one or more attributes may be provided to the analyzer by another component of the application engine may be pre determined or may be self determined by the analyzer . The analyzer can select from and or sort the resources it identifies based on one or more criteria. Examples of a criterion may include but are not limited to the level of user interaction with a resource e.g. views plays comments shares recommendations bookmarks downloads etc. the overall popularity of a resource the topics of popular resources the effectiveness of a resource the number of users connected to the target user who have interacted with the resource the number of users who share one or more common or compatible attributes with the target user and have interacted with the resource relevance of a resource to the user e.g. a subject taught by the user a combination of the foregoing etc.

In some embodiments the analyzer may determine the effectiveness of the resources based on the performance levels of the users as reflected by the assessment data. For example users of the application engine may interact with electronic resources provided by the content module to complete various assignments educate themselves on various topics improve various skills socially interact with others in their social network e.g. colleagues mentors etc. and so forth. Based on the users performance levels the analyzer can analyze how the users were performing before and after their interaction with the electronic resources to determine whether they have improved. The analyzer may determine the effectiveness of the resources based on the level and or pervasiveness of the users improvements. For example if a majority of users who at a particular point in time were deficient as reflected by the assessment data relative to a particular standard such as maintaining order in their classrooms consumed an online video directed to effective classroom management and were later determined to be proficient relative to that standard as reflected by the assessment data the analyzer can determine that video i.e. electronic resource to be highly effective. Conversely continuing this example if relatively few or none of the users were found to have improved the analyzer can determine that video i.e. electronic resource to be ineffective.

The analyzer may be coupled directly to the assessment module to retrieve assessment data e.g. performance levels for the users or may interact with the assessment data store and or data store to retrieve this information. The analyzer provides numerous advantages including but not limited to surfacing electronic resources that are the most effective for developing skills and knowledge in various areas so they can be recommended for consumption by the users of the application engine who stand in need of development in those areas.

The alignment module is software code logic or routines for determining an alignment between two or more users of the system . An alignment between users may include connecting two or more users based on one or more compatibility matches. Users may be matched as compatible based on one or more common or compatible attributes as reflected by the aggregated data e.g. demographics data content data interaction data standards data assessment data achievement data profile data etc. . The alignment module may access the aggregated data from the data stores and or or may receive it directly from the other modules of the application engine . Non limiting examples of user alignments include colleague alignments mentor alignments learning community alignments etc. These examples are discussed in further detail herein with reference to at least .

In some embodiments the alignment module may generate a user alignment responsive to receiving a signal for such from another component of the application engine such as the social network module the recommender or the reporting module and the alignment module may generate the user alignment and then provide it to the component requesting it. In other embodiments the alignment module may automatically determine user alignments. For example the alignment module may operate as a batch process at periodic intervals e.g. hourly daily weekly etc. and analyze the aggregated for user alignments.

In some embodiments the alignment module may store the user alignments it generates in a data store such as the data store and retrieve and provide them upon request. For example the alignment module may automatically generate user alignments ahead of time and then provide them to the recommender or the reporting module upon request. In other embodiments the alignment module may proceed to create social graph connections based on the user alignments it generates via the graphing module or the social network module . In yet other embodiments the alignment module may include the functionality of the graphing module and may define the social graph connections in the social graph directly.

The recommender is software code logic or routines for generating recommendations for the electronic resources and social graph connections to the users of the system .

To generate a recommendation for one or more electronic resources the recommender may in some embodiments signal the analyzer to identify one or more resources to recommend. In other embodiments the analyzer may automatically identify these resources at various intervals for example via a batch process. In yet other embodiments another component of the application engine such as the content module the reporting module or a request handler not shown may signal the analyzer to identify the one or more resources. Upon identifying the resources the analyzer may provide data describing the resources directly to the recommender or may store the data in a data store such as the data store for retrieval by the recommender .

To generate a recommendation for a social graph connection the recommender may in some embodiments signal the user alignment module to generate a user alignment and provide it for use in generating the recommendation. In other embodiments the alignment module may automatically generate the user alignment e.g. at various intervals via a batch process and may provide it to the recommender upon request. In yet other embodiments another component of the application engine may signal the alignment module to generate the user alignment such as the content module the reporting module or a request handler not shown may signal the alignment module to generate the user alignment and the alignment module may generate and provide it to recommender responsive thereto. Upon generating the user alignment the alignment module may provide the user alignment directly to the recommender or may store the user alignments in a data store such as the data store or the social graph for retrieval by the recommender .

The recommender is coupled to the data stores and or to access store or otherwise manipulate data stored therein. In some embodiments the recommender can store the recommendations it generates in a data store such as the data store for later retrieval. Additionally or alternatively the recommender may provide the recommendations it generates for presentation to users for which they are designated. In some embodiments the recommender may provide the recommendations by transmitting them to the client devices of the users via the communication unit and the network . By way of example the recommendations may be integrated or provided asynchronously with the content provided to the users by the content module may be sent directly to users via electronic message e.g. email text message instant message etc. may be integrated in reports generated by the reporting module and provided to the users etc.

The reporting module is software code logic or routines for generating and sending reports to the users of the application engine . In some embodiments the reports are rich informative reports describing the effectiveness of a user organization or electronic resource e.g. an administrator teacher student educational system district school instructional resource etc. relative to various standards which are generated based on assessment data e.g. teacher and student achievement data e.g. teacher and student demographics data inter rater reliability data profile data social graph data content data interaction data standards data or any other data generated or aggregated by the application engine or the components thereof.

An example report may describe the overall effectiveness of the users who report to an administrator the effectiveness of the resources they have been consuming may suggest more effective resources for assignment and consumption by underperforming users may suggest user alignments to facilitate collaboration between underperforming users and exemplary users e.g. mentors may suggest learning communities for the users to facilitate collaboration between and engagement among the users as well as effective electronic resources for the members of those communities to consume and collaborate on based on their needs may segment the users based on demographics compare different types of data to surface effectiveness indicia that may otherwise not be discernible from the analysis of a single type of data etc.

Another example report may be tailored to a specific user and that user s effectiveness and needs. This report may recommend user alignments and electronic resources as determined by the recommender in cooperation with the other components of the server . For instance the report may recommend a mentor for the user learning communities for the user to participate in colleagues who teach the same subject have the same student mix or have other attributes in common with the user for the user to connect with recommend electronic resources for the user to consume based on that user s needs summarize social network activity related to the user summarize a user s electronic resource assignments etc. depicts an additional non limiting example of a report that may be generated by the reporting module which is described in further detail below.

In some embodiments the reporting module can generate and provide a report responsive to receiving a request for such from a client device . In other embodiments the reporting module may automatically generate the report at certain intervals times etc. For example the reporting module may automatically generate reports for all outstanding assignments and send them to the administrator users who oversee the target subjects that the outstanding assignments correspond to. In some embodiments the reporting module may provide the report to one or more users e.g. a target user an administrator a supervisor a reviewer etc. by transmitting it as a webpage a portable document in an electronic message e.g. email text message instant message etc. .

The reporting module may be coupled to the various data stores and of the system and or the server to retrieve the data stored therein. In some embodiments the reports are generated based on the electronic resources identified by the analyzer and or the user alignments generated by the alignment module . In some embodiments the reporting module is coupled directly to the analyzer or recommender to receive the data describing these resources and to the alignment module or recommender to receive the user alignments. In other embodiments the reporting module may retrieve this data from a data store such as the data store .

In some embodiments the one or more electronic resources may be determined based on their content their popularity user interaction with the resources their effectiveness in helping users develop or improve and or other criteria. For instance the analyzer may analyze the assessment and or achievement data associated with the users along with the interaction data describing the electronic resources that the users have interacted with to advantageously identify electronic resources that have been effective in assisting the users to improve in a particular area for recommendation to a target user who is struggling in that area.

In some embodiments the method may be initialized by receiving a request for a resource recommendation. For example the request may be received from a client device or another entity of the system . A user for instance may submit a request for resource recommendation via an interface associated with the application engine . In other embodiments the method may self initialize e.g. at regular intervals or may be initialized by another component of the server .

Next the method generates a recommendation for the one or more electronic resources identified in block . In some embodiments the recommendation may be generated for any user including a user that requested it a user specified by another user a user automatically identified by the system e.g. the application engine as needing additional instruction etc. The method continues by providing the recommendation for presentation. To provide the recommendation recommender in some embodiments may transmit the recommendation via the network to a client device of a user for presentation. The method then terminates. The method provides numerous advantages including but not limited to recommending effective electronic resources that are personalized to the needs of a user.

By way of example a user alignment may align one or more users with high performance levels relative to an applicable standard and one or more users with low performance levels relative to the same or an associated standard to provide mentoring for the one or more underperforming users. For example the alignment module may determine based on assessment data achievement data and standards data which teachers are highly proficient relative to various standards and which teachers are poorly proficient relative to those standards and may align the highly proficient teachers to be mentors to the poorly proficient teachers. In some embodiments the method may also receive and store video of the highly proficient teachers demonstrating best practices for recommendation to the poorly proficient teachers by the recommender . In another example the user alignment may align two or more users whose performance levels meet or exceed an applicable standard for example to form a leadership or mentors group. Conversely two or more users with low performance levels may be aligned for training collaboration and support.

The method may in some embodiments begin responsive to receiving a request for a user alignment. For example the request may be received from a client device or another entity of the system . A user for instance may implicitly or explicitly request the user alignment via an interface associated with the application engine . In other embodiments the method may self initialize e.g. at regular intervals or may be initialized by another component of the server .

Next the method generates based on the user alignment an alignment recommendation suggesting a social graph connection between the two or more users in the social graph and provides the recommendation for presentation in a manner similar or the same as that discussed above with reference to . In some embodiments the recommender may perform the operations described in blocks and in cooperation with other elements of the server and the system . The method is then complete and ends.

In some embodiments various operations of the methods and may be combined to connect users and recommend pertinent resources to those users for them to consume and collaborate on. For instance the recommender may generate a recommendation that includes a user alignment of two or more users and as well as content for those users to consume and collaborate on. For example two or more users may be aligned and recommended an electronic resource that is pertinent to their alignment. For instance in a mentor alignment the electronic resource demonstrate the best practices of the mentor may be an instructional video that has been effective in helping other mentees with similar deficiencies improve etc. Based on the user alignment the users can connect via the social network module interactively and collaborative consume the content using the functionality of the content module and the social network module .

The method begins by receiving an alignment request. In some embodiments the alignment request may be received from a client device of a user on the user s own behalf. In other embodiments the alignment request may be received from a client device of a user on behalf of another user or users. In yet other embodiments the method may begin automatically without receipt of an alignment request. The alignment module the recommender or another module of the server such as a request handler not shown may receive the alignment request.

Next the method determines the alignment type and generates the user alignment based thereon. If in block the method determines the alignment to be a mentor alignment the method identifies as the mentee a first user that has a performance level that does not satisfy a specific criterion. The performance level may be determined in advance or at the time block is processed. The specific criterion may be tied to a standard as discussed elsewhere herein. The criterion may be predetermined or may be determined at the time the user alignment is being generated.

The method then identifies as the mentor a second user having one or more attributes in the common with the first user and a performance level that satisfies a specific criterion. The specific criterion for the first user and the second user may be the same criterion or a different criterion. For instance the mentor may be required to have a high proficiency rating relative to a given standard and the mentee may be required to have a poor proficiency to that same standard or the mentor may be required to have a high proficiency rating relative to a more demanding standard while the mentee may be required to have a poor proficiency rating relative to a less demanding standard. By way of further example based on an assessment of the first user s performance relative to a given academic standard the alignment module may use that standard as the criterion for determining the second user based on that user s performance.

As example of mentor alignment a user may be a teacher may have a large percentage of students who speak English as a second language may be struggling to teach those students effectively based on the assessment data for the teacher and or achievement data of the students. The user alignment may align that teacher with another teacher who has or has had a similar mix of students and has been highly proficient in teaching them based on the assessment and or achievement data applicable to him her.

In addition to identifying the first and second users based on performance levels the method may also use other attributes associated with the users to identify them. For example the method may base the identification of the first and second users on one or more attributes that are common or compatible between them.

If the method determines in block the alignment to be a colleague alignment the method identifies a first and a second user that are connected by at least one common or compatible attribute. If the method determines in block the alignment to be a learning community alignment the method determines as a community of users three or more users that share one or more compatible or common attributes.

As discussed above with reference to at least the social graph a common or compatible attribute that may connect the users of a mentor alignment colleague alignment or a learning community alignment may include but are limited to a demographic an assessment an achievement a standard a user profile attribute a content interaction a combination of the foregoing etc. In some embodiments the alignment module determines the alignment type in blocks and generates the alignment in blocks and or and provides the alignment to the recommender for the recommender to use to generate the recommendation. In other embodiments the social network module the recommender a request handler e.g. a component of the application engine such as a request handler that includes routines for processing requests not shown or another module of the application engine made the determination in blocks and and signal the alignment module to generate the alignment in blocks and or and provide it to the recommender . Other configurations are also contemplated.

The method continues by generating an alignment recommendation in a manner substantially similar to or the same as that discussed above with reference to . In particular the alignment recommendation may include a recommendation for a social graph connection between the users of the mentor alignment identified in blocks and between the users of the colleague alignment in block or between each of the users of the learning community identified in block . The method then provides the recommendation for presentation in a manner similar to or the same as discussed above with reference to and terminates.

The methods and boast numerous advantages including aligning users aligning users who are struggling with users who can provide mentorship and support aligning users who share common attributes into a learning community so they can collaborate on various aspects of their own development or the development of those they instruct or oversee helping users discover others users who share common goals can provide mentoring or with which they can collaborate with. This in turn can increase user engagement and interaction and ultimately can help users to improve their effectiveness.

The method begins by determining performance levels of the plurality of users in a manner similar to or the same as that discussed above with reference to for example. Next the method identifies two or more users of the plurality users that have one or more attributes in common and determines one or more electronic resources that have been interacted with by the two or more users in a manner similar to or the same as that discussed above with reference to least for example. In some embodiments the method performs the operations in block and responsive to receiving a request instruction. In other embodiments the method automatically performs the operations in blocks and . For example recommendations and reports may automatically be generated by the method and provided periodically to the users via electronic message e.g. email text message instant message etc. . In another example a user may expressly request a recommendation or report be provided via an associated user.

The method continues by determining whether to provide a recommendation or a report in blocks and respectively. The determination in blocks may be based on a request for a recommendation or report received from a client device of a user or may be based on a predefined setting. In some embodiments the content module or request handler not shown may perform the operations of blocks and . For example if the content module or request handler determines to provide a recommendation it can signal the analyzer to identify the electronic training resource s in block and if the content module or request handler determines to provide a report it can signal the reporting module to generate the report in block . In other embodiments the recommender and reporting module may perform the operations of blocks and respectively. Other configurations are also contemplated.

If the method determines to provide a recommendation the method identifies from the one or more electronic resources determined in block at least one electronic training resource to recommend based on the assessment and or achievement data e.g. performance levels corresponding to the two or more users identified in block . In some embodiments the analyzer identifies the electronic training resource s to recommend. The method then generates a recommendation based on the electronic training resource s identified in block and provides the recommendation for presentation. For example the recommender may generate the recommendation and transmit it via the communication unit and the network to a client device of a user requesting it or designated to receive it.

Alternatively if the method determines to provide a report the method generates the report based at least on the assessment and or achievement data e.g. performance levels of the two or more users identified in block and provides the report for presentation to a user . A non limiting example of a report that may be provided is discussed below with reference to at least .

The method then determines what type of recommendation the recommendation response is based on and if in block the type of recommendation is determined to be an alignment the method creates a social graph connection between the two or more users associated with the recommendation. In some embodiments if an alignment recommendation was provided such as a mentor alignment recommendation a colleague alignment recommendation or learning community alignment recommendation the graphing module can update the social graph with a social graph connection between the users associated with that recommendation.

Alternatively if the method determines the recommendation type to be an electronic training resource the method in block assigns the resource or provides the resource for presentation. In some embodiments a request handler not shown may receive the recommendation response in block and may further signal one or more components of the application engine to perform the operations of blocks and . In some embodiments a recommendation may be a recommendation to a supervisor of a user suggesting that an electronic training resource be assigned to the user. In these embodiments the recommendation response may reflect the supervisor s acceptance of the recommendation and the method in block may assign the electronic training resource to the user for completion. For instance the assessment module or content module may assign the resource by updating the user s profile in a data store such as the data store with an entry reflecting the assignment. In other embodiments the recommendation may be a recommendation to a user to consume an electronic training resource such as a resource that has been identified as effective to assist the user with his her professional development in a particular area. In these embodiments the method may assign e.g. via the assessment module or the content module the resource for completion at a later time or may provide the resource e.g. via the content module to a user device of the user for presentation. The method then terminates.

Next the method determines one or more second users based on one or more commonalties e.g. common attributes between the first user and the one or more second users and determines at least one second electronic training resource associated with the second users. For example in educational setting a commonality between the first and second users may be a subject such as English taught by the first and second user and the second electronic training resource may be an online video that the second users interacted with consumed to improve their effectiveness in teaching students on how to diagram sentences. In some embodiments the analyzer determines the one or more second users and interacts with or uses data stored by the content module to determine the second electronic training resource s .

The method continues by generating a recommendation recommending the second electronic training resource s to the first user for consumption and providing the recommendation for presentation to the first user. In some embodiments the recommender generates the recommendation based on the information determined in block and and provides the recommendation by transmitting it via the network to a client device of the first user. The method then terminates.

It should be understood that the embodiments described in this disclosure are provided by way of illustration and example and should not be considered limiting and that other variations and combinations of these embodiments are contemplated and within the scope of the present disclosure. Moreover unless stated otherwise the various different embodiments described herein should not be considered as being mutually exclusive and can be integrated in various ways or may be further divided into various discrete devices components and methods. For example various operations of the methods or may be expanded upon by operations included in one or more of methods or by concatenating and or substituting various blocks from these methods all of which are encompassed by the present disclosure. Further it should be understood that in some instances the methods may be iterated more than one time to produce various results. Additionally the usage of the terms first second etc. in various places in this disclosure does not necessarily imply a specific order or rank and is used in some cases to help the reader discern between various objects items elements etc.

Referring now to an example report is described. It should be understood that the report illustrated in is provided merely by way of example and that other reports may be generated and displayed by the client application to allow the server to present information to one or more users. For example various user interfaces may be produced to display reports and statistics display dialogs set parameters and settings provide resource and user alignment recommendations send electronic communications view listen to and or interact with the electronic resources provided by the professional development service etc.

In the depicted embodiment example report is displayed via a user interface including various interactive user interface elements. In this particular example the example report includes the performance of the teachers of a school relative to criteria e.g. standards that have been set along with a summary of the professional development activities performed by those teachers and an indication about effectiveness of those activities. The example report interface includes a segment selector a time period selector a view details link a compliance region and a non compliance region . The segment selector is a user interface element for selecting a teacher segment. For example as depicted the segment of 4th Grade Teachers has been selected and as a result information about this segment of teachers is displayed in the compliance and non compliance regions and . In an another example if the user selects another segment of teachers such as all of the teachers of the school or the teachers of another grade e.g. 5grade the compliance and non compliance regions and would be updated with corresponding information about that segment of teachers.

The time period selector is the user interface for selecting a time period for the report. In some embodiments the report may be limited to including information pertaining to certain date ranges. For example as depicted the report is configured to display results for the fall semester of year 2011. Any other date ranges or time periods are also contemplated. In other embodiments the evaluation period selector may be unset or set to include all time periods and the report may display information covering all time periods.

The view details link is a user selectable interface element that provides the user interacting with the report the option to view additional information about the selected segment of teachers. In some embodiments selecting the view details link displays a hidden field region including detailed information about those teachers. In other embodiments selecting the view details link displays a pop up or additional dialog including detailed information about the teachers. The detailed information may include any information stored and or aggregated about the teachers such as demographic information standards that apply to teachers performance levels profile information student information classroom information etc.

The compliance region is a content region for displaying information about the teachers determined to be meeting the various standards applicable to them. The compliance region may include a view details link used resource region and a suggested resources region . The view details link is a user selectable interface element that provides a user interacting with the report the option to view compliance information. In some embodiments selecting the view details link displays a hidden field including the compliance information. In other embodiments selecting the view details link displays a pop up dialog including the compliance information. The compliance information may describe the teachers performance relative to the job criteria e.g. standards . This information may include data contrasting the complaint teachers with non compliant teachers graphs showing overall compliance of a subject grade school district etc. graphs showing performance trend lines over time an indication of the teachers effectiveness both individually and as a group and the like.

The used resource region is a content region for displaying the electronic resources consumed by the teachers who have been deemed as compliant relative to the job criteria e.g. standards . In some embodiments the electronic resources reflect the best or most effective electronic resources as determined by the analyzer . The used resource region may include descriptive information about the resources including metadata such as who viewed the resources the authors of the resources the resource titles a media player window for previewing audio video based resources etc.

The suggested resources region includes recommendations for additional electronic resources that can be assigned by the user interacting with the report to one or more of the complaint teachers. The additional electronic resources may be recommended by the recommender in cooperation with analyzer based on their effectiveness on helping other teachers with similar attributes to continue to improve or to maintain a high level of proficiency in various areas and with various skills and techniques. In some embodiments the suggested resources region includes an assignment selector for assigning one or more of the recommended electronic resources to one or more of the compliant teachers. For example upon selecting a teacher or teachers with the assignment selector the client application generates and sends an assignment request to the assessment module requesting the electronic resource be assigned for completion to that teacher s . The assessment module may then track whether the teachers completed the assignment and can provide an indication thereof in the assessments generated by it. In some embodiments assignment criteria may also be specified such as a due date when assigning the recommended resources using various interface elements not shown and the assessment module may use the assignment criteria to determine whether the assignment was completed successfully.

The non compliance region is a content region for displaying information about the teachers determined not to be meeting the standards that apply to them. The non compliance region may include a view details link used resource region and a suggested resources region . The view details link is a user selectable interface element that provides a user interacting with the report the option to view non compliance information. In some embodiments selecting the view details link displays a hidden field including the non compliance information. In other embodiments selecting the view details link displays a pop up for additional dialogue including the non compliance information. The non compliance information may describe how the teachers are performing relative to the applicable standards. This information may include data contrasting the non complaint teachers with compliant teachers graphs showing overall compliance of a subject grade school district etc. graphs showing performance trend lines over time an indication of the teachers effectiveness both individually and as a group and the like.

The used resource region is a content region for displaying the electronic resources consumed by the teachers who have been deemed as being non compliant e.g. by the assessment data . In some embodiments the electronic resources reflect the most popular electronic resources used by the non compliant teachers as determined by the analyzer or the most popular resources used by the compliant teachers with students of similar demographics to the non compliant users thereby implying that those resources have been successful for the compliant teachers and could yield likewise results for the non compliant teachers. The used resource region may include descriptive information about the resources including metadata such as who viewed the resources the authors of the resources the resource titles a media player window for previewing audio video based resources etc.

The suggested resources region includes recommendations for electronic resources that can be assigned by the user interacting with the report to one or more of the non complaint teachers. The recommendations for these electronic resources may be generated by the recommender in cooperation with the analyzer based on effectiveness of the resources in helping other teachers with similar attributes to meet the standard s and become compliant. The suggested resources region may in some embodiments include an assignment selector for assigning one or more of the electronic sources described in the suggested resources region to one or more of the non compliant teachers. The functionality of the assignment selector is the same or substantially similar to the assignment selector and will not be described again here. While not depicted in some embodiments a region or dialog for providing recommendations for user alignments such as mentor colleague and learning community alignments for the compliant and non compliant teachers may also be included and may be accepted by the user viewing the report.

Various embodiments for automatically determining user alignments and recommendations for electronic resources have been described. In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It should be understood that the technology described in the various example embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Reference in the present disclosure to some embodiments an embodiment an example embodiment other embodiments etc. means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the description. The appearances of the phrase in some embodiments in various places in the present disclosure are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiments.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including for example processing or computing or calculating or ranking or identifying or determining or displaying or receiving or conducting or collecting or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present embodiment of the present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium including for example any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The present disclosure can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In some embodiments the present disclosure is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems wireless adapters and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present disclosure as described herein.

It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present disclosure or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present disclosure is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the subject matter set forth in the following claims.

