---

title: Identifying and generating biometric cohorts based on biometric sensor input
abstract: Biometric data, which identifies a set of biometric patterns, is received from a set of biometric sensors. The biometric data is processed to form digital biometric data that identifies attributes of the biometric data. Thereafter, a biometric cohort is generated using the digital biometric data. Each member of the set of biometric cohorts shares at least one biometric attribute in common.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165216&OS=09165216&RS=09165216
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09165216
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120210
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 333 316 filed on Dec. 12 2008 and entitled Identifying and Generating Biometric Cohorts Based on Biometric Sensor Input which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and apparatus for identifying and generating cohorts. Still more particularly the present invention relates to a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product for generating biometric cohorts from biometric data captured by biometric sensors.

Biometrics is a science based on the measurement and analysis of biometric data. Biometric data is data gathered from the monitoring of people animals or other living organisms. In particular biometric data may include for example measurement and analysis of physiological characteristics such as fingerprints retinas and irises facial patterns hand measurements heart rate body temperature perspiration and respiration.

Currently biometric data is most commonly used for identifying and authenticating individuals. The owner of a biometric identifier such as a fingerprint or facial pattern is first enrolled in a biometric identification system. During the enrollment process metadata describing the biometric identifier is stored. The biometric identifier is captured by a biometric sensor. Examples of biometric sensors may include for example heart rate monitors image captured devices or other forms of sampling devices. Thereafter the owner s identity may be verified by providing a subsequent sample of the biometric identifier for verification.

The illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product for generating biometric cohorts. In one embodiment biometric data is received which identifies a set of biometric patterns. The biometric data is received from a set of biometric sensors. The biometric data is processed to form digital biometric data that identifies attributes of the biometric data. Thereafter a biometric cohort is generated using the digital biometric data. Each member of the set of biometric cohorts shares at least one biometric attribute in common.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device.

Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

In an illustrative example a client computer such as client may host a biometric pattern processing engine and a cohort generation engine for generating a set of biometric cohorts. The biometric cohorts include one or more monitored subjects. The biometric cohorts may be generated from biometric data received from a set of biometric sensors such as set of biometric sensors in . In addition the client computer may also host an inference engine for generating inferences related to the set of biometric cohorts.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and connect to network . Clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example. Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown.

Program code located in network data processing system may be stored on a computer recordable storage medium and downloaded to a data processing system or other device for use. For example program code may be stored on a computer recordable storage medium on server and downloaded to client over network for use on client .

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable program code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments. In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices. A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information either on a temporary basis and or a permanent basis. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard and mouse. Further input output unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer readable media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be in a tangible form such as for example an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . In a tangible form computer readable media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . The tangible form of computer readable media is also referred to as computer recordable storage media. In some instances computer recordable media may not be removable.

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system from computer readable media through a communications link to communications unit and or through a connection to input output unit . The communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples. The computer readable media also may take the form of non tangible media such as communications links or wireless transmissions containing the program code.

In some illustrative embodiments program code may be downloaded over a network to persistent storage from another device or data processing system for use within data processing system . For instance program code stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system may be downloaded over a network from the server to data processing system . The data processing system providing program code may be a server computer a client computer or some other device capable of storing and transmitting program code .

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown.

As one example a storage device in data processing system is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory persistent storage and computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example memory or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .

Biometric data may be collected by simple observation. For example common biometric data listed on a driver s license includes physical attributes. Physical attributes are characteristics that are readily observable and include for example height weight and hair color. Cohorts formed from these types of biometric data may be limited in its usefulness. However more robust biometric cohorts may be generated by taking into consideration more or different attributes such as behavioral attributes. Behavioral attributes are characteristics of cohort members that are observable over time and describe habits and or behavior. Examples of behavioral attributes include for example gait speech patterns manner of generating a signature and reaction to certain stimuli.

Cohorts are often generated based upon the selection of one or more attributes shared by members of the cohort. Thus each member of a biometric cohort shares at least one biometric attribute in common. The information used to identify the attributes of members of the cohorts is typically provided by the members of the cohort. However this information may be voluminous dynamically changing unavailable and or unknown to the members of the cohort or the entity selecting members of a cohort group. Moreover it may be difficult time consuming or impractical for an entity to access all of the information necessary to accurately generate cohorts. In addition unique cohorts are typically sub optimal because cohort creators lack the skills time knowledge and or expertise needed to gather cohort attribute information from available sources.

The illustrative embodiments disclosed herein recognize that biometric data collected by biometric sensors can be used to generate biometric cohorts populated with members sharing common attributes. A biometric cohort is a group of members who share at least one common attribute. Members of a cohort may be humans animals plants or places populated with forms of living organisms. Cohorts may be used in research marketing safety studies and many other various uses.

Therefore in one embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product is provided for generating biometric cohorts. A biometric cohort is a group of members who share one or more common biometric attributes. The common biometric attributes may be identified from patterns present in biometric data captured by a set of biometric sensors. As used herein the term set may refer to one or more. Thus a set of biometric sensors may be a set formed from a single sensor or two or more sensors.

The biometric data captured by the set of biometric sensors describes a set of biometric patterns of a monitored subject. The biometric data which is captured in an analog format or a digital format is processed and transformed into a digital format for use in a biometric cohort generation engine. If the biometric data is captured in an analog format the analog format is converted into a digital format. The biometric cohort generation engine receives the digital biometric data and generates cohorts from the biometric patterns in accordance with cohort criteria. In one embodiment the biometric cohort may be used in a system wide monitoring process to quickly and efficiently pass vital information to a real time computational process. Thus the embodiments permit a user to create biometric cohorts based on biometric data describing characteristics of one or more monitored subjects. Biometric cohorts are groups of members who are selected based upon one or more common attributes. Examples of attributes include for example skin tone body geometry body type body temperature eye color weight or any other attribute.

The illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product for generating biometric cohorts. In one embodiment biometric data is received which identifies a set of biometric patterns. The biometric data is received from a set of biometric sensors in an analog format. The biometric data is processed to form digital biometric data that identifies attributes of the biometric data. In addition the digital biometric data includes metadata describing the attributes of the biometric data. Thereafter a set of biometric cohorts is generated using the digital biometric data.

System is configured for generating set of biometric cohorts . Set of biometric cohorts is a group of members having one or more common attributes. Examples of biometric cohorts included in set of biometric cohorts may include for example members that have a similar body geometry heart rate body mass index or other biometric attributes. Set of biometric cohorts is generated from biometric data . Biometric data is analog data gathered from the monitoring of people plants animals or locations in which living organisms are present. Biometric data may include for example measurement and analysis of physiological characteristics such as fingerprints retinas and irises facial patterns hand measurements heart rate body temperature perspiration and respiration. Biometric data may also include measurement and analysis of behavioral characteristics such as gait speech patterns and reaction to certain stimuli.

Biometric data is collected from monitored subject . Monitored subject is one or more members of a population such as people or animals identified for inclusion in set of biometric cohorts . Biometric data is collected from monitored subject by set of biometric sensors . Set of biometric sensors is one or more sensors for measuring and or detecting biometric readings of monitored subject . The set of biometric sensors referenced herein may include for example at least one of an image capture device an audio capture device an odor detection device a heart monitor a blood pressure monitor a thermometer or other device for measuring body temperature a fingerprint scanner a thumbprint scanner a palm scanner a retinal scanner an iris scanner a breathalyzer a microphone capable of detecting a heart beat and or breath sounds a respiratory monitor a fetal heart monitor a blood sugar monitor or any existing or later developed sampling device. As used herein the term at least one of when used with a list of items means that different combinations of one or more of the items may be used and only one of each item in the list may be needed. For example at least one of item A item B and item C may include for example without limitation item A or item A and item B. This example also may include item A item B and item C or item B and item C. Thus the biometric sensors may include an image capture device an audio capture device an odor detection device a sampling device or any combination thereof.

A sampling device is a generic biometric sensing device that captures samples of biometric data. For example a heart rate sensor is a sampling device that captures samples of a monitored subject s heartbeat to determine a heart rate. The sampling device may capture biometric data at a first time interval and then capture a second biometric data at a second time interval. The biometric data collected at both the first and the second time intervals may then be processed in a manner that describes one or more attributes of a monitored subject. For example a respiration sampling device may determine a monitored subject has a resting respiration rate of twelve breaths a minute. At a second time interval immediately following a brisk walk the monitored subject may have a respiration rate of thirty breaths a minute. The change in respiration rate may serve as an attribute by which a biometric cohort may be generated.

Biometric data includes biometric patterns . Biometric patterns is a pattern of data exhibited by and or relating to monitored subject . For example biometric patterns may be a pattern of body types present at a monitored location. Biometric patterns may also be behavior exhibited by monitored subject . Biometric patterns may be used to identify a particular monitored subject.

Biometric data is sent to computing device for generating set of biometric cohorts . Specifically once received by computing device biometric data is processed by biometric pattern processing engine . Biometric pattern processing engine is a software application for processing biometric data to form digital biometric data . Digital biometric data is biometric data in digital format. In addition digital biometric data includes metadata describing biometric pattern which may also be used for identifying and describing a monitored subject such as monitored subject .

Biometric pattern processing engine includes metadata generator . Metadata generator is software for generating metadata describing biometric pattern that form attributes . In this manner the biometric patterns depicted in biometric data may form attributes upon which biometric cohorts from set of biometric cohorts are generated. The metadata describing attributes is included in digital biometric data .

Digital biometric data includes attributes . Attributes are one or more characteristics features or other property of a monitored subject. Attributes of a monitored subject may describe or identify biometric patterns such as biometric patterns . In addition attributes may be used to determine the identity of monitored subject . Attributes may be behavioral attributes or physical attributes. Behavioral attributes are attributes that describe habits or behavior of a monitored subject. Physical attributes are attributes that describe the appearance of a monitored subject.

Biometric pattern processing engine passes digital biometric data to cohort generation engine for generating set of biometric cohorts . Cohort generation engine is a software program configured for generating biometric cohorts. In an alternate embodiment cohort generation engine may request digital biometric data from a data storage device where biometric data is stored. In other embodiments biometric pattern processing engine automatically sends digital biometric data to cohort generation engine in real time as digital biometric data is generated. In addition another embodiment may have biometric pattern processing engine send digital biometric data to cohort generation engine upon the occurrence of a predetermined event. The predetermine event may be the expiration time completion of task such as processing biometric data occurrence of a timeout event a user request or any other predetermined event. Thus the illustrative embodiments may utilize digital biometric data in real time as digital biometric data is generated. The illustrative embodiments may also utilize digital biometric data that is pre generated and or stored in a data storage device until the digital biometric data is retrieved at some later time.

Cohort generation engine generates set of biometric cohorts with reference to attributes described by metadata provided by metadata generator . In addition cohort generation engine references cohort criteria in generating set of biometric cohorts . Cohort criteria is a set of criteria and or guidelines for generating set of biometric cohorts . Cohort criteria specifies a grouping of members into cohorts based upon predefined attributes such as for example body geometry body mass index height weight blood pressure hair color heart rate pheromone level and behavioral tendencies. For example cohort criteria may specify that a particular cohort group included in set of biometric cohorts should include all people having a body mass index within a predetermined range or all animals having a certain pheromone level.

Cohort generation engine may optionally process digital biometric data in data models . Data models are a set of one or more data models for processing biometric data and identifying attributes of monitored subject . A data model is a model for structuring defining organizing imposing limitations or constraints and or otherwise manipulating data and metadata to produce a result. A data model may be generated using any type of modeling method or simulation including but not limited to a statistical model a data mining model a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model or a simulation model.

In one embodiment digital biometric data is processed using one or more data models to create set of biometric cohorts . For example a data model from data models may be used to identify biometric patterns exhibited by customers in a retail environment. This information may then be used to create cohorts of customers having similar attributes. In this example cohorts of customers having a particular body type may be provided with incentives for purchasing a particular type of clothing that is overstocked and out of style.

Cohort generation engine generates set of biometric cohorts using cohort criteria and optionally the results of processing digital biometric data in data models and or comparisons of digital biometric data with known biometric patterns . Known biometric patterns are patterns derived from biometric data which are exhibited by monitored subjects over time. In one embodiment cohort generation engine compares biometric patterns of monitored subject with known biometric patterns for comparison. A particular biometric pattern may be compared to known biometric patterns . If a match is found the matching biometric pattern may be used to identify attributes of the monitored subject. In addition cohort generation engine may reference historical biometric cohorts in the processing of digital biometric data . Historical biometric cohorts are a set of one or more biometric cohorts identified from biometric data captured from monitored subjects over time. Thus for example if biometric data is collected from a single subject such as monitored subject cohort generation engine may determine whether monitored subject may be grouped into a pre existing biometric cohort described in historical biometric cohorts .

In one embodiment cohort generation engine provides set of biometric cohorts to inference engine . Inference engine is a software component such as a computer program that derives inferences based upon input such as set of biometric cohorts . Inferences are conclusions regarding possible future events or future changes in the attributes of cohorts that are drawn or inferred. Inferences are derived in accordance with knowledge base . Knowledge base is a collection of facts criteria factors and other information used to generate inferences . Knowledge base is depicted as being stored in data storage . However in other embodiments knowledge base may be stored in one or more remote data storage devices that may be accessed over a network connection.

For example set of biometric cohorts may be analyzed by inference engine to determine a cohort of individuals that would likely be more expensive to insure based upon a body type blood pressure readings rate of respiration or other biometric readings. For example inference engine may have access to information stored in knowledge base indicating that individuals with high blood pressure are more likely to suffer medical complications. Thus if inference engine detects a cohort of members having high blood pressure then in one example inferences may be presented to an insurance company for setting insurance rates. In yet another example inference engine may receive a set of biometric cohorts from members at a gym. Based upon the digital biometric data used to generate the set of biometric cohorts of the gym members inference engine may infer a cohort of gym members that may be using banned substances based upon an abnormal increase in muscle mass.

In this example in set of biometric sensors is implemented as a separate device than computing device . However in other embodiments set of biometric sensors may be embodied within a single device. Similarly computing device includes data storage . Data storage is a device for storing data. Data storage may be for example a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. In an alternate embodiment data storage may be located in a remote location accessible to computing device via a network such as network in .

Digital biometric data is data converted to digital format from biometric data collected from a set of sensors in analog format. In addition digital biometric data includes metadata describing set of attributes for one or more monitored subjects such as monitored subject in . Set of attributes are attributes such as attributes in . Set of attributes may include for example physiological attributes . Physiological attributes are one or more attributes of a set of monitored subjects. Examples of physiological attributes may include without limitation a monitored subject s resting heart rate blood pressure finger print pattern voice print respiration rate or body temperature.

Set of attributes may also include behavioral attributes . Behavioral attributes are one or more attributes of a set of monitored subjects relating to a common behavior. For example behavioral attributes may include metadata describing the monitored subject s gait. The monitored subject may take long slow strides or short quick strides. Behavioral attributes may also include reactions to observable stimuli. For example behavioral attributes may describe a monitored subject s increase in heart rate after consuming caffeine or a reaction to a medication.

Digital biometric data may also include other types of data for giving context to the attributes included therein. For example digital biometric data may include sampling time . Sampling time may indicate a date and or time that digital biometric data is collected. Biometric data such as heart rate respiration and perspiration may vary daily based upon the time of collection. Thus such information may be useful in generating biometric cohorts. In addition digital biometric data may include sampling location . Sampling location may indicate the location in which biometric data is collected. Sampling location may indicate circumstances that may be affecting the biometric data collected by a set of sensors. For example biometric data collected from a monitored subject in a classroom may differ from biometric data collected from the monitored subject in a crowded subway station.

Digital biometric data may also include identification of monitored subject . Identification of monitored subject is metadata identifying a monitored subject such as monitored subject in . A monitored subject may be identified based upon a comparison of the biometric data collected from the monitored subject such as biometric data in and stored biometric data derived from a prior enrollment of the monitored subject.

The process begins by making a determination as to whether biometric data from a set of biometric sensors is detected step . If the process makes the determination that biometric data from the set of biometric sensors is detected the process identifies a biometric pattern present in the biometric data step . Examples of biometric patterns that may be present in the biometric data may include for example a common physiological reaction to the same stimulus a heart rate within a particular range a specific body shape or some other type of biometric pattern from biometric data.

The biometric patterns are processed and parsed to form digital biometric data describing attributes of the monitored subjects step . The process then sends the digital biometric data to a cohort generation engine step before making a determination as to whether monitoring for biometric data should be continued step . If the process makes the determination that monitoring for biometric data should be continued the process returns to step . However if the process makes the determination that monitoring for biometric data should not be continued the process terminates.

Returning to step if the process makes the determination that biometric data from a set of biometric sensors is not detected the process continues to step .

The process begins by receiving digital biometric data from a biometric pattern processing engine step . The digital biometric data is digital biometric data such as digital biometric data in . In addition the biometric pattern processing engine is a biometric pattern processing engine such as biometric pattern processing engine in .

The process then identifies the cohort criteria step . The process generates a set of biometric cohorts using the digital biometric data with reference to the cohort criteria step and the process terminates thereafter. The set of biometric cohorts may include one or more biometric cohorts. Thereafter depending upon the particular implementation the set of biometric cohorts may be sent to an inference engine for generating inferences based upon the set of biometric cohorts.

Thus the illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product for generating biometric cohorts. In one embodiment biometric data is received which identifies a set of biometric patterns. The biometric data is received from a set of biometric sensors in an analog format. The biometric data is processed to form digital biometric data that identifies attributes of the biometric data. In addition the digital biometric data includes metadata describing the attributes of the biometric data. Thereafter a set of biometric cohorts is generated using the digital biometric data.

The biometric cohorts generated by the method and apparatus disclosed above enable the grouping of members into cohorts having similar attributes. The biometric cohorts are formed from the capture of biometric data from monitored subjects. Once formed the biometric cohorts may then be included in a system wide monitoring process to quickly and efficiently pass vital information to a real time computational process. The generation of biometric cohorts in the manner described above obviates the need for manual selection of cohort attributes thereby allowing the generation of more robust biometric cohorts. Once formed the biometric cohorts may be used for example and without limitation in sales marketing marketing research medical and diagnostic research public health demographic research marketing trends and safety and or security applications.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

