---

title: Methods and apparatus for implementing a self optimizing-organizing network manager
abstract: In some embodiments, an apparatus includes a management module implemented in at least one of a memory or a processing device. The management module is configured to receive a signal associated with a value of a performance indicator that a first process module is configured to optimize using a metric. The management module is configured to optimize a value associated with the metric based at least in part on the value of the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize and a value of a performance indicator that a second process module is configured to optimize using the metric. The management module is configured to send a signal to the first process module such that the first process module modifies a value of the metric based on the value associated with the metric.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369886&OS=09369886&RS=09369886
owner: Viavi Solutions Inc.
number: 09369886
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120907
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 532 850 filed Sep. 9 2011 and entitled Self Optimizing Organizing Network Manager which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Some embodiments described herein relate generally to Self Optimizing Networks SON and in particular to methods and apparatus for managing simultaneous SON processes in a wireless network using a SON manager.

Some known wireless networks implement manual network optimization that typically consumes a large amount of human resources. As a lengthy process the manual network optimization is typically performed only when needed or periodically with a long duration between actual implementations. As a result the network or parts of the network will typically be non optimized for relatively long periods of time. Thus the network resource usage is typically not maximized and the unused available network resources can result in significant revenue loss. Additionally the quality of service is typically degraded which affects the end users overall satisfaction.

Accordingly a need exists for methods and apparatus for implementing a SON manager that can automatically coordinate the work between different SON products or processes to improve or maximize the overall network performance for the wireless networks.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a management module implemented in at least one of a memory or a processing device. The management module is configured to receive a signal associated with a value of a performance indicator that a first process module is configured to optimize using a metric. The management module is configured to optimize a value associated with the metric based at least in part on the value of the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize and a value of a performance indicator that a second process module is configured to optimize using the metric. The management module is configured to send a signal to the first process module such that the first process module modifies a value of the metric based on the value associated with the metric.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a management module implemented in a memory or a processing device. The management module is configured to receive a signal associated with a value of a performance indicator that a first process module is configured to optimize using a first metric. The management module is configured to optimize a first value associated with the first metric based on the value of the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize and a first value of a performance indicator that a second process module is configured to optimize using the first metric. In some embodiments the management module can be configured to optimize the first value associated with the first metric based on the value of the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize the first value of the performance indicator that the second process module is configured to optimize using the first metric and a value of a second metric used to optimize the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize. Furthermore the management module is configured to send a signal to the first process module such that the first process module modifies a value of the first metric based on the first value associated with the first metric.

In some instances the first value associated with the first metric can be a value to which to change the value of the first metric. The first metric or the second metric can be for example associated with a tilt of an antenna or can be a number of cycles associated with the first process module. For other examples the first process module or the second process module can be an antenna based SON process module a parameter based SON process module a load balancing SON process module or an interference reduction SON module.

As used herein a module can be for example any assembly and or set of operatively coupled electrical components and can include for example a memory a processor electrical traces optical connectors software executing in hardware and or the like. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example the term a network optimization apparatus is intended to mean a single physical device or a combination of physical devices.

Specifically the wireless network can be any network that enables wireless communication devices e.g. cellular phones Wi Fi enabled laptops Bluetooth devices mobile devices etc. to communicate with each other. In some embodiments the wireless network can be implemented and administered using a wireless transmission system such as radio frequency RF waves. For example the wireless network can be a cellular network that enables two cellular phones to communicate with each other. For another example the wireless network can be a Wi Fi network that enables multiple Wi Fi enabled laptops to be operatively connected. In some embodiments the wireless network can be at least a portion of for example a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless mesh network a wireless metropolitan area network MAN a wireless wide area network WAN a mobile device network e.g. a global system for mobile communications GSM network a personal communications service PCS network a radio access network RAN a long term evolution LTE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or the like.

As shown in the wireless network includes a network optimization apparatus operatively coupled to a network database . The network optimization apparatus is also operatively coupled to and configured to manage one or more controllers e.g. controllers and . Each controller e.g. the controller is operatively coupled to and configured to manage one or more base stations e.g. base stations and . A controller can be any device that is capable of sending control signals e.g. commands instructions requests etc. to the base station s controlled by that controller thus managing operations of the base station s . In some embodiments a controller can be for example a server or similar computer device.

A base station can be any device or infrastructure that can be wirelessly coupled to and communicate with one or more wireless communication devices e.g. subscribers to the wireless network . Specifically each base station can be equipped with and configured to control one or more antennas e.g. the antennas and which can be used to support data communications e.g. transmit data to and or receive data from between the base station and the wireless communication devices that are distributed throughout a coverage area i.e. sector associated with that antenna. For example the antenna is used to support data communications between the base station and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area the antenna is used to support data communications between a base station where the antenna is located and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area . In some embodiments a base station can be for example a cell site. In such embodiments the coverage area associated with an antenna of that base station can be referred to as a cell.

In some embodiments the connections between the network optimization apparatus and the one or more controllers e.g. the controllers and and the network database can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections. Similarly the connections between each controller e.g. the controller and its associated base station s e.g. the base stations and can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections.

The network database can be implemented in a memory or other storage device that is part of the network optimization apparatus or another device operatively coupled to the network optimization apparatus . The network database can be configured to receive and store information and or data associated with the wireless network such as network statistics and current network configurations of the wireless network . Furthermore the network database can be configured to provide the stored information and or data to the network optimization apparatus . The information and or data can be used at the network optimization apparatus to assist in monitoring and optimizing SON processes operated in the wireless network as described in details with respect to . While shown in as being located on a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network database can be distributed to multiple devices e.g. multiple databases across the wireless network .

The network statistics and configurations provided from the network database to the network optimization apparatus can include a set of values and or indicators that can be used to determine the performance of the wireless network in various aspects. The set of values and or indicators can include for example Key Performance Indicators KPIs mobile level measurements cell level measurements system level measurements network metrics configuration metrics e.g. system configuration metrics device configuration metrics power indicators indications of a network alarm and or the like.

In some embodiments the KPIs provided from the network database to the network optimization apparatus can include for example a dropped call rate i.e. the ratio between failed calls and a total number of calls requested a transmitted radio power traffic statistical values associated with a cell total average transmitted power e.g. in dBm uplink total noise e.g. in dBm downlink uplink load factor e.g. in percentage uplink interference noise rise e.g. in dB number of downlink uplink radio links used connection success rate e.g. in percentage average number of attempted users average number of connected users average number of used codes ratio of handoff e.g. in percentage connection success downlink uplink throughput e.g. in kbps etc. In some embodiments the KPIs can include cell level KPIs e.g. statistics associated with handover and neighbor list as listed above user equipment level KPIs e.g. a signal strength indicator for a wireless communication device as well as system level KPIs e.g. number of connected users across the network .

In some embodiments the set of values and or indicators can include a network statistic representing the capacity of the wireless network . In some embodiments such a capacity can be measured for example by a total number of calls an amount of delivered data in bits and or a throughput e.g. overall data rate in case of data calls.

In some embodiments the set of values and or indicators can include a number of handovers of end user equipments i.e. wireless communication devices that are transitioning between different serving sectors i.e. coverage areas . Specifically each active user equipment is associated with one or more serving sectors. As the user equipment moves between the coverage areas of different antennas the serving sectors associated with the user equipment can potentially change due to for example a new serving sector having a better signal quality than an existing serving sector associated with the user equipment. Particularly in a soft handover the user equipment can be associated with more than one serving sector at the same time because the signal quality of the different serving sectors is similar. In some embodiments the number of handovers between different serving sectors can be used as an indicator of how close those serving sectors are to each other and or an indicator of the dependency between those different serving sectors.

In some embodiments the set of values and or indicators can include a neighbor list which includes a list of potential neighbors i.e. neighbor serving sectors for a user equipment i.e. wireless communication device in a given serving sector and or neighbor priorities of those potential neighbors. A potential neighbor for a user equipment can be a neighbor serving sector that can potentially provide services to that user equipment as part of a handover operation when the user equipment is traveling between different coverage areas. Each potential neighbor for a user equipment can be associated with a neighbor priority that indicates the priority or likelihood of the corresponding neighbor serving sector being selected to provide services to the user equipment. In some embodiments such a neighbor priority can be determined based on for example a measurement e.g. signal strength distance to a base station associated with the quality of the services that can be potentially provided to the user equipment if the corresponding neighbor serving sector is selected. In some embodiments multiple neighbor lists of the serving sectors that are currently serving the user equipment can be combined to define a single neighbor list to be sent to the user equipment. In such embodiments the user equipment can use this combined list to search for additional potential neighbors for handover operations.

The network optimization apparatus can be any device configured to control and or coordinate SON processes operated in the wireless network by executing for example a SON manager. For example in a highly congested network that is to be optimized in multiple aspects e.g. load balancing co channel interference neighbor list handovers self healing etc. multiple SON processes and or other optimization processes can be operated across the wireless network at the same time. Many dependencies exist between different SON processes. Dependencies can also exist between metrics that are used in the different SON processes and between configurations of network devices that operate the SON processes. In such embodiments a SON manager can be executed e.g. at a network optimization apparatus to manage the simultaneous SON processes as described in further details with respect to . Additionally a metric can be any configurable value associated with a network device e.g. a base station that executes a SON process. A metric can be for example antenna tilt a number of cycles for a SON process a parameter in a modulation scheme and or any other modifiable parameter used to optimize the network.

In some embodiments the network optimization apparatus can be for example a computer device a server device an application server a mobile device a workstation and or the like. As shown in the network optimization apparatus can be directly or operatively coupled to the remaining devices within the wireless network . Specifically the network optimization apparatus can be operatively coupled to the base stations e.g. the base stations and via one or multiple intermediate modules and or devices such as for example a controller e.g. the controllers and and or the like. In some embodiments the network optimization apparatus can be coupled to the remaining devices of the wireless network via any suitable connecting mechanism such as for example optical connections e.g. optical cables and optical connectors electrical connections e.g. electrical cables and electrical connectors wireless connections e.g. wireless transceivers and antennas and or the like. Furthermore while shown in as a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network optimization apparatus can be distributed to multiple devices across the wireless network .

In some embodiments the SON manager for managing the SON processes operated in the wireless network can be executed at a processor of the network optimization apparatus . is a block diagram of such a processor of the network optimization apparatus . As shown in the processor includes a SON manager module and separate SON process modules . Although not shown in in some embodiments the processor can include other modules and or components associated with managing SON processes such as for example a monitor module a detector module and or the like. In some embodiments the network optimization apparatus can be a single physical device. In other embodiments the network optimization apparatus can include multiple physical devices each of which can include one or multiple modules shown in and or other components not shown in of the processor .

Each module in the processor can be any combination of hardware based module e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP and or software based module e.g. a module of computer code stored in memory and or executed at the processor capable of performing one or more specific functions associated with that module. The processor can be any suitable processor configured to run and or execute those modules.

Each of the SON process modules in the processor e.g. the SON process modules and can be configured to execute one or more SON processes in the wireless network . In some embodiments each SON process module in the processor can be configured to execute for example an antenna based SON process a parameter based SON process and or the like. In some embodiments the combination of the SON process modules and can be for example a combination of a load balancing SON process module and an interference reduction SON process module a combination of a load balancing SON process module and a neighbor list SON process module a combination of a load balancing SON process module and a handover SON process module a combination of a self healing SON process module and an interference reduction SON process module or any suitable combination of SON process modules. Furthermore as shown in the SON manager module can act as a manager and or intermediary between the SON process modules e.g. the SON process modules and in the processor . As a result the SON manager module can be configured to manage the SON process modules such that the SON manager module can control and coordinate the operations of the corresponding SON processes executed by those SON process modules.

Specifically the SON manager module can be configured to schedule different SON process modules by taking various actions. For example the SON manager module can be configured to start e.g. initiate and or stop different SON processes. That is the SON manager module can decide or accept the starting of a SON process and decide when to stop a SON process. For another example the SON manager module can be configured to pause and or resume different SON processes. In some embodiments the SON manager module can pause a SON process until certain conditions are met and after the conditions are met the SON manager module can resume that SON process. Additionally the SON manager module can be configured to choose to execute multiple SON processes in serial or parallel prioritize different SON processes determine a running time for a SON process and or the like.

In some embodiments the SON manager module can be configured to transfer data and or control signals e.g. KPIs messages commands etc. between different SON process modules. In some embodiments the SON manager module can be configured to apply rules and or policies to make modifications on the SON process modules thus to control the corresponding SON processes.

In some embodiments the SON manager module can be configured to coordinate with different SON processes to harmonize modifications which are generated during those SON processes on network devices e.g. base stations operating the SON processes. Signals representing the harmonized modifications are then sent to the associated base stations for implementation. As such the SON manager module can be configured to check if any potential conflict exists between the modifications from the different SON processes before sending the signals to the associated base stations. If any potential conflict is determined the SON manager module can be configured to for example accept one of the modifications and suppress the others send signals representing the potential conflict to the SON processes that are involved in the conflict and instruct the SON processes to recalculate their modification inputs send signals representing the modification inputs of the other parties e.g. the other SON processes to the SON processes that are involved in the potential conflict and receive responses from the SON processes about the acceptability of the modification inputs of the other parties and or act as a communication link between the SON processes to enable the SON processes to send signals between each other.

While shown in as being included in the processor of the network optimization apparatus in other embodiments a SON manager module can communicate with the wireless network via an application programming interface API of a network module and or application a network process an intermediary device and or any other suitable means. Additionally the SON manager module can receive network information e.g. KPIs from the network database in any suitable format such as for example text files a file format associated with a network and or the like.

Returning to the SON manager module executed at the network optimization apparatus can be configured to manage e.g. schedule coordinate multiple SON processes operated in the wireless network . Specifically the SON manager module can be configured to collect or receive values of performance indicators e.g. KPIs and or other information associated with the wireless network e.g. power indications link connection information configuration metric values network metric values etc. from the network database . Based on the collected or received values of the performance indicators and or information the SON manager module can be configured to optimize metric values e.g. parameter values that are used to control and configure SON processes. The metric values that can be modified by the SON manager module include for example frequency band number of carriers for a serving sector service for each carrier antenna gain mechanical downtilt electrical downtilt power metric values associated with carriers e.g. in dBm etc.

The SON manager module can then be configured to send each optimized value of the metrics to each corresponding SON process module e.g. the SON process module in executed at the network optimization apparatus . As a result the SON process modules can be configured to implement the optimized values of the metrics thus to modify the corresponding SON processes accordingly. In some embodiments for example the SON process modules can send signals to the base stations e.g. the base stations and via controllers e.g. the controller and such that configuration modifications e.g. on antenna tilts can be applied at the base stations e.g. antenna tilts based on the optimized metric values determined at the SON manager module . Although as described herein the SON manager module is configured to optimize metric values the resulted metric values may not always be optimal but could be improved. In other words the optimization process executed at the SON manager module need not be perfect with respect to optimizing metric values for SON processes.

As a centralized controller over the multiple SON processes operating in the wireless network the SON manager module can be configured to manage the multiple SON processes in a cooperative manner such that conflicts between the multiple SON processes can be avoided minimized or reduced. In some embodiments for example the SON manager module can be configured to manage two SON processes e.g. a load balancing SON process and an interference reduction SON process operating in the wireless network each of which can potentially modify a common metric e.g. an antenna tilt . The SON manager module can control the modifications on the common metric from the two SON processes such that a modification on the common metric from one of the two SON processes is not contradictory or does not negatively affect a modification on the common metric from the other of the two SON processes. For example if the SON manager module instructs one SON process to increase the metric value from an original value to a new value the SON manager module will not instruct the other SON process to decrease the metric value from the new value back to the original value. In such a manner the SON manager module can eliminate a ping pong effect between the two SON processes attempting to modify a common metric. Thus the centralized control pattern implemented at the SON manager module can avoid minimize or reduce contradictive operations by SON processes.

In some embodiments a SON manager can be configured to simultaneously manage various types of SON processes including antenna based SON processes and parameter based SON processes to optimize values of various dependent metrics for solving one problem or achieving an optimization objective. Herein parameter based SON processes are referred to as parameter based SON processes that are not associated with antennas that is metrics modified by parameter based SON processes are non antenna metrics. is a schematic diagram that illustrates a SON manager configured to manage antenna based SON processes and parameter based SON processes according to an embodiment. The SON manager can be structurally and functionally similar to the SON manager module shown and described with respect to . Particularly the SON manager can be executed to manage SON processes for a wireless network similar to the wireless network in .

As shown in the SON manager can manage in parallel the antenna based SON processes and the parameter based SON processes for achieving an optimization objective. That is both SON processes can be executed at the same time and the SON manager can monitor the effect of each SON process on the wireless network with respect to the optimization objective. Furthermore the SON manager can be configured to control e.g. initiate terminate start stop pause resume etc. each of the SON processes based on the result of monitoring the wireless network as well as the output of the SON processes.

In some instances the actions of the SON manager can depend on which SON processes are currently running as well as the relations and or dependencies between the different SON processes. For example if two SON processes operating in a wireless network e.g. the wireless network in are intended or designed to handle one problem or multiple closely related problems the SON manager can be configured to manage the two SON processes in the following method 1 first the SON manager can execute the first SON process 2 the second SON process can be paused until the first SON process finishes one or more closed cycles without causing performance degradation to the wireless network 3 after the closed cycles are finished the first SON process can be paused and the second SON process can be executed for one or more closed cycles 4 if the problem s is resolved at any time the SON manager can terminate the first SON process and the second SON process 5 if the SON manager detects that one of the two SON processes degrades or does not enhance the performance of the wireless network the SON manager can stop or pause that SON process and continue executing the other SON process and 6 the SON manager can decide to restart or resume the stopped or paused SON process later if the SON manager detects that room exists for performance enhancement of the wireless network. In this example the definition of a cycle can be as granular as a change of one metric with enough time to monitor the effect of the change. A cycle can also be large enough to include changes of multiple metrics and or multiple changes of one metric. In addition to the method described above the SON manager can choose which SON process is to be executed on which network device e.g. a network optimization apparatus a controller a base station etc. and when to execute that SON process.

At the SON manager can be configured to execute the antenna based SON process to modify antenna metric values to resolve the problem e.g. load balancing . The antenna metric values can be associated with for example the antenna tilts. After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the antenna based SON process e.g. modify each antenna metric value to a new value are completed at the SON manager can check whether the problem has been resolved or not. If the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can terminate the optimization process. Otherwise if the problem has not been resolved at the SON manager can pause the antenna based SON process and execute the parameter based SON process e.g. a handover HO parameter based load balancing SON process to modify other metric values that are not associated with the antenna. After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the parameter based SON process e.g. modify each of the other metric values to a new value are completed at the SON manager can check whether the problem has been resolved or not. If the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can terminate the optimization process. Otherwise if the problem has not been resolved the SON manger can iterate the optimization process by repeating the steps as illustrated in .

In the optimization process illustrated in and described above in some embodiments each cycle in a step e.g. the step or can contain one or more optimization cycles e.g. iterations for executing the SON processes. Additionally after each modification on antenna metric values or other metric values during the optimization process the SON manager can check whether the modification has degraded the performance of the wireless network or not. If any modification has degraded the performance of the wireless network such modification can be reversed and or the corresponding SON process the antenna based SON process or the parameter based SON process that caused the modification can be terminated and will not be reused.

At the SON manager can execute the antenna based load balancing SON process to optimize load balancing by modifying antenna metric values e.g. antenna tilts . After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the antenna based load balancing SON process are completed at the SON manager can check whether the problem i.e. optimization of load balancing has been resolved or not. If the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can terminate the optimization process. Otherwise if the problem has not been resolved at the SON manager can check whether a tilt constraint associated with the antenna has been reached or not. If the tilt constraint has not been reached the SON manager can continue executing the antenna based load balancing SON process by repeating the steps . Otherwise if the tilt constraint has been reached at the SON manager can stop the antenna based load balancing SON process and execute the handover based load balancing SON process to optimize load balancing by modifying handover metric values until the optimization of load balancing is completed.

Similar to the example illustrated in is a flow chart illustrating a method for managing an antenna based SON process and a parameter based SON process to optimize self healing according to an embodiment. Specifically a SON manager similar to the SON manager module in or the SON manager in can coordinate optimization of antenna metric values e.g. antenna tilts and other metric values e.g. metric values associated with modulation and or coding schemes by managing an antenna based SON process e.g. an antenna based self healing SON process and a parameter based SON process e.g. a parameter based SON process for adjusting modulation and or coding schemes operated in a wireless network. As a result a self healing process can be completed for the wireless network to recover from an outage.

At the SON manager can execute the antenna based self healing SON process to achieve self healing by modifying antenna metric values e.g. antenna tilts . After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the antenna based self healing SON process are completed at the SON manager can check whether the problem has been resolved i.e. the outage has been recovered or not. If the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can check whether the outage has been recovered and if the outage has been recovered corresponding metrics of the wireless network e.g. antenna tilts metric values associated with modulation and or coding schemes can be reset at . Otherwise if the problem has not been resolved at the SON manager can check whether a tilt constraint associated with the antenna has been reached or not. If the tilt constraint has not been reached the SON manager can continue executing the antenna based self healing SON process by repeating the steps . Otherwise if the tilt constraint has been reached at the SON manager can stop the antenna based self healing SON process and execute the parameter based SON process for adjusting modulation and or coding schemes. Specifically the SON manager can be configured to execute the parameter based SON process to achieve self healing by modifying metric values associated with modulation and or coding schemes. When the parameter based SON process is executed at the SON manger can regularly check whether the outage has been recovered and if the outage has been recovered the self healing process is completed and corresponding metrics of the wireless network can be reset at .

In the examples of the tilt based mechanism e.g. the antenna based load balancing SON process the antenna based self healing SON process is desirable over the parameter based mechanism e.g. the handover based load balancing SON process the SON process for adjusting modulation and or coding schemes because the tilt based mechanism can achieve coverage and capacity optimization by directly modifying the coverage boundaries while the parameter based mechanism for the same optimization objective e.g. load balancing self healing virtually modifies coverage boundaries and may cause qualify of service QoS issues. On the other hand the tilt based mechanism may be limited due to uptilt restrictions or lack of cell breathing. Thus the parameter based optimization e.g. the handover based load balancing optimization the modulation and or coding schemes based self healing and the tilt based optimization e.g. the tilt based load balancing optimization the tilt based self healing can be combined as illustrated in . Additionally other considerations e.g. complexity of modifying a metric value potential negative impact on other network devices may be used to set up the SON manger policies regarding coordination between the tilt based SON process and the parameter based SON process.

In some embodiments a SON manager can be configured to coordinate multiple SON processes with different optimization objectives e.g. load balancing self healing interference reduction neighbor relations etc. where the multiple SON processes are associated with a common set of metrics e.g. antenna tilts non antenna metrics . Execution of those multiple SON processes can depend on the set of metrics e.g. use part or all of the metrics as an input to the execution and or affect the set of metrics e.g. modify part or all of the metrics as a result of the execution . Thus the SON manager coordinate the execution of the multiple SON processes such that execution of one SON process will not adversely affect execution of another SON process.

For example three SON processes operated in a wireless network with different optimization objectives as load balancing self healing or interference reduction can all use antenna tilts as a metric to adjust the antennas to meet their corresponding optimization objectives. Because tilt changes made to meet one of the three optimization objectives may be contrary to the other optimization objectives the three SON processes can be coordinated by the SON manager. In addition tilt changes made to meet these collective optimization objectives may negatively affect cell neighbor relations which in turn can negatively affect for example the handover performance of the wireless network. Hence the SON manager also can coordinate the optimization objectives with an Automatic Neighbor Relations ANR update.

At the SON manager can be configured to execute the antenna based load balancing SON process to optimize load balancing by modifying antenna metric values e.g. antenna tilts . After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the antenna based load balancing SON process are completed at the SON manager can be configured to execute the ANR SON process to adjust any neighbor relation that is affected by the changes e.g. tilt changes made in the previous step . After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the ANR SON process are completed at the SON manager can check whether the problem i.e. optimization of load balancing and or neighbor relations has been resolved or not. If the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can stop the ANR SON process. Otherwise if the problem has not been resolved the SON manager can continue executing the antenna based load balancing SON process and the ANR SON process by repeating the steps as illustrated in .

Similar to the example of is a flow chart illustrating a method for coordinating antenna based SON processes for jointly optimizing load balancing and interference reduction according to an embodiment. Specifically a SON manager similar to the SON manager module in or the SON manager in can coordinate an antenna based load balancing SON process and an interference reduction SON process which are operated in a wireless network to jointly optimize the optimization objectives of load balancing and interference reduction for the wireless network.

At the SON manager can be configured to execute the antenna based load balancing SON process to optimize load balancing by modifying antenna metric values e.g. antenna tilts . After one or a predetermined number of cycles of executing the antenna based load balancing SON process are completed at the SON manager can check whether the problem i.e. load balancing has been resolved or not. If the problem has not been resolved the SON manager can continue executing the antenna based load balancing SON process by repeating the step as illustrated in . Otherwise if the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can conduct an interference check to determine whether the resulted interference level is below a predetermined threshold on interference or not. If the resulted interference level is below the predetermined threshold at the SON manager can stop the optimization process. Otherwise if the resulted interference level is above the predetermined threshold at the SON manager can be configured to execute the interference reduction SON process to reduce the interference level for the wireless network. As illustrated in the SON manager can continue executing the interference reduction SON process i.e. repeat the step until the resulted interference level is below the predetermine threshold.

In some embodiments the SON processes operated in the example of or the example of can be interchanged or arranged in any suitable manner. For example in instead of being executed at the end of a predetermined number of cycles or iterations of the antenna based load balancing SON process the interference check and the resulted interference reduction SON process if necessary can be executed after each cycle or iteration of the antenna based load balancing SON process. For another example in the ANR SON process can be executed at every iterative step of the antenna based load balancing SON process or after the antenna based load balancing SON process is completed. Additionally other considerations e.g. traffic load and resource availability at the network devices operating the SON processes may be used to set up the SON manager policies regarding coordination between multiple SON processes to achieve interoperability of different optimization objectives.

In some embodiments a SON manager can be configured to manage which elements e.g. metrics each SON process should handle. As an example is a flow chart illustrating a method for managing an antenna based SON process and a parameter based SON process in a heterogeneous network according to an embodiment. In such a heterogeneous network both Remote Electrical Tilt RET antennas and Fixed Electrical Tilt FET antennas are installed. At a SON manager in a wireless network can identify RET antennas and FET antennas installed within that wireless network. At the SON manager can execute an antenna based load balancing SON process on the RET antennas to optimize load balancing by modifying antenna tilts of the RET antennas. After the antenna based load balancing SON process is completed on the RET antennas at the SON manager can check whether the problem i.e. optimization of load balancing has been resolved or not. If the problem has been resolved at the SON manager can terminate the optimization process. Otherwise if the problem has not been resolved in other words if additional optimization is needed or preferred at the SON manager can execute a handover based load balancing SON process on the FET antennas to further optimize load balancing by modifying metric values i.e. non tilt metric values of the FET antennas.

In some embodiments a SON manager can be configured to manage multiple SON processes with different granularities. As an example are logical representations of a series of operations by a SON manager with different granularities according to an embodiment.

In a SON manager can manage a load balancing SON process e.g. an antenna based load balancing SON process and a neighbor list SON process which are operated in a wireless network e.g. the wireless network in with a relatively lower granularity. Specifically the SON manager can be configured to execute the load balancing SON process e.g. during the period in based on for example one or more KPIs received from other devices of the wireless network e.g. during a previous observation period not shown in and or one or more metric values stored in a network database e.g. the network database in of the wireless network. Furthermore the SON manager can instruct the load balancing SON process to continue execution during the period until it is completed. After the load balancing SON process is completed and any modified metric value is stored e.g. in the network database the SON manager can observe the effects of the load balancing SON process on the wireless network in an observation period . For example the SON manager can receive KPIs from other devices of the wireless network during the observation period . After the observation period the SON manager can execute the neighbor list SON process during a period . Particularly the SON manager can be configured to execute the neighbor list SON process based on for example one or more KPIs received from other devices of the wireless network and or one or more metric values stored in the network database during the observation period and the period . As a result one or more KPIs and or metric values used by the neighbor list SON process executed during the period can be updated or modified by the load balancing SON process executed during the period .

In a SON manager can manage a load balancing SON process e.g. an antenna based load balancing SON process and a neighbor list SON process which are operated in a wireless network e.g. the wireless network in with a relatively higher granularity. Different from the process shown and described above with respect to the load balancing SON process and the neighbor list SON process can each be split into multiple e.g. two as shown in or more than two phases. After each phase of the load balancing SON process a phase of the neighbor list SON process can be executed.

Specifically during a period the SON manager can execute a first phase of the load balancing SON process based on for example one or more KPIs received from other devices of the wireless network e.g. during a previous observation period not shown in and or one or more metric values stored in a network database e.g. the network database in of the wireless network. After the first phase of the load balancing SON process is completed and any modified metric value is stored e.g. in the network database the SON manager can observe the effects of the first phase of the load balancing SON process on the wireless network in a first observation period . For example the SON manager can receive KPIs from other devices of the wireless network during the observation period . After the first observation period the SON manager can be configured to execute a first phase of the neighbor list SON process during a period . Particularly the SON manager can be configured to execute the first phase of the neighbor list SON process based on for example one or more KPIs received from other devices of the wireless network and or one or more metric values stored in the network database during the first observation period and the period . As a result one or more KPIs and or metric values used by the first phase of the neighbor list SON process executed during the period can be updated or modified by the first phase of the load balancing SON process executed during the period .

After the first phase of the neighbor list SON process is completed and any modified metric value is stored the SON manager can be configured to observe the effects of the first phase of the neighbor list SON process on the wireless network in a second observation period . After the second observation period the SON manager can execute a second phase of the load balancing SON process during a period . Particularly the SON manager can execute the second phase of the load balancing SON process based on for example one or more KPIs received from other devices of the wireless network and or one or more metric values stored in the network database during the second observation period and the period . As a result one or more KPIs and or metric values used by the second phase of the load balancing SON process executed during the period can be updated or modified by the first phase of the neighbor list SON process executed during the period . Similarly a third observation period and a second phase of the neighbor list SON process during a period can be sequentially executed. In such an iterative manner the SON manager can manage different interleaved SON processes to incrementally optimize the wireless network in terms of multiple optimization objectives.

Compared to the method with the relatively lower granularity illustrated in the method with the relatively higher granularity illustrated in can typically take a longer time to reach the final solution because the method includes more iterations. On the other hand the method with the relatively higher granularity can typically provide a more optimal solution than that with the relatively lower granularity. Additionally although shown in as the load balancing SON process and the neighbor list SON process being split into two phases in other embodiments a SON process can be split into more than two or any number of phases. Furthermore a SON process split into more phases generally can typically result in a more optimal solution.

At the SON manager can be configured to receive a signal associated with a value of a performance indicator that a first process module is configured to optimize using a first metric. In some embodiments the first process module can be for example a load balancing SON process module a self healing SON process module an interference reduction SON process module an ANL SON process module and or the like. In some embodiments the performance indicator can be for example a KPI.

In some embodiments the first process module can be an antenna based SON process module. In such embodiments the first metric can be a metric associated with an antenna such as a tilt of an antenna. In other embodiments the first process module can be a parameter based i.e. non antenna SON process module. In such embodiments the first metric can be a non antenna metric such as a number of cycles associated with the first process module.

At the SON manager can be configured to optimize a value associated with the first metric based on the value of the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize a value of a performance indicator that a second process module is configured to optimize using the first metric and or a value of a second metric used to optimize the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize. Similar to the first process module the second process module can be an antenna based SON process module or a parameter based SON process module. The second process module can be for example a load balancing SON process module a self healing SON process module an interference reduction SON process module an ANL SON process module and or the like. In some embodiments the value associated with the first metric can be a value to which to change the value of the first metric.

At the SON manager can send a signal to the first process module including the value associated with the first metric such that the first process module modifies a value of the first metric based on the value associated with the first metric. In some embodiments the signal can include the value of the second metric.

Furthermore in some embodiments the SON manager can receive a signal associated with a second value of the performance indicator that the second process module is configured to optimize. In response to the signal the SON manager can optimize a second value associated with the first metric based on the value of the performance indicator that the first process module is configured to optimize and the second value of the performance indicator that the second process module is configured to optimize. The SON manager can further send a signal to the second process module such that the second process module modifies the value of the first metric based on the second value associated with the first metric.

At the SON manager can be configured to receive a signal associated with a value of a performance indicator that a first process module is configured to optimize using a first metric and a second process module is configured to optimize using a second metric. The first process module and the second process module can be an antenna based SON process module and or a parameter based SON process module. In some embodiments the first process module and the second process module can be for example a load balancing SON process module a self healing SON process module an interference reduction SON process module an ANL SON process module and or the like.

At the SON manager can be configured to optimize a value associated with the first metric and a value associated with the second metric based on the value of the performance indicator. In some embodiments the value associated with the first metric or the second metric can be a value to which to change the value of the first metric or the second metric.

At the SON manager can be configured to send a signal to the first process module such that the first process module modifies a value of the first metric based on the value associated with the first metric. Meanwhile in some embodiments the SON manager can be configured to send the value of the second metric to the first process module such that the first process module modifies the value of the first metric based on the value of the second metric as well.

At similar to the step the SON manager can send a signal to the second process module such that the second process module modifies a value of the second metric based on the value associated with the second metric. In some embodiments the SON manager can send the signals to the first process module and the second process module at substantially the same time. In other embodiments the SON manager can send the signals to the first process module and the second process module at different times.

In some embodiments the value of the performance indicator is a value of the performance indicator at a first time. The SON manager can send the signal to the first process module at a second time after the first time. The SON manager can then be configured to receive a signal associated with a second value of the performance indicator at a third time after the second time. As a result the SON manager can be configured to optimize the value associated with the second metric based on the value of the performance indicator at the first time and the value of the performance indicator at the third time.

While shown and described herein as the SON manager being implemented in a wireless network in other embodiments a SON manager can also be implemented in other types of networks such as a wired network or a hybrid wireless wired network. In such embodiments the SON manager does not necessarily manage antenna based SON processes or coordinate between antenna based SON processes and parameter based SON processes. Instead the SON manager may manage and coordinate between different types of parameter based SON processes in a similar method as described herein.

While shown and described herein as a SON process module being an antenna based SON process module or a parameter based SON process module in other embodiments a SON process module can be a combined antenna and parameter based SON process module. Such a combined SON process module can control a SON process where both antenna metric values e.g. antenna tilts and non antenna metric values e.g. parameters in a modulation scheme can be modified.

While shown and described with respect to as a SON manager of a SON network that stops executing one or more SON processes after a problem is resolved e.g. an outage is recovered load balancing is achieved in some embodiments the SON manager does not stop monitoring the SON network. When a new problem is detected the SON manager can be configured to automatically initiate one or more corresponding SON process es to handle the new problem. In other words the methods described with respect to can be automatically and or repeatedly or continuously performed in the SON network. Thus automatic and continuous self healing can be enabled for the SON network.

Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a non transitory computer readable medium also can be referred to as a non transitory processor readable medium having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The computer readable medium or processor readable medium is non transitory in the sense that it does not include transitory propagating signals per se e.g. a propagating electromagnetic wave carrying information on a transmission medium such as space or a cable . The media and computer code also can be referred to as code may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of non transitory computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic storage media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical storage media such as Compact Disc Digital Video Discs CD DVDs Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical storage media such as optical disks carrier wave signal processing modules and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Read Only Memory ROM and Random Access Memory RAM devices. Other embodiments described herein relate to a computer program product which can include for example the instructions and or computer code discussed herein.

Examples of computer code include but are not limited to micro code or micro instructions machine instructions such as produced by a compiler code used to produce a web service and files containing higher level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example embodiments may be implemented using Java C or other programming languages e.g. object oriented programming languages and development tools. Additional examples of computer code include but are not limited to control signals encrypted code and compressed code.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Where methods described above indicate certain events occurring in certain order the ordering of certain events may be modified. Additionally certain of the events may be performed concurrently in a parallel process when possible as well as performed sequentially as described above. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different embodiments described.

