---

title: Multi source and destination media discovery and management platform
abstract: A platform allows viewing and sorting digital media from multiple content sources across multiple devices by title, category, series, or other sorting desired. Available content from providers may be co-mixed to display as if from a single provider. Listings may be restricted to specific providers or sets of providers, such as removing providers with paid content which the user will not access. Alternatively, listings may be prioritized based on business rules programmed into the system. Listings may be limited to those available on the current device, on another set of devices, or on all devices. Control of access to content, including playback and queuing, may be done through the interface regardless of the consumption device. This allows access to all content across all devices in a fashion desirable to the user, merging providers and devices into a seamless interface tailored for the user instead of the content or device manufacturer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258609&OS=09258609&RS=09258609
owner: TiVo Inc.
number: 09258609
owner_city: Alviso
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120308
---
This utility patent application claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 450 472 filed Mar. 8 2011 titled MULTI SOURCE AND DESTINATION MEDIA DISCOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PLATFORM in the name of VICTOR ODRYNA GARY ROSE KEE HINCKLEY JEFFREY R. BACON RICHARD I. SMILEY BLAKE ULMER AND PRESTON C. SHIMER and from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 559 782 filed Nov. 15 2011 titled MULTI SOURCE AND DESTINATION MEDIA DISCOVERY AND MANAGEMENT PLATFORM in the name of VICTOR ODRYNA JEFFREY R. BACON KEE HINCKLEY and GARY ROSE.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. Copyright 2012 ZeeVee Inc.

This disclosure relates to the field of digital media and more specifically to listing and selecting digital media from multiple content providers and multiple content sources for multiple devices.

As the Internet has expanded and bandwidth to homes increased a demand for digital media and especially video content has grown. YouTube developed into a platform for sharing video. Traditional television networks began streaming content via the Internet. Video rental agencies such as Blockbuster began offering online access to content. With the expansion of video capabilities and bandwidth to mobile devices like smartphones demand for digital media continues to grow. Many solutions have developed driven mainly by each content provider producing ways to access its content and devices developing device specific interfaces to access content.

In addition to devices for accessing content there are also many devices for sending digital media to a television. Examples of such devices include AppleTV Boxee Box Logitech Revue Roku and TiVo Premiere. Yet each different device supports access to video from different sets of content providers. For example AppleTV supports video from Netflix iTunes and YouTube. Boxee Box supports video from YouTube ABC.com FOX.com NBC.com CBS.com MLB.com and soon will add support for Netflix. Logitech Revue supports video from Netflix Amazon Video on Demand VoD iTunes and YouTube. Roku supports video from Hulu Plus Netflix Amazon VoD iTunes and MLB.com. TiVo Premier supports video from Hulu Plus Netflix Amazon VoD and YouTube. Some televisions have built in support for access to video in a manner similar to these devices.

Other devices for accessing content such as Verizon FiOS DVRs may access specific and singular video sources such as Verizon FiOS OnDemand. Computer desktops or laptops may have full access to all video sources. Other computing devices including mobile devices such as mobile phones or iPads may have alternative support. The iPad for example has browser based access to the web but no Adobe Flash support. Video access is available from the iPad through iTunes for example but not through Amazon VoD.

This creates a dilemma for users who have many devices for accessing different subsets of video from different content providers. Further complicating matters the interfaces for accessing content are highly controlled by the content providers. Access to content is typically driven through hierarchical menus populated based on information feeds provided by the content providers. On a device that provides access to multiple content providers a user must first select a content provider rather than browsing by type of content. After selecting the content provider further categories are defined and controlled by the content provider. Thus a show available from multiple content providers may be categorized differently such as under Family from one content provider Comedy from another content provider HD from a third content provider and F from a fourth content provider.

Typed searches may find the same show from all content providers yet still separate from each other. For example searching for Family Guy may produce separate results Family Guy through Netflix Family Guy through Amazon VoD and Family Guy through Hulu. Another device might instead return Family Guy through Fox.com. Additionally the search might not find all results due to inconsistencies between metadata kept by each provider. Although the same exact content may be available from multiple providers the metadata kept often differs between providers or is incomplete. For example 

Selecting a specific content provider from the results may reduce this problem of metadata consistency but limits the results to those available through that specific content provider. From the standpoint of a content provider such a design is desirable because it keeps users using only one content provider s content. Each content provider wants to keep users within the content provider s available content as it is access to such content that drives profits for each individual content provider. Device manufacturers need agreements with content providers in order to have access to content Application Programming Interfaces APIs and encryption specific to each content provider. Thus also from the standpoint of a device manufacturer such a design is desirable because it keeps content providers happy and willing to work with the device manufacturer. This is also the simplest solution for device manufacturers as device manufacturers can take content information directly from each content provider and display the content information without introducing further complexities.

In addition to sorting available content by content provider available content listings are inherently linked to the viewing device. For example a network connected TV or DVR lists content viewable on that device. As the focus of devices is accessibility within that device to drive future device sales the incentive is to display only content accessible and displayable on that device.

This creates an array of products which do not fully cross integrate. No solution provides a platform that 1 lists available media across different content providers 2 groups the media based on the end product information rather than source feed structure 3 lists media availability across all devices and 4 allows control and selection from one device of any available media to play back on any available device. Furthermore no ability exists for a content provider to program in business rules regarding the proffered choice of media for a user based on their own business desires.

A platform is disclosed which allows viewing and sorting digital media from multiple content sources including but not limited to Internet television personal content including on local computers video on demand VOD services and linear television for multiple devices by title category series name or other sorting as desired by a user. Content from multiple content providers may be co mixed to logically display to the user as if it were from a single content provider. Content listings may be reduced or tailored based on specific content providers or sets of content providers as desired by the user such as removing content providers with paid content which the user chooses not to access. Content listings may be limited to those available on the current device on another single or set of devices or on all devices. Control of access to content including playback and queuing may be done through the interface regardless of the desired consumption device. This allows users to access all available content across all available devices in a fashion desirable to the user merging content providers and devices into a seamless interface tailored to the individual user instead of to the content provide or device manufacturer.

In another embodiment listings are prioritized based on business rules that are programmed into the system potentially prioritizing one source of content over another. Media recommendations may also be provided to users based upon the same set of factors.

The terminology and definitions of the prior art are not necessarily consistent with the terminology and definitions of the current invention. Where there is a conflict the following definitions apply.

access provider entity providing video feed and or internet to a user or user household for example Comcast Cablevision or Verizon.

analog media Media including but not limited to audio video text and applications that is encoded stored and or transmitted in analog format.

business rules configuration settings that apply to available content listings and user interface appearance presented to users through a specific access provider

content metadata Details about a content including but not limited to creation date length duration rating and description.

content provider An individual or entity such as a broadcast or cable TV network that provides content. Content provider examples include ABC CBS NBC FOX YouTube NetFlix and iTunes.

content source From a user s perspective a way to get content or a thing such as a computer server or device that stores and or transmits content. content source examples include linear television video on demand VOD services Internet television DVD players DVRs local computers and remote computers.

Device A thing that is capable of outputting including but not limited to playing displaying and exporting digital media.

digital media Media including but not limited to audio video text and applications that is encoded stored and or transmitted in digital format.

linear television Television content available to a user at a specific time and on a particular channel or website. Linear television includes broadcast over the air television cable television scheduled pay per view PPV television and scheduled Internet television.

Radio Content Media including but not limited to audio text and applications intended to be consumed via a radio.

Streaming Media noun Media that is constantly delivered by a content provider while being received by a user. Examples of streaming media include broadcast television broadcast radio Internet television and Internet radio.

Television Content Media including but not limited to audio video text and applications intended to be consumed via a television.

Television Network or TV Network A telecommunications network for distribution of television content. Used also to refer to the named entities such as ABC CBS and NBC that run these telecommunications networks.

In the following detailed description of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be used and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Referring to platform server collects into a database available content information from disparate content sources and or content providers . Metadata regarding available content may be entered manually requested via API access to content providers or scraped through automated programs or spiders regularly crawling public listings from each content provider. Listings are typically exposed in HTML or XML formats which are easily accessed and parsed. Content providers can include any content provider which lists available content including free content providers such as YouTube and various television network websites subscription content providers such as Netflix Hulu Plus and Xfinity and pay per content PPC content providers such as Amazon and iTunes. Any new content provider may be integrated into the listings as the only requirement is that the available content be listed in an accessible manner. Users may select which content providers are visible to the user by default and thus may add or remove any content providers or content sources indexed by the platform server. In addition to content providers with stored content live content may be included. This includes any live web based content as well as live over the air or live over cable broadcasts. Such data may be accessed from online listings of linear programming such as live television guides. Additional metadata may be pulled from user devices. For example many DVRs and other devices have APIs allowing access to content listings. By networked access to such API or networked access to a computer connected to such DVR or other device the platform server may access linear programming metadata and other available content metadata such as video on demand listings which are not available through online websites. Platform server may store available content metadata preferably in a manner that can rapidly sort and search thousands of data points such as within a database. Platform server may categorize each content item for sorting through various listings title series content provider possible playback platforms geographical regions etc. Any information about the content or the content provider may be used to identify other means of identifying and sorting the content. Multiple entries for the same content such as multiple disparate sources providing metadata about the same episode may be identified as matches such that a single listing may be displayed for the matched content identifying all available sources. Multiple entries for related content such as different episodes within the same series may be cross correlated for ease of access to related content. Once platform server has built or collected data points for available content from content providers it can present this information to users in a manner most beneficial to the user.

Users consume content on devices . Devices may include traditional televisions Internet enabled televisions mobile devices e.g. phones smartphones iPods or Atrix hand held computers e.g. iPads or Xoom or traditional computer or laptop devices. Other devices will likely be developed which can serve as consumption points with the main need being ability to access video and a display capability. To operate with platform server the consumption device must be networked to or receive video from a device networked to platform server . Such network connection most commonly may be over the Internet.

Users may receive sort and select content listings through platform server . Once content is selected it may be streamed or delivered from content provider to display or consumption device .

Users may access platform server to view all available content. A user interface is preferably provided fully in HTML without reliance on plugin technology such as Flash or hardware specific programs in order to provide a cross device interface. Thus access may be through web browsers on computers Internet enabled televisions playback devices such as Internet connected DVR s playback devices or video game hardware platforms or mobile devices such as phones. No download or special software is needed beyond the web browser. An account may be set up to automatically configure some filtering of content. Although a main purpose is to merge and present content from all content providers if a user has no access to paid content seeing such content displayed may be undesirable. shows a sample interface where a user may configure an account to exclude selected paid content providers. Global settings may be configured for which content providers and type of content to display by default. Individual content providers may be enabled or disabled whether they are free or paid content providers. In addition some content providers have multiple types such as both free and paid multiple formats of content and multiple subscription packages all of which may be enabled or disabled for default display. In addition to enabling disabling specific listings the form of display may be adjusted. For example instead of disabling content to which the user lacks access such content may be displayed in a grayed out fashion to allow browsing the content while indicating it is not available to the user. In accessing content different presentation formats may be desired by different users. shows a sample entry interface allowing search along with links to browsing listing series of content content categorized as movies along with other features. shows a sample user interface for browsing content. Featured suggested or recommended content may be displayed along with categories for type of content as well as content from specific content providers. While a purpose is to merge content metadata from multiple content providers into a single content listings as users may desire content from a specific content provider such sorting is also available. Additional categories may be configured for browsing choice such as by device language or other criteria configurable by the user. shows a sample user interface listing available content categorized within series. Further selection can be made by browsing available listings sorting be various content headers filtering by name or further reducing by selecting content provider or viewing device. Restriction by content provider may be desirable to selectively move between paid or free content and selection of device may be desirable to limit displayed choices to those that will be able to be viewed. Such restrictions and selections may also be configured globally to apply as the default display. shows a sample user interface for a television series. In this case the series is listing seasons that are available and individual episodes within each season. Different episodes are available from different content providers some episodes being free some having a cost and some available from multiple content providers. Again further restriction is possible by content provider or device to further tailor display of available content. Selections within an individual episode include begin play save to a personal or device queue mark as a favorite or other actions desirable within a user s account.

Because the interface is designed for compatibility with all devices direct play options are available within the interface to start playback if playback is possible on the current device. Yet not all content is available on all devices. Some content playback requires supported playback plugins such as Flash. Other content playback requires supported video codecs or decoders which are not available on all devices. Other content playback may be limited to a specific playback device due to digital rights management restrictions. Thus users may want to limit the displayed content to content playable on the current device or to a set of devices. Such settings may be made globally for default behavior or individually adjusted during individual access sessions. Yet in many situations users may want to browse content available on a specific but different device. For example while watching content on one television browsing next content may be desired on an alternate device without interrupting or altering the current playback. Additionally remote browsing such as selecting content while away from home to be viewed after returning home may also need to select content playable on another device. For this reason it is desirable to display all available content a selected subset of all available content or allow limiting display to only content or a subset of content accessible from the current or another specific individual device. Again disabled content may be configured to be fully removed from presentation or to appear grayed out to indicate the difference with available accessible or selected content. Configuration for devices may be done within user account settings. Playback for a specific device may be automatically triggered from another device if the playback device is operating a program or has access set up to allow control from other devices. Such control could be wifi communication from a mobile phone which replaces need for a traditional television remote control. Alternatively queues may be configured such that the displaying device may access the next content in the queue and move to that content automatically or upon manual selection after the current content playback ends.

In addition to access to content from traditional and Internet content providers users may configure access to private or local content. For example this may include content stored on a DVR DVD or other playback device including video cameras or content stored on computers computing devices or networked devices such as cloud storage. Information about such content may be input by the user or included in descriptors already associated with the content. Information may be stored in the platform server or stored locally on users devices. Local storage of the local content information means that access to the local storage device may be needed to access the content information. Playback may be limited to the local device on which the local content is stored or available on multiple devices if streaming distribution of the local content is available from where it is stored. For example an unencoded video file stored on a computer may be playable on any accessing device able to connect to the computer and access the file. In contrast video stored on a local DVR might be limited to playback on television devices connected to that DVR.

To present content from multiple sources to users in a seamless unified fashion inconsistent metadata must also be correlated. Such correlation is done by software on the server with input and controls from system administrators with access to a server user interface. As data is acquired by the server be it through input API calls or scraping available web information the data is normalized automatically by server software to correct common abnormalities. For example roman numerals are converted to decimal notation punctuation is removed whitespace is added or deleted for consistency and common notations such as unrated are removed. Both the normalized and original data is stored in the database. After normalization a variation software process is run to create multiple variations that could be used to identify the same content such as phonetic pronunciation of the title to account for misspellings stemmed versions of the title to correct pluralization problems letter pattern variations to account for simple typos or other possible signatures if available. The multiple variations are similarly stored in the database allowing efficient generation of a list of possible matches for any item in the system.

Once a list is created of possible matches for an item each possibility Is analyzed using multiple metadata heuristic software to develop a certainty. For example a movie can be compared based on title release year air date description and rating. For each piece of metadata a certainty level is determined. A character for character match on a title is considered stronger or higher certainty level than just a phonetic match. Duration matches might be exact off by just a few minutes or off by a large margin. Release years that are only one year apart are considered stronger than those 10 years apart. Common words in the descriptions are considered valuable information based on overall language word commonality. Once certainty for each piece of metadata is assigned an overall level of certainty is generated for the match based on the certainty of the multiple pieces of metadata. If the title match is strong the release year match strong but the duration match weak it is likely an overall medium level certainty match. These heuristics are optimized based on hundreds of thousands of items of input data and data testing and standard statistical certainty optimization.

Once the certainty of a match is determined the system must choose how to handle the match. If a match is very weak then it can be safely discarded by the server software If a match is very strong then it can safely considered a perfect match by the server software and recorded as an exact match correlation in the database. In some cases however there simply isn t enough certainty one way or another. To deal with such situations human assisted automation may be used. For each instance of uncertainty the system will automatically create a task for server administrators. Referring also to . These tasks may be viewed and processed quickly using a web based server administrative user interface tool that presents all the data and asks simply Are these two the same and expects a simple Yes or No response. Minimally trained administrators can process these tasks a rate of about one task every 5 15 seconds or 240 720 tasks an hour. During days where the system only polls previously polled sources for changed content typically 0 50 new tasks are generated. Importing a new mega site for example integrating a brand new movie rental site with 100 000 movies for the very first time may generate a few thousand tasks but even then the processing only takes several hours of effort to correlate all content. Administrator performance may be tracked such as average time to make a decision and percent rate at which yes no decisions are later overturned. The result is fast efficient and accurate correlation.

In addition to tasks to identify content correlation server administrators may manually edit content metadata stored in the database. shows such manual editing. Controls available to administrators include Add a New Member create a collection Add Related Content Manually Over ride Join with Another Member exact match correlation Break Correlation Delete and View the User Version what the user sees . This allows administrator control to override software defaults alter what is displayed to users and correct any incorrect correlation information. It also allows administrators to create groupings or relationships to show topics of interest such as hot news topically relevant content. shows administrator controls to override correlation rules for specific shows or other groups of content. shows an administrator interface for configuration of priorities for sources of metadata. Priority determines which source is used for default metadata to present to users. A 0 priority indicates not to display metadata from that source even if the only source with any metadata for specific content.

In addition to content listings control of playback through the device unified interface may allow for synchronized playback of content on multiple devices. This could be desirable for remote instruction meetings with discussion or chatting about the currently playing content. Synchronizing playback allows all viewers to ensure they are at the same point in the content as other viewers. In addition to productive business or education purposes programs being currently viewed may be listed to be seen by the public or closed lists such as friends lists. This allows users to check what other users are viewing which may be useful in selecting content to consume.

In addition to restrictions based on subscriptions paid or free content device accessible formats and user selection of content provider channels further restrictions for sorting and displaying content may be configured. For example geographical information may be included with content. Some content is geographically restricted such as for access only within a specific country or region. Additionally geographical content may map directly to language of the content. As users and devices move location which content they can access may change. Integration with location aware information such as GPS information included with some mobile phones or computing devices may be transmitted from the device to allow accurate display of geographically restricted content. As with other selections users may configure the interface to display all content regardless of geographical restriction display only content accessible based on current region or a display a hybrid with inaccessible content listed but grayed out.

In another alternative embodiment the interface and or content listings may be tailored to a specific platform or access provider. For example all subscribers to a specific cable content provider may receive accounts tailored to that cable content provider. Content from the cable content provider may be highlighted or listed above other content when available. Additionally subscriptions through the cable content provider may be automatically mapped to each user s account. For example subscribing to HBO through a standard cable content provider may automatically update the user s account to allow access and display listings for online content from HBO. Accounts from users which have no subscriptions beyond their cable content provider may be completely tailored to match their cable subscriptions by default. Platforms and access providers may also use the system to sell online or web based subscriptions to premium content or automatically include it as a benefit of existing subscriptions.

Business rules may be configured which apply to all users accessing the interface through an access provider. For example the list of available content providers may be limited by a business rule such as display all content providers except Amazon and Netflix. As another example a business rule may be added to modify content search results to only show content listings from the access provider s content if there are any matches from the access provider or an access provider affiliate in the search results or to only show content listings from all other sources if there are no matches from the access provider in the search results. In addition to business rules the platform server may provide a custom feed of content listings and search results for use within an access provider s interface. Metadata containing multi provider listings and results may be delivered from the platform server to the access provider for display in any form by the access provider. For example a specific access provider may have content deals with specific sources and set priorities accordingly to display only metadata from the specific sources. Such business rules may be altered on a content or content group specific basis by administrators. Additionally the platform server may also deliver an interface to users with the interface styled to match the logo and colors or look and feel of the access provider. A standard HTML or compatible thin client interface may be provided for rendering on televisions and devices served by the access provider. For performance or ease of management a separate platform server may be configured and operated for each access provider. Platform server may be implemented as a cloud service and operated as multiple servers within a cloud platform allowing dynamic growth and expandability in relation to performance needs.

In another alternative embodiment the media accessed through the platform server is limited to video only content. In another alternate embodiment the media is limited to audio only content.

In addition using user queues to automatically play content users may select or create channels of content for auto play. For example news or weather clips available online may be played sequentially to create a news channel with one clip playing immediately after the prior clip. shows a user interface for searching and selecting clips to sequentially play.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

