---

title: Method and system for providing a shopping cart with feedback information generated by user social network connections
abstract: A system, computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program, and computer-implemented method for automatically providing item feedback information during the checkout process is provided. Feedback information related to one or more items added to an electronic shopping cart of a user is obtained. A message including the feedback information is provided automatically to the user during the checkout process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652796&OS=09652796&RS=09652796
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09652796
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
Example embodiments of the present application generally relate to networked shopping and more particularly in one embodiment to a system and method for automatically providing item feedback during a checkout process.

Currently a user can shop or navigate an e commerce website and add items to a personal electronic shopping cart. In some cases a user may be able to search for posts containing feedback reviews and advice associated with a product prior to adding it to an electronic shopping cart of the user. However review of such posts as a part of the shopping process is currently limited in scope and functionality.

Typically the feedback reviews and advice associated with the product are generated and posted by anonymous users that may or may not have actually purchased the item. In any event the identities of the users generating these posts are unknown to a user who may be examining the post. Thus a user may be hesitant to trust many of the available posts associated with a particular product. Additionally because of the vast quantity of reviews and advice available for each item a user may have difficulty locating a post that is of any help or relevance to the user. Moreover each of the anonymous reviewers may have varying tastes that may not be in line with expectations of the user.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that it is not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the described embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In addition well known features may not have been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the subject matter.

In accordance with the present disclosure components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems programming languages computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose or nature such as hardwired devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the concepts disclosed herein. Embodiments may also be tangibly embodied as a set of computer instructions stored on a computer readable medium such as a memory device.

Aspects of the present disclosure describe systems and methods for automatically providing feedback e.g. information advice recommendations and reviews related to an item to a user during the checkout process. The feedback related to an item may be generated by the user s friends colleagues social network connections or other current owners of the product. In some embodiments the feedback is provided to the user upon adding an item to an electronic shopping cart hosted by an online merchant.

Consistent with some embodiments a user may be provided an option to post a request for additional feedback related to the item to a social network service e.g. Facebook Twitter or Myspace . In some embodiments a user may also be provided with an option to join an interest group related to the item. Members of such interest groups may be provided coupons or alerts for specials and sales for items related to the purchased items e.g. accessories .

A data exchange platform in an example form of a network based marketplace may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more client devices. The one or more client devices may be operated by users that use the network system and more specifically the network based marketplace to exchange data over the network . These transactions may include transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to user data such as user preferences product and service feedback advice and reviews product service manufacture and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers product and service advertisements auction bids and transaction data among other things.

In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client device such as a client device using web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based marketplace via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with a client device using a programmatic client such as a client application or a third party system e.g. one or more servers or client devices hosting a third party application . It can be appreciated that in various embodiments the client device and or the third party system may be associated with a buyer a seller a third party electronic commerce platform a payment service provider or a shipping service provider each in communication with the network based marketplace and optionally each other. The buyers and sellers may be any one of individuals merchants or service providers among other things.

The client devices and may be any of a variety of types of devices e.g. a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a Personal Navigation Device PND a handheld computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a notebook computer a wearable computing device or other type of movable device . The client devices and may interface via a connection with a communication network e.g. the Internet or WAN . Depending on the form of the client device and any of a variety of types of connections and communication networks may be used.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

Turning specifically to the networked based marketplace an application programming interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more networking application s and marketplace application s . The application servers may be coupled via these interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s . In some examples the application servers can access the database s directly without the need for a database server .

The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services e.g. listing payments etc. to users that access the network based marketplace . The networking applications likewise may provide a number of social networking services and functions to users. The networking applications may automatically provide a user with a feedback for an item posted by a social network connection of the user. Consistent with some embodiments a social network connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection e.g. friends . Similarly a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. For purposes of the present disclosure the term connection shall include both the bi lateral agreement by both members and the unilateral operation of following .

The networking applications may also provide a user with an option to post a request for additional feedback from additional connections to a social network of the user during the checkout process. The networking applications may also provide a user with an option to join an interest group related to an item during the checkout process.

While the marketplace applications and networking applications are shown in to both form part of the network based marketplace it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the networking applications may form part of a social networking service that is separate and distinct from the marketplace .

Database server may facilitate access one or more databases and retrieve data for inclusion in the network based marketplace . The data may correspond to user data transaction history listings of products or related products offered for sale feedback for products and so forth. In some embodiments the databases may include databases both internal and external to the network based marketplace .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in an event driven distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various modules of the application servers may also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The network and marketplace applications and may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the networking and marketplace applications and respectively are shown to include one or more applications which support the network based marketplace and more specifically the acquisition and transmittal of feedback related to a particular item added to an electronic shopping cart. Additionally the various applications may support social networking functions including the creation of posts to request additional feedback related to the item and providing the option to join an interest group related to the item.

Store applications may allow sellers to group their item listings e.g. goods and or services within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller. In one embodiment the listings and or transactions associated with the virtual store and its features may be provided to one or more users.

Reputation applications may allow parties that transact utilizing the network based marketplace to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the network based marketplace supports person to person trading users may have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and or credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications may allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the network based marketplace over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility trustworthiness or the like. Other users may also reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing the credibility and trustworthiness of user created item reviews.

In some embodiments the network based marketplace includes feedback application . The feedback application may provide a user interface to facilitate entry of feedback related to items offered for sale in the network based marketplace . In some embodiments social networking applications may work in conjunction with the feedback applications to provide a user interface to facilitate the entry of feedback related to items offered for sale at an online marketplace hosted by a third party server e.g. third party server . In some embodiments the feedback applications may be communicatively coupled to a third party application via API to retrieve existing feedback related items offered for sale by the third party application.

In some embodiments feedback may be in the form of a text entry including general information a user s opinion an item review advice guidance or a recommendation related to a particular item. In some embodiments the feedback may be in the form of a standard feedback format including check boxes or star ratings indicating a level of satisfaction. A recommendation included in feedback may include a specific type of item a specific brand or service for a type of item a specific retailer for the item etc.

In some embodiments the feedback application may be operatively configured to obtain feedback information for a particular item from the database or third party server . In some embodiments the feedback application may retrieve feedback information for a particular item using an item identifier e.g. product number catalog number or other unique identifier provided by a shopping cart application . In some embodiments the feedback applications may work in conjunction with the social networking applications to identify social network connections of the user who may have generated feedback related to a particular item.

Navigation of the network based marketplace may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application may inter alia enable key word searches of listings published via the marketplace . A browser application may allow users via an associated user interface to browse various category catalogue inventory social network and review data structures within the marketplace . Various other navigation applications e.g. an external search engine may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

In one embodiment using rules applications and roles applications a user may specify a list of other users who may view feedback created by the user. For example a user may specify that only those users sharing a social network connection may view feedback created by the user. In another example a user may specify that feedback created by the user is publically accessible to all other users. In some embodiments using the rules applications and roles applications a user may limit the feedback automatically provided to themselves during the checkout process to a specified group of other users. For example a user may limit the feedback provided to the user during the checkout process to feedback that has been created by a social network connection of the user. In another example a user may limit the feedback provided to the user during the checkout process to feedback from users exceeding a pre defined reputation threshold as determined by the reputation applications . In yet another example a user may select to limit feedback information provided to the user during the checkout process to a list of the user s contacts maintained by an electronic address book.

In some embodiments the communication applications may be used for generation and delivery of messages to users of the network based marketplace . Respective communication applications may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example the communication applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

In some embodiments the communication applications may work in conjunction with the feedback application to obtain feedback information for a particular item from the database or third party server and automatically provide a message including the feedback information to a user who has added the item to an electronic shopping cart. The feedback may take the form of a prompt within the electronic shopping cart a banner or other type of display advertisement a pop up or pop under advertisement an interstitial advertisement a notification an email or a text message among other things.

In some embodiments the communication applications may be used in conjunction with the social networking applications to provide the user with an option to post a request for additional feedback related to an item from social network connections of the user. In some embodiments the post may be automatically generated and may include a pre filled message including information related to the item and may be customized by the user. In some embodiments the user may specify one or more social networks or one or more groups within a social network with which to share the post.

In some embodiments the social networking applications may facilitate the user joining an interest group related to the item hosted by one or more social networks. An interest group may provide a user with information about products as well as information related to specials and sales. In one embodiment the interest group may be associated with the item being purchased or a related item. In another embodiment the interest group may be associated with the manufacturer or distributor of the item. In one embodiment the communication applications may be used in conjunction with the social networking applications to provide promotional and or marketing to the user based on the user s membership in an interest group.

In some embodiments the social networking applications may be operatively configured to receive login credentials for one or more social network member profiles of a user. The social networking applications may using the login credentials obtain from the one or more social networks via API a list of social network connections of the user. The list of social network connections may be stored in the pertinent tables of database which are discussed in greater detail below in reference to .

In one embodiment the electronic shopping cart application s are used to create an electronic shopping cart used by users of the network based marketplace to add and store items listed by the store application s . The electronic shopping cart applications may also be used to check out meaning a user may purchase items in the electronic shopping cart. The electronic shopping cart applications may facilitate the transactions by automatically finding the items in the electronic shopping cart across at least one or all of a predefined set of vendors a comparison shopping site an auction site etc. In various embodiments the selection criteria for which vendor or vendors to purchase from may include but is not limited to criteria such as lowest cost fastest shipping time preferred or highest rated vendors or sellers or any combination thereof.

It will be appreciated that one or more the various example networking applications and marketplace applications may be combined into a single application. Further in some embodiments the one or more applications may be omitted and additional applications may also be included. Additionally while the applications of are discussed in the plural sense it is noted that a single version of the application may be utilized.

The user table may contain a record for each registered user of the network based marketplace and may include identifier address and financial instrument information pertaining to each such registered user. A user may operate as a seller a buyer or both within the network based marketplace . Each user record of the user table may be linked to one or more shopping cart records of the shopping cart table which contains a record of each item placed in an electronic shopping cart of the user. In some embodiments each user record of the user table may be linked to one or more social network connection records of the connection table so as to associate each of the user s social network connections with the user. In some embodiments a social network connection record may have a corresponding user record in the user table .

The transaction table contains a record for each transaction e.g. a purchase or sale transaction pertaining to items for which records exist within the items table . Each user record of the user table may be linked to one or more transaction records so as to associate a user with each the user s previous transactions.

The tables also include an items table in which are maintained item records for goods and services that are available to be or have been transacted via the network based marketplace . Each item record within the items table may furthermore be linked to one or more user records within the user table so as to associate a seller and one or more actual or potential buyers with each item record. Each item record within the items table may also be linked to one or more feedback records within the feedback table so as to associate feedback with each corresponding item.

In one example embodiment the feedback table may be utilized by one or more feedback applications to construct and maintain feedback information corresponding to items offered for sale. Each feedback record may be linked to one or more social network connections or user records of the connection table and user table respectively so as to associate feedback with its author.

At operation an indication is received from the shopping cart applications indicating that one or more items have been added to an electronic shopping cart of a user hosted by the network based marketplace . The indication may include detailed item information pertaining to the one or more items. The detailed item information may include an item identifier e.g. a model number or merchant catalog number used to locate feedback related to the item. In some embodiments the item information may be retrieved from a repository of item information such as the database or third party server .

At operation the feedback applications may obtain feedback information related to the one or more items added to the electronic shopping cart. The feedback information retrieved may be limited to feedback generated from one or more specified additional users. For example the feedback information obtained by the feedback application may be limited to feedback generated by a social network connection of the user. In this example obtaining feedback information from a social network connection may include identifying social connections of the user e.g. by the social network applications who may have generated feedback related to a particular item through retrieval of records maintained in the various tables of database .

In some embodiments the feedback information may be retrieved based on the item identifier received from the shopping cart applications . In one embodiment the feedback information may be obtained from a feedback repository hosted by the network based marketplace e.g. database . In other embodiments the feedback information may be retrieved from a repository of feedback hosted by a third party server e.g. third party server .

At operation the feedback information obtained at operation is automatically provided to the user during the checkout process. In some embodiments the feedback information is provided to the user in response to the user adding an item to the electronic shopping cart. In other embodiments the feedback information is provided to the user in response to the user purchasing an item added to the electronic shopping cart.

In some embodiments the feedback information may include a recommendation for related items and services. For example a user purchasing a smart phone may be provided with a recommendation for smart phone covers.

Method may also provide the user with an option to post a request for additional feedback to a social network specified by the user at operation . The post may for example be a status update a tweet a comment or any form of social network post that may be surfaced on the activity feed of additional users of the social network. The generation and posting of the request for additional feedback may be facilitated by the social network applications . In some embodiments the post may be generated and posted without further interaction from the user.

Method may also provide the user with an option to join an interest group related to a particular item at operation . The social networking application may facilitate the joining of the interest group which may also be identified by the social networking applications .

As illustrated in the electronic shopping cart also includes feedback information which may be automatically provided to the user in response to the user adding the item to the electronic shopping cart . In this example the electronic shopping cart may also include prompt which may provide the user with the ability to post to a social network a request for additional feedback through selection of button . In some embodiments the user may be able to specify the social network to which the request for additional feedback is posted.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

