---

title: Systems and methods for permission arbitrated transaction services
abstract: Systems and methods disclosed enable a permitting party to share credit data and/or personal information with a receiving party, such as an individual with whom the permitting party has established a trusted connection. In some embodiments, the permitting party may define how much of the permitting party's personal information or other data is shared. In some embodiments, data sharing may be enabled, in part, by generating an identifier that may be provided to the receiving party in order to access the shared data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744956&OS=08744956&RS=08744956
owner: Experian Information Solutions, Inc.
number: 08744956
owner_city: Costa Mesa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 175 401 filed Jul. 1 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 360 904 filed Jul. 1 2010 and titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PERMISSION ARBITRATED TRANSACTION SERVICES both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. This application also claims the benefit of both U.S. provisional Application No. 61 527 573 filed Aug. 25 2011 and U.S. provisional Application No. 61 541 936 filed Sep. 30 2011 which are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.

This disclosure generally relates to accessing personal information and more particularly to systems and methods for permission arbitrated transaction services relating to personal information.

The terminology used in the description presented herein is not intended to be interpreted in any limited or restrictive manner simply because it is being utilized in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Furthermore embodiments of the invention may include several novel features no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes or which is essential to practicing the inventions described herein.

In some embodiments the systems computer clients and or servers described below take the form of a computing system as shown in . is a block diagram showing an embodiment in which the computing system is in communication with a network and various systems are also in communication with the network . The computing system may be used to implement systems and methods described herein. For example the computing system may be configured to receive requests for personal information and generate outputs corresponding to the type of information requested. In some embodiments the system is accessed remotely by a client the system is local to the client and or a combination of the two. One example client may be an individual or a business that uses the systems and methods to request access to another individual s personal information such as information that is indicative of character attributes of the individual.

The terms individual consumer customer people persons party entity and the like whether singular or plural should be interpreted to include either individuals or groups of individuals such as for example married couples or domestic partners organizations groups business entities and other entities.

The computing system includes for example a personal computer that is IBM Macintosh or Linux Unix compatible. In one embodiment the computing system comprises a server a laptop computer a cell phone a personal digital assistant a kiosk or an audio player for example. In one embodiment the exemplary computing system includes a central processing unit CPU which may include a conventional microprocessor. The computing system further includes a memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information and a read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device. Typically the modules of the computing system are connected to the computer using a standard based bus system . In different embodiments the standard based bus system could be Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Microchannel Small Computer System Interface SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures for example. In addition the functionality provided for in the components and modules of the computing system which is also referred to herein as the permission arbitrated transaction services system or simply the PATS system may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

The computing system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Unix Linux SunOS Solaris or other compatible operating systems. In Macintosh systems the operating system may be any available operating system such as MAC OS X. In other embodiments the computing system may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The exemplary computing system includes one or more commonly available input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touchpad and printer. In one embodiment the I O devices and interfaces include one or more display device such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user. More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs application software data and multimedia presentations for example. The computing system may also include one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces provide a communication interface to various external devices. In the embodiment of the computing system is electronically coupled to a network which comprises one or more of a LAN WAN or the Internet for example via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link . The network communicates with various computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links.

In addition to the devices that are illustrated in the network may communicate with other data sources or other computing devices. In addition the data sources may include one or more internal and or external data sources. In some embodiments one or more of the data structures or data sources may be implemented using a relational database such as Sybase Oracle CodeBase and Microsoft SQL Server as well as other types of data structures such as for example a flat file data structure an entity relationship data structure and object oriented data structure and or a record based data structure.

In the embodiment of the computing system is coupled to a secured network such as a secured LAN for example. The system communicates with the internal data structure s and external data structure s . In some embodiments the system may communicate with the internal data structure via a secured network such as a secured LAN. In some embodiments the internal data structure s and the external data structure may be configured to communicate with additional computing devices over the networks and or some other network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link.

In the embodiment of the computing system also includes a permission arbitrated transactions services PATS module that may be executed by the CPU . For example the computing system may be configured to execute the PATS module among others in order to provide information based on data in internal data structure s and or external data structure s as explained in further detail below. The sources of the data accessed may include consumer information available to a credit bureau such as credit profile data demographic data marketing data credit scores marketing scores behavioral scores inferred data and the like and any third party data to which the credit bureau may have access. The sources of data may also include consumer provided data such as preferences interests affinity desires behavioral data transactional data such as purchases and any other self defined or personally created data. In various embodiments such data may be available on one or more of the internal data structure s and or external data structure s .

It is recognized that the term remote may include data objects devices components and or modules not stored locally that is not accessible via the local bus. Thus remote data may include a device which is physically stored in the same room and connected to the computing system via a network. In other situations a remote device may also be located in a separate geographic area such as for example in a different location country and so forth.

In one embodiment the computing system may allow a user also referred to as the permitting party to share the user s personal information with another party such as the receiving party . The receiving party may then use the information to authenticate the permitting party assess information associated with the permitting party determine if the permitting party is compatible with one or more other users associated with the receiving party validate the permitting party and so forth. The permitting party may define how much of the permitting party s personal information is shared and or limit the use of the information for one or more specific purposes. Personal information may include any information associated with an entity such as information that may be used for purpose of one or more of authentication assessment compatibility legitimacy and validation. Requesting parties and or receiving parties may also request and be provided access to via the computing system non personal aggregate attributes such as for the purpose of enabling the use of summarized attributes in areas such as website advertising for example.

Similarly a requesting party may set up criteria for the types of information it wants to review along with the intended use of the information. The requesting party may also provide a system that enables permitting parties the ability to grant the requesting party access to the requested information. This access may be direct or via a gateway.

As one example a requesting party may be the Smith family which is looking to hire a home nurse to watch over the family s aging grandmother. The Smith family can then decide that it would like to review credit information criminal background information and general demographic information of potential home nurse applicants. One such potential home nurse applicant may be Jane Jones. The Smith family may provide information to the computing system and more particularly to the PATS module requesting certain personal information regarding Jane Jones. For example the Smith family may access a website that is controlled by the provider of the PATS module in order to provide a request for information regarding Jane Jones. The requested may be provided via any available user interface elements and may include various options for payment for provision of the personal information. Alternatively the request for information regarding an individual may be communicated to the computing system in any other manner such as via SMS message email message phone call letter or other In this embodiment Jane Jones a home health nurse who is looking for a new patient is the permitting party that is provided an opportunity to permit the Smith family the requesting party to access certain of her personal information. In one embodiment Ms. Jones is notified of a request for personal information in one or more of various manners such as an SMS message email message letter phone call or an alert in an online portal such as a credit monitoring portal of which Mr. Jones is a member. Thus Jane Jones can utilize the system to permit the Smith family to review her personal information and the Smith family can use the system to determine that Jane Jones is looking for a new patient receive information verifying whether Jane Jones is who she says she is and receive information from the computing system about Jane Jones credit history criminal background and or any other requested information.

As another example nurse Jack Brown may be another nurse looking for potential patients to take care of. As the permitting party Jack Brown may provide information to the computing system and more particularly to the PATS module indicating agreement to make certain of his personal information such as his credit history and criminal background information available to certain receiving parties which may be families looking to hire a home nurse. Thus Jack Brown can utilize the system to permit receiving parties to review his personal information. One such family the Doe family which is qualified as a receiving party based on criteria provided by Jack Brown the permitting party can access information over a network to determine that Jack Brown is looking for a new patient and receive information from the computing system about Jack Brown s credit history and criminal background.

Credit data as well as public records demographics such as for example age and aggregated attributes relating to credit data may be enabled for scalable distribution into digital and non digital platforms. Permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods disclosed herein may enable such scalable distribution through various web properties utilizing permission based handshakes an open web framework and or architecture transformation layers and authentication rules. Website developers or others may utilize an API SDK framework to write to the computing system . Such a PATS system may accept common request and delivery types such as XML world wide web SMS mobile technology and the like over secure channels such as https for example using common web services such as REST and SOAP for example .

Embodiments of the permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods may leverage a variety of possible interactions between parties to present potential opportunities for character and personal assessment between two or more parties and . Some example interactions include tenant screening social networks and matchmaking hiring and employment electronic exchanges searching for caregivers client screening background checks. Credit data as well as public records demographics such as for example age and aggregated attributes relating to credit data may be transformed using the permission arbitrated transaction services PATS system into a broad consumable language where required in order to provide parties with new standards for assessment of other parties character compatibility employability and the like. In various embodiments the PATS system may be operated by a credible and trusted entity acting as an arbitrator between the various parties. In some embodiments the PATS system may be operated by a credit bureau.

Some embodiments of the permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods may also enable entities such as small business owners with a simplified mechanism for accessing personal information of entities. Typically business owners undergo extensive verification processes including site visits for example in order to be authorized to access credit data. The permission arbitrated transaction services may speed up this process by performing the necessary validation electronically and or online in real time to allow the small business owners quicker access to credit data.

Embodiments of the PATS system may be implemented as a data as a service model. Such a model includes standardized processes for accessing data where it lives the actual platform on which the data resides does not matter. For data as a service the consumption of resources may be determined by the buyer customer user on an as needed basis and may utilize web services or cloud computing. Applications and methods of access to a data as a service model may vary depending on the type of information requested primarily due to statutory requirements and governing regulations relating to the information.

Next in block the PATS system receives a selected purpose from the requesting party . In various embodiments the selected purpose may be one or more of compatibility assessment authentication legitimacy validation and the like. In one embodiment the requesting party establishes a default purpose for requesting personal information of other entities such that block may be skipped in requests for personal information by that particular requesting party . For example a landlord may select a default purpose of determining credibility that should be used with subsequent request for personal information by the landlord using the PATS system .

Moving to block the PATS system may optionally receive an additional purpose. In various embodiments the additional purpose may be that the data be used only for social networking purposes for rental screening purposes and the like. Additionally the system may receive details such as when the data is needed for example as a one time transaction or as part of batch processing and whether the data should be transformed in any way. In some embodiments the requesting party can provide preferences for one or more of the above tasks in blocks and such that those tasks may be automated using the requesting party s default preferences. Thus blocks and may not be individually performed for each request from a requesting party .

Next in block the PATS system ensures that the requesting party complies with and accepts any legal requirements for customer responsibility. Such requirements may include one or more of obtaining acceptance and an electronic signature from the requesting party receiving payment details such as credit card information from the requesting party or other legal consent information. The requesting party may be asked by the system to provide evidence of written instruction. Such written instruction may include an electronic signature as defined by the ESIGN Act or any other method that governing bodies may approve as adequate proof.

The PATS system may then use the payment details to process payment for the account creation fee. In some embodiments the payment model for the PATS system may be transactional. In other embodiments it may be by batch. The payment method may be by credit by debit by PayPal account and the like. Payment for a transaction may be received from the requesting party from the permitting party or both.

Next in block the PATS system verifies whether there may be identity theft or some other form of fraud based on the information received by the requesting party . The parties identities may be verified using a variety of authentication and fraud detection techniques by the PATS system . Regardless of the result of this verification the PATS system may store the details of the transaction s with the requesting party in a device such as mass storage device for example in order to enable comprehensive tracking of each transaction. The requesting party may also be asked to affirmatively accept or reject clear and conspicuous instructions to support defend or refute that the transaction was requested. Details of the transaction s may include IP address transaction time originating source for example member number third party website partner and reseller identification data with respect to the requesting party s actions such as for example obligation and responsibilities acceptance e signature and acknowledgments of instructions .

If the PATS system detects identity theft or fraud then at block the system may request a fax of personally identifiable information from the requesting party and any other information relating to the additional purpose received at block . If the system receives such information the system may or may not receive such requested information from the requesting party then at block the information is reviewed and if the information is verified the method continues to block . In one embodiment if the information is verified e.g. the requesting party is authenticated a message with a traceable and or encrypted message and or link may be sent to the requesting party s location which may be for example an email address a social networking username and or a mobile phone reached by an SMS where the link is usable to continue with the request for personal information. If the system determines that the requesting party cannot be authenticated based on the received information or if personally identifiable information is not received the method continues to block where follow up with the requesting party using standard membership processes for suspicious account handling may be performed.

If the PATS system does not detect identity theft or fraud at block or if there was a suspicion of theft or fraud but the personally identifiable information was verified at block then at block the system may receive information regarding the targeted permitting party from the receiving party as well as the type of product to request regarding the permitting party . In various embodiments the information regarding the permitting party may include one or more of the permitting party s email address name address date of birth driver s license number employer name income and the like. In various embodiments the type of information regarding the permitting party that is requested may include one or more of a credit score a credit profile with a decision a full credit profile with personally identifiable information removed a credit profile with some information removed information regarding the character of permitting party and the like. In some embodiments the authentication blocks may be performed in another manner possibly by another entity that specializes in authentication. Authentication performed by the PATS system and or the other entity may include one or more of several authentication techniques known to one skilled in the art. Thus in some embodiments a process of requesting personal information of an entity that is executed by the PATS system begins with block of .

Next at block the PATS system may use the details regarding the permitting party to contact the permitting party . In some embodiments the PATS system may have access to further contact information regarding the permitting party that may not be available to the requesting party . For example the requesting party may not have an e mail address of the permitting party but the PATS system may determine the e mail address of the permitting party and communicate with the permitting party via the e mail address. For example in a social networking scenario the PATS system may request and receive contact information of the permitting party from the social networking system where the contact information is not available to requesting party . When the PATS system communicates with the permitting party information that at least partially identifies the requesting party and details regarding the request are provided. In one embodiment the permitting party may initiate acceptance of the request by the requesting party for example by clicking an encrypted link if received by email. In this way the permitting party may authorize or reject the request for information. In other embodiments the permitting party may authorize reject requests for access to personal information in any other manners such as via a web interface telephone call email or other means.

Next at block the permitting party the permitting party may be given the ability to provide authorizations after being informed of a specific request for access to their information. The permitting party may provide authorization to the system for the requesting party in any number of ways including those discussed above . In some embodiments the permitting party may select portions of the requested information that the requesting party is authorized to access.

In one embodiment the permitting party is also required to have an account with the PATS system such as to authenticate that the permitting party really is the entity that the requesting party is seeking information from. Thus the permitting party may need to provide authentication information to the PATS system. For example if the permitting party has not previously set up an account with the PATS system blocks and if necessary blocks may be repeated for the permitting party . Depending on the embodiment authentication of the permitting party may be different than the required authentication for the requesting party . For example the permitting party may not need to provide as much authentication information as the requesting party or vice versa.

During the set up of the account for the permitting party or for a previously set up account the permitting party may be asked at block to provide permission for access to personal information and to determine the type of information to make available to the requesting party . In various embodiments the types of information available for request by the requesting party and available to allow access to by the permitting party may include one or more of a credit score a credit profile with a decision a full credit profile with personally identifiable information removed a credit profile with some information removed and the like. Next the method moves to block described further below.

Next in block the PATS system receives a selected purpose from the permitting party . In various embodiments the selected purpose may be one or more of compatibility assessment authentication legitimacy validation and the like. In some embodiments the PATS system may also receive information from the permitting party identifying one or more receiving parties for which information may be made available. In other embodiments the system may receive information from the permitting party identifying receiving parties for which information may be restricted from being available.

Moving to block the PATS system may optionally receive an additional purpose. In various embodiments the additional purpose may be that the data be used only for social networking purposes for rental screening purposes and the like. Additionally the system may receive details such as when the data is needed for example as a one time transaction or as part of batch processing and whether the data should be transformed in any way. In some embodiments the permitting party can provide preferences for one or more of the above tasks in blocks and such that those tasks may be automated using the permitting party s default preferences.

Next in block the PATS system ensures that the permitting party complies with and accepts any legal requirements for customer responsibility. Such requirements may include one or more of obtaining acceptance and an electronic signature from the permitting party receiving payment details such as credit card information from the permitting party or other legal consent information. The permitting party may be asked by the system to provide evidence of written instruction. Such written instruction may include an electronic signature as defined by the ESIGN Act or any other method that governing bodies may approve as adequate proof.

Then in block the PATS system receives details about the type of information for which permission is granted by the permitting party for the receiving part ies . In various embodiments the type of product may include one or more of a credit score a credit profile with a decision a full credit profile with personally identifiable information removed a credit profile with some information removed and the like.

Next in block the PATS system verifies whether there may be identity theft or some other form of fraud based on the information received by the permitting party . The parties identities may also be verified using a variety of authentication and fraud detection techniques by the PATS system . Regardless of the result of this verification the PATS system may store the details of the transaction s with the permitting party in a device such as mass storage device for example in order to enable comprehensive tracking of each transaction. The permitting party may also be asked to affirmatively accept or reject clear and conspicuous instructions to support defend or refute that the transaction was requested. Details of the transaction s may include IP address transaction time originating source for example member number third party website partner and reseller identification data with respect to the permitting party s actions such as for example obligation and responsibilities acceptance e signature and acknowledgments of instructions .

If the PATS system detects identity theft or fraud then at block the system may request a fax of personally identifiable information from the permitting party and any other information relating to the additional purpose received at block . If the system receives such information from the permitting party then at block the information is reviewed the method continues to block . In one embodiment if the information is verified e.g. the permitting party is authenticated a message with a traceable and or encrypted message and or link may be sent to the permitting party s location which may be for example an email address a social networking username and or a mobile phone reached by an SMS where the link is usable to further define details regarding access to the permitting party s personal information. If the system determines that the permitting party cannot be authenticated based on the received information or if personally identifiable information is not received the method continues to block where follow up with the permitting party using standard membership processes for suspicious account handling may be performed.

If the PATS system does not detect identity theft or fraud at block or if there was a suspicion of theft or fraud but the personally identifiable information was verified at block then at block the PATS system may use the payment details to process payment for the account creation fee and or for providing a product to a receiving party . In some embodiments the payment model for the PATS system may be transactional. In other embodiments it may be by batch. The payment method may be by credit by debit by PayPal account and the like. Payment for a transaction may be received by the requesting party by the permitting party or both. In some embodiments the authentication blocks may be performed in another manner possibly by another entity that specializes in authentication. Thus in some embodiments a process of permitting use of personal information of an entity that is executed by the PATS system begins with block of .

Next at block the PATS system may contact one or more receiving party . In some embodiments the PATS system may have access to further contact information regarding the receiving party that may not be available to the permitting party . For example the permitting party may not have an e mail address of the receiving party but the PATS system may determine the e mail address of the receiving party and communicate with the receiving party via the e mail address. For example in a social networking scenario the PATS system may request and receive contact information of the receiving party from the social networking system where the contact information is not available to permitting party .

In one embodiment the receiving party is also required to have an account with the PATS system such as to authenticate that the receiving party really is the entity to whom the permitting party has provided permission to access information. Thus the receiving party may need to provide authentication information to the PATS system. For example if the receiving party has not previously set up an account with the PATS system blocks and if necessary blocks may be repeated for the receiving party . Depending on the embodiment authentication of the receiving party may be different than the required authentication for the permitting party . For example the receiving party may not need to provide as much authentication information as the permitting party or vice versa.

Next at block the PATS system generates credit bureau data credit attributes and or transformation of such data in order to generate the a product including the information requested and or permitted at blocks or . In one embodiment personal information is grouped into various products that may be authorized for release to requesting and or permitting parties. For example a credit report product may include the typical pieces of credit information and information associated with the credit information that is provided to consumers in credit reports. The type of information requested by a requesting party and or permitted by the permitting party may vary. In some embodiments the information may be for example header information included in a typical credit bureau report which may be used for authentication. In other embodiments the information may be for example a credit bureau profile which may include the full profile some credit scores some credit attributes and or abstractions of the score and or attributes.

In some embodiments the information provide to requesting and or receiving parties may be transformed from its original format. For example an abstract representation of a credit score or decision may be rendered in the form of an expression such as an icon that ranges from a smile to a frown wherein the expression is representative of the credit score. For example expressive face icons may be associated with credit score ranges so that a credit scores in the range of 780 820 for example may be associated with a smiley face icon while credit scores in the range of 300 600 may be associated with a frowny face. Expressions may also include common connotations such as number of stars or degrees of moon fullness. Additionally embodiments in the form of low to high scores and decisions may be abstracted in quantitative progressions ranges and volumes and can be rendered as gauges thermometers speedometers and other meters as well as in common chart formats such as pie charts bar charts and sliders.

In yet other embodiments the information may be demographics such as age sex location and so forth. In some embodiments the information may be education records. In other embodiments the information may be public records such as liens and lawsuits for example. In other embodiments the information may be criminal records. In other embodiments the information may include some other form of data and or transformations of the other types of information listed above.

If the request for data comprises a soft inquiry the permitting party may acknowledge that they are sharing the result with the requesting party and a transformed result such as a score for example indicating a consumable grade such as excellent may be provided. If the request comprises a hard inquiry the permitting party may provide written authorization to the system and by proxy to the requesting party . Such written authorization may need to conform to electronic standards for providing written authorization. A transformed result such as a score for example indicating a consumable grade such as excellent may be provided. In some embodiments the information generated at block may be provisioned to a location for example a secure server an encrypted file mailbox an access point a message or the like .

Finally at block the PATS system may contact the requesting party or the receiving party to alert that they are authorized to access the generated information. In various embodiments the system may notify for example by encrypted email or by short message service SMS message or the like the party that the information is available require the party to acknowledge their obligations under law if required by affirming the singular purpose for the receipt of the information. The PATS system may then allow the party to access the information at the provided location. In some embodiments the access to the generated file for example the party s credit report may be limited in time. The time limit may be 24 hours or some other time limit that agreeably reduces the established and standard risk parameters.

The output provided by the PATS system may depend on the type of service for which information is requested. illustrates one embodiment of the permission based transaction services system and the flow of data between entities for tenant screening purposes. As seen in for tenant screening services 1 the landlord as the requesting party sends a request to the PATS system via the network for information regarding a potential tenant e.g. a credit report of a potential tenant Joan Doe . Then 2 the PATS system contacts via the network a potential tenant as a permitting party to receive permission to send information regarding the potential tenant to the landlord . Then 3 the potential tenant via the network provides permission to the PATS system to send or otherwise provide access to the information to the landlord . The potential tenant may decide to provide no or a limited amount of the requested information. For example the potential tenant may authorize the landlord to access only a credit report including Personal Information Profile Summary Score Summary Public records or an extract of the credit report and score and or a decision. For example the PATS system may include or may have access to logic provided by another entity to analyze certain personal information of the potential tenant and provide an indicator of a recommended decision for the landlord such as for example approve refer and or decline based on the property manager s established parameters. Such decision logic may have various options for customization by the landlord such as based on the landlords willingness to risk entering into an agreement with an unsuitable tenant. In one embodiment the PATS system may suppress certain personally identifiable information of the tenant either by default or by specific request by the potential tenant such as social security number and detailed tradeline data from being returned in the output to the landlord . Based on the permissions authorized by the potential tenant in step 4 the PATS system returns to the landlord only the information permitted by the potential tenant .

The example of also illustrates authentication steps labeled with A between the PATS system and both of the potential tenant and the landlord . As discussed above some level of authentication of both the permitting party and the requesting party may be required. Various authentication techniques may be used such as those illustrated and discussed with reference to . Authentication may occur prior to steps discussed above and or at other points between or during completion of the steps. For example the landlord may need to provide authentication information before providing the request for the credit report of Joan Doe and may be required to again provide authentication information after permission has been granted by Joan Doe and prior to accesses the information.

In another embodiment such as for example for hiring and employment services the data output may include a credit report including Personal Information Profile Summary Score Summary Public Records or an extract of the credit report and a credit score and or a decision such as for example hire do not hire based on the employer s established parameters . In some embodiments the output may include only a credit score or a transformation of a credit score into another abstraction.

The example of also illustrates authentication steps labeled with A between the PATS system and both of the social networkers and . As discussed above some level of authentication of both the permitting party and the receiving party may be required. Various authentication techniques may be used such as those illustrated and discussed with reference to . Authentication may occur prior to steps discussed above and or at other points between or during completion of the steps.

In another embodiment for search of caregiver services the data output may include a consumer report including Personal Information Score Summary and or Public Records. The permission arbitrated transaction services system may suppress information such as the party s social security number and detailed Tradeline data from being returned in the output. In some embodiments the output may include a transformation of a credit score into another abstraction such as for example a red yellow or green symbol or icon and or a transformation of public records into another abstraction such as for example red yellow or green symbol or icon .

In another embodiment for electronic exchanges the output may comprise authentication credit and public record data that is returned in transformed format.

As illustrated in 1 the PATS system establishes connections between the data sharing user and trusted connections such as by sending connection requests and receiving acceptances or confirmations of the requests. These trusted connections to the user may be individuals or entities with which the data sharing user would like to add to a network of the user for purposes of trusted data sharing. For example the trusted connections may include friends family account providers business associates potential customers employers potential employers landlords vendors and or other individuals or entities with whom the user may have interest in sharing credit data or personal information. In some embodiments establishing the connection information may include the data sharing user indicating one or more users with whom he would like to establish a connection. In response the PATS system may send a connection request via the network to each of the indicated users illustrated as trusted connections . The trusted connections may receive the connection requests for example via SMS message email and or a user interface generated by the PATS system upon the user accessing an online portal for an account established with the PATS system. If the receiving user recognizes the data sharing user and chooses to accept the connection request the PATS system may store connection information in one or more data stores such as mass storage device indicating a connection between data sharing user and the other user such as one of trusted connections .

Once the data sharing user has established trusted connections with one or more other users the PATS system may 2 provide the user with a list of the user s connections such as via a user interface including elements similar to those discussed below with reference to . The list may be provided for example as part of a user interface that enables the data sharing user to select one or more of these pre established connections with which to share credit data and or other personal information in a secure trusted manner. From the user interface generated by the PATS system the data sharing user may 3 select one or more of the connections and indicate data associated with the user that the user would like to share with the indicated connection. For example the user may indicate that the PATS system should allow a specific friend illustrated as trusted connection A to access the user s credit score and home address. The user may in some embodiments indicate a category of the trusted connection A. For example the user may indicate that more information should be shared with a family member than with a vendor. In some embodiments the PATS system may enable the user to place certain limits on the access to the shared data granted to trusted connection A such as options for the user to indicate that the connection can only access the data once may only access the data for a certain amount of time such as only during the next day week or up until a set time or some other limitation.

As illustrated in the PATS system may 4 provide an indication to the indicated connection A that shared data is available for viewing. In some embodiments the indication may be provided to the trusted connection A via SMS message a phone call and or email. In other embodiments the trusted connection A may simply be notified that data is available for viewing the next time that the trusted connection accesses an account established or associated with the PATS system such as by entering a username password and or providing other authentication credentials. In some embodiments regardless of the type of notification provided to the trusted connection the PATS system may request authentication information such as a username password answers to security questions verification of personal information a trusted identifier or the like prior to providing the trusted connection with the data that the data sharing user selected to share. Once the trusted connection A has successfully accessed the PATS system and provided any requested identity authentication information the PATS system may 5 provide to the trusted connection A the data that the data sharing user selected to share in this example the data sharing user s credit score and home address . As will be appreciated embodiments similar to that illustrated in may include many of the above features previously discussed with respect to other embodiments such as receiving and storing electronic signatures and or other permission data given by the data sharing user and or trusted connections in order to comply with legal requirements for sharing credit data in the appropriate jurisdiction.

User interface includes a sharing summary section which indicates a purpose based sharing summary and a custom sharing summary . As indicated by purpose based sharing summary the user has currently selected to share data with five connections for the purpose of tenant screening. These connections may be for example potential landlords of properties that the user is interested in renting. The data shared with these landlord connections may be for example a preset selection of credit data for the purpose of tenant assessment that includes Personal Information Profile Summary Score Summary Public Records and or an extract of the user s credit report and score. The purpose based sharing summary also indicates that the user is sharing data with three connections for purposes of buying a car which may include sharing a different set of data than that which is shared for purposes of tenant screening. Custom sharing summary indicates that the user is sharing his credit score with a single connection Jill for two days. The sharing with Jill may have been set up by the user using a user interface generated by the PATS system such as a user interface similar to that discussed below with reference to . The user may select cancel option in order to cancel any of the current data sharing approvals identified in sharing summaries and .

The illustrative method begins at block where the PATS system receives a user selection of credit information and or other information regarding the user that the user would like to share with one or more individuals or entities via a generated identifier. In some embodiments the selection may indicate types of data for example a credit score employment data address information and or any of the other types of data previously discussed above . Alternatively or additionally the user selection may indicate a type of report to share. The selection may indicate one or more individuals that will be given access to the selected data such that no individual other than those indicated will be able to access the selected data associated with the identifier. The indicated individuals in some embodiments may include specific users or groups of users of the PATS system with whom the given user is connected specific users or groups of users of the PATS system with whom the given user is not connected and or individuals that do not have an account with the PATS system. In other embodiments the user selection might not include information identifying a specific user but may instead be associated with the user s request to generate an identifier or code that will enable any recipient of the identifier to access the selected data. Such a code may include other security mechanisms such as being encrypted having an expiration period being a one time use code that only allows the first requestor of the data associated with the code to access the data and or other mechanisms for securing access to data via a network.

At block the PATS system generates an identifier that can be used to access the data that the user selected to share received at block . In some embodiments the generated identifier may be a uniform resource identifier URI . For example selection of the generated URI by a recipient may cause a browser or other application executed by a computing device of the recipient to request data associated with the URI from the PATS system . In some embodiments the generated identifier may be a graphical code such as a Quick Response Code QR code or any other one dimensional barcode two dimensional code or other graphical representation capable of conveying data. In some embodiments in which a graphical code is generated the PATS system may first generate a URI or other textual descriptor representing the shared data or referencing a location from which the shared data may be accessed and may then generate a graphical code such as a QR code that represents the generated URI. For example the graphical code may be generated according to known methods that accept text information which may include the generated URI in the given example as input and which output a graphical code that may be decoded by an appropriate decoding module executed by a recipient computing device that captures an image of the generated graphical code.

Upon generating the identifier the PATS system may store information associated with the identifier identifying the indicated data to share and or identifying the permitted users in one or more data stores such as mass storage device . The stored data may be retrieved and used by the PATS system to determine the permissions and appropriate data to share when a recipient of the identifier later requests the shared data.

In some embodiments a URI graphical code and or other identifier generated by the PATS system at block may be encrypted. The generated identifier may in some embodiments be associated with an expiration time. For example based on a sharing time period selected by the user and or based on default time periods for one or more types of sharing stored in the mass storage device or other data store expiration time and date information may be stored by the PATS system in association with the identifier. Stored expiration information may later be retrieved by the PATS system when a recipient requests the shared data associated with the identifier in order to determine whether the expiration time has passed. In other embodiments the expiration information may be encrypted and embedded in the identifier itself. In some embodiments the generated identifier may be a one time use identifier. For example in one embodiment a user may request a new identifier each time that the user wants to share data with any other individual and the PATS system may only provide the shared data to the first requester such as the first recipient of a generated URI that requests the data associated with the URI from the PATS system .

Once the PATS system has generated the identifier the illustrative method proceeds to block where the PATS system receives a request for information associated with the identifier from a recipient of the identifier. The request may be received for example from the computing device of a user who selected the identifier from an email or other message sent by the sharing user or from a user interface generated by the PATS system indicating that shared data was available to view. In embodiments in which the generated identifier includes a graphical code the request for information associated with the identifier may be received by the PATS system as a result of a computing device of the requesting user capturing a digital image of the graphical code such as using a camera of a mobile computing device such as a phone or tablet . The graphical code may have been captured for example from a display screen of the sharing user which may occur when the sharing user is in physical proximity to the recipient and allows the recipient to capture the displayed graphical code from a display of a mobile device or other computing device of the sharing user. In other embodiments the graphical code may be captured from a printed page provided to the recipient by the sharing user or from some other digital display or printed source.

In response to receiving the request for information associated with the identifier from the recipient the PATS system may confirm validity of the identifier and or the identity of the recipient of the code the requester of the data associated with the code at block . The validity confirmation may include for example decrypting information in the identifier to determine any expiration information and or information identifying authorized recipients. Alternatively or additionally the validity confirmation may include the PATS system retrieving additional information regarding the identifier from the mass storage device or other data store in order to determine what security mechanisms authorized recipient identification information and or expiration periods have been associated with the identifier. The PATS system may additionally confirm that the data sharing associated with the identifier has not been canceled or altered by the sharing user since the identifier was generated. Confirming the identity of the recipient may include requiring login credentials for the recipient s account with the PATS system and or requiring the recipient to answer identity authorization questions. Confirming the identity of the recipient is discussed further below with reference to . If the identifier is determined to be invalid or the recipient is determined to not be authorized to access the shared data the PATS system may prevent the recipient from accessing any data associated with the identifier.

If the PATS system determines that the identifier is valid and the recipient is authorized to access the shared data the illustrative method proceeds to block where the PATS system provides the recipient with the credit data and or other information that the sharing user selected to share in association with the generated identifier. The shared data may be provided for example via a user interface generated by the PATS system. As discussed above in some embodiments the shared data may include credit data such as a full or partial credit report and or a credit score of the sharing user. In some embodiments the PATS system may provide the most recent relevant credit data pulled or retrieved in response to a previous credit information request by the sharing user or an authorized third party. In other embodiments the PATS system may retrieve new credit data from a credit bureau or from a data store and or module local or remote to the PATS system such as in embodiments in which the PATS system is operated by a credit bureau . Accordingly the recipient may be provided with up to date credit data each time that the data associated with the identifier is requested. In some embodiments the credit data may be provided in a secure environment with an indication that the data has been validated or confirmed accurate by a credit bureau. For example the shared data may be provided via a program application distributed by a credit bureau or partner of a credit bureau and executed by a computing device of the recipient.

In order to share the data with the intended recipient the sharing user may allow the intended recipient to capture a digital image of code as the user interface is displayed on a screen or other display of the user s computing device using a digital camera such as a camera of a phone or other computing device operated by the recipient. Alternatively the sharing user may select option to save the identifier to a file which may be selected if the user would like to retrieve the identifier for display or printing at a later time. The user may select option in order to copy the identifier to an electronic clipboard of the user s computing device from which the user may electronically paste the identifier in an email an SMS message a document or any other location. If the user instead wishes to print the identifier the user may select option .

Embodiments of the permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods disclosed herein may also provide a framework in which commercial parties such as developers application engineers and the like build independent applications and services leveraging the PATS system data and the commercial parties may deliver those applications and services to their customers.

Embodiments of the permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods disclosed herein may comprise a component based framework developed to meet the needs and opportunities of a multitude of international markets localized for regulatory rules. For example the framework may be developed for the United States market in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act FRCA . The framework may also be developed for the United Kingdom for example in compliance with the Data Protection Act DPA .

The permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods disclosed herein may support credit bureau businesses and websites personal connection websites such as Facebook MySpace and the like matchmaking sites such as eHarmony Match.com and the like employment relates sites such as LinkedIn ZoomInfo and the like people search sites such as RapLeaf Pipl and the like communications services such as Skype and the like mobile telephony platforms tenant screening companies credit reporting companies and or other businesses to enable two or more people or entities to exchange personal information in an arbitrated secure manner quickly easily and safely.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may also support doctors lawyers small retailers and other parties wishing to initiate permissible purpose requests for credit or other related variables for purposes of making business decisions.

Some of the contemplated benefits of some embodiments of permission arbitrated transaction services systems and methods include the ability to provide end users with assessment of their connections before getting too involved with them in a fast inexpensive and reliable manner the ability to provide delivery channel partners with a complementary value add service to their constituents as well as an additional source of revenue the ability to provide credit bureaus with scaled enablement for distribution of credit data collection of proof of life data on consumers additional revenue sources leveraging of other business assets.

All of the processes described above may be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. The code module may be stored in any type of tangible computer readable medium or other computer storage device. A tangible computer readable medium is a data storage device that can store data that is readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable mediums include read only memory random access memory other volatile or non volatile memory devices CD ROMs magnetic tape flash drives and optical data storage devices. Some or all of the methods may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. As will be apparent the features and attributes of the specific embodiments disclosed above may be combined in different ways to form additional embodiments all of which are fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain preferred embodiments and applications other embodiments and applications that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art including embodiments which do not provide all of the features and advantages set forth herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. The foregoing description details certain embodiments of the invention. It will be appreciated however that no matter how detailed the foregoing appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. As is also stated above it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being re defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. The scope of the invention should therefore be construed in accordance with the appended claims and any equivalents thereof.

