---

title: Heat and mass exchangers having extruded plates
abstract: A heat and mass exchanger including a plurality of vertical plates that are spaced apart from one another by gaps so as to allow a first gas to flow between the plates. Each plate includes a front wall that defines a front surface of the plate, a back wall that defines a back surface of the plate, and separate, parallel channels disposed between the front and back walls. The parallel channels include a first set of parallel channels, a first liquid flowing within the first set of channels and over one of the front or back surfaces of the plate, the first liquid having a bulk composition comprising one or more constituents, the first gas having at least one constituent in common with the first liquid, and a second set of parallel channels, a first fluid flowing within the second set of channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389025&OS=09389025&RS=09389025
owner: AIL RESEARCH INC.
number: 09389025
owner_city: Hopewell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120608
---
This invention was made with Government support under Subcontract No. AXL 1 11896 awarded by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This application is a U.S. National Phase of PCT US2012 041661 which is based on U.S. Provisional Application 61 494 676 filed on Jun. 8 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application 61 612 735 filed on Mar. 19 2012 and are now both expired the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention is directed to heat and mass exchangers and in particular to heat and mass exchangers made up of extruded plates.

As the HVAC industry meets the rapidly expanding demand for comfort conditioning it faces challenges created by the high energy and electricity demands of vapor compression cooling systems. The industry also faces challenges from the need to better control indoor humidity. In many applications desiccant systems which can dry air without first cooling the air below its dewpoint temperature and run mostly on thermal energy will address these challenges.

Desiccant systems fall into two categories those that use solid desiccant rotors and those that circulate a liquid desiccant over a porous bed of contact media. The liquid desiccant systems can be more efficient than their solid desiccant counterparts but solid desiccant systems traditionally have had lower maintenance requirements. The higher maintenance requirements for the liquid desiccant systems are often caused by the corrosiveness of the liquid desiccant which usually is a strong salt solution. Maintenance problems can develop if droplets of the liquid desiccant become entrained in the flow of air that is being dried.

As described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 265 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety one approach to ensuring that droplets of desiccant are not entrained in the flow of air is to apply a hydrophilic wick to the surface of the contact media and then flow the liquid desiccant within this wick. Alternatively membranes such as Nafion manufactured by DuPont of Wilmington Del. USA and hydrophobic microporous films such as those manufactured by Celgard of Charlotte N.C. USA have been used to isolate the liquid desiccant from the flow of air while still allowing the desiccant to absorb water vapor from the air. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 528 905 and 6 684 649 PCT Application Publication No. WO 2009 094032 A and Conde Petit et al. Open Absorption System for Cooling and Air Conditioning Using Membrane Contactors Final Report Project No. 10131 Im Auftrag des Bundesamt f r Energie Forschungsprogramm Energie in Geb uden July 2008 have all demonstrated air conditioning systems in which a liquid desiccant flows on one side of a membrane or hydrophobic microporous film and the air that is to be dehumidified flows on the other side.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 194 041 discloses an invention in which a hydrophilic wicking layer is laminated to a hydrophobic membrane. U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 184 uses a membrane that is backed by a hydrophilic layer that wicks the liquid towards the membrane. Although U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 184 was applied to a system for desalinating seawater a review paper of liquid desiccant technology shows a conceptual drawing of a liquid desiccant contactor proposed by American Energy Exchange AEX in which the liquid desiccant flows in a wick that is separated from the process air by a membrane Conde Petit Liquid Desiccant Based Air Conditioning Systems 1st European Conference on Polygeneration Tarragona Spain October 2007 FIG. 10 .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a heat and mass exchanger that exchanges heat and or mass between a first gas stream and a first liquid stream while simultaneously heating or cooling the first liquid stream comprises a plurality of vertical plates that are spaced apart from one another by gaps so as to allow a first gas to flow between the plates each plate comprising a front wall that defines a front surface of the plate a back wall that defines a back surface of the plate and parallel channels disposed between the front and back walls each parallel channel being separated from a neighboring channel over at least a portion of the total length of the channel by a web the parallel channels comprising a first set of parallel channels a first liquid flowing within the first set of channels and over one of the front or back surfaces of the plate the first liquid having a bulk composition comprising one or more constituents the first gas having at least one constituent in common with the first liquid and a second set of parallel channels a first fluid flowing within the second set of channels.

According to at least one embodiment at least one of the plurality of plates further comprises one or more supply orifices disposed in one of the front or back walls of the plate the one or more supply orifices supplying the first liquid to the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate from the first set of channels.

According to at least one embodiment the at least one of the plurality of plates comprises a first supply orifice disposed in the front wall of the plate and a second supply orifice disposed in the back wall of the plate the first supply orifice being in communication with channels from the first set of parallel channels that are different from channels from the first set of parallel channels that are in communication with the second supply orifice.

According to at least one embodiment the at least one of the plurality of plates comprises one or more removal orifices disposed in one of the front or back walls of the plate the first liquid flowing from the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate to the first set of channels through the one or more removal orifices.

According to at least one embodiment the channels in the first set of channels that supply the first liquid to the one or more supply orifices are different from channels in the first set of channels that receive the first liquid from the one or more removal orifices.

According to at least one embodiment at least one channel in the first set of channels that supply the first liquid to the one or more supply orifices also receives the first liquid from the one or more removal orifices and the at least one channel is modified so that the first liquid cannot flow within the at least one channel between the one or more supply orifices and the one or more removal orifices.

According to at least one embodiment the at least one plate further comprises a membrane that separates the first liquid that flows over the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate from the first gas that flows in the gaps between the spaced apart plates the membrane preventing portions of the bulk composition of the first liquid from entering the flow of first gas while allowing one or more constituents of the first liquid and first gas to be exchanged.

According to at least one embodiment a periphery of the membrane is sealed to the at least one plate so that the one or more supply orifices and the one or more removal orifices are covered by the membrane.

According to at least one embodiment at least one of the plurality of plates comprises a wick within which the first liquid flows over the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate.

According to at least one embodiment at least one of the plurality of plates further comprises a means for spreading the first liquid over the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate.

According to at least one embodiment the means for spreading comprises a membrane that is intermittently bonded to the plate across the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate.

According to at least one embodiment the means for spreading comprises a spreader insert having a pattern of recesses that directs the first liquid from the one or more supply orifices to a plurality of discrete locations across the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate.

According to at least one embodiment the heat and mass exchanger further comprises a covering disposed over the one or more removal orifices the covering comprising means for directing the first liquid towards the one or more removal orifices.

According to at least one embodiment the means for directing comprises at least one of a wick an insert or a woven screen.

According to at least one embodiment the means for directing comprises protuberances or recesses formed in the covering.

According to at least one embodiment the at least one plate comprises a wick within which the first liquid flows over the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate at least a portion of the wick being disposed between the covering and the one of the front or back surfaces of the plate.

According to at least one embodiment the at least one of the plurality of plates further comprises a supply opening formed in one of the front or back walls through which the first liquid is supplied to the first set of channels for delivery to the supply orifice and a removal opening formed in one of the front or back walls through which the first liquid is removed from the first set of channels after entry of the first liquid through the removal orifice.

According to at least one embodiment the at least one of the plurality of plates further comprises a supply opening formed in a first edge of the plate through which the first liquid is supplied to the first set of channels for delivery to the supply orifice and a removal opening formed in a second edge of the plate through which the first liquid is removed from the first set of channels after entry of the first liquid through the removal orifice.

According to at least one embodiment the heat and mass exchanger further comprises a spacer disposed between at least two of the plurality of parallel plates the spacer maintaining the gap between the at least two parallel plates and mixing the first gas flowing between the at least two parallel plates.

According to at least one embodiment the spacer comprises a spine that maintains the gap between the at least two parallel plates the spine being porous so that the first gas can flow past the spine and vanes disposed on the spine that create vortices in a flow of the first gas. According to at least one embodiment the spacer is made from a twin wall extruded plate with multiple internal webs that define channels within the extruded plate by removing sections of the front and back wall of the extrusion and deforming exposed webs so that each is twisted about an axis that is aligned with the channels.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a membrane desalination unit for thermally distilling potable water from impure water comprises a plurality of vertical plates that are spaced apart from one another by gaps so as to allow impure water to flow between the plates each plate comprising a front wall that defines a front surface of the plate a back wall that defines a back surface of the plate a membrane disposed over one of the back or front surfaces of the plate the membrane allowing water vapor to cross but not liquid water and parallel channels disposed between the front and back walls each parallel channel being separated from a neighboring channel over at least a portion of the total length of the channel by a web the parallel channels comprising a first set of parallel channels impure water flowing within the first set of channels and a second set of parallel channels potable water flowing between the one of the back or front surfaces of the plate and the membrane and collected within the second set of parallel channels.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention method for exchanging heat and or mass between a first gas stream and a first liquid stream while simultaneously heating or cooling the first liquid stream comprises the steps of providing a plurality of vertical plates that are spaced apart from one another by gaps each plate comprising a front wall that defines a front surface of the plate a back wall that defines a back surface of the plate and parallel channels disposed between the front and back walls each parallel channel being separated from a neighboring channel over at least a portion of the total length of the channel by a web the parallel channels comprising a first set of parallel channels and a second set of parallel channels flowing a first gas within the gaps between the plurality of plates flowing a first liquid within the first set of channels and over one of the front or back surfaces of the plate the first liquid having a bulk composition comprising one or more constituents the first gas having at least one constituent in common with the first liquid and flowing a first fluid within the second set of channels.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a vertical plate for use with a heat and mass exchanger that exchanges heat and or mass between a first gas stream and a first liquid stream while simultaneously heating or cooling the first liquid stream comprises a front wall that defines a front surface of the plate a first supply orifice disposed in the front wall of the plate a back wall that defines a back surface of the plate a second supply orifice disposed in the back wall of the plate and parallel channels disposed between the front and back walls each parallel channel being separated from a neighboring channel over at least a portion of the total length of the channel by a web the parallel channels comprising a first set of parallel channels a first liquid flowing within the first set of channels and through the first and second supply orifices so that the first liquid flows over the front and back surfaces of the plate the first liquid having a bulk composition comprising one or more constituents the first gas having at least one constituent in common with the first liquid and a second set of parallel channels a first fluid flowing within the second set of channels.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a spacer is disposed between at least two parallel surfaces at least one of the parallel surfaces exchanging heat and or mass with a first fluid stream that flows between the at least two parallel surfaces and the spacer comprises a spine that maintains a gap between the at least two parallel surfaces the spine being porous so that the first fluid can flow past the spine and vanes disposed on the spine that create vortices in a flow of the first fluid so as to mix the first fluid.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a heat and mass exchanger exchanges heat and or mass between a first gas stream and a first liquid stream while simultaneously heating or cooling the first liquid stream the first liquid having a bulk composition comprising one or more constituents the first gas having at least one constituent in common with the first liquid and the heat and mass exchanger comprises a plurality of vertical plates that are spaced apart from one another by gaps each plate comprising a front wall that defines a front surface of the plate a back wall that defines a back surface of the plate and parallel channels disposed between the front and back walls each parallel channel being separated from a neighboring channel over at least a portion of the total length of the channel by a web a first liquid flowing within one or more of the channels an impermeable surface attached to one of the front or back surfaces of the plate the impermeable surface comprising an opening that aligns with an opening in the one of the front or back surfaces and through which the first liquid flows an overlaying permeable membrane that is attached at its periphery to the impermeable surface the attached periphery encompassing the opening through which the first liquid flows the permeable membrane being in contact with the first gas stream and a cooled or heated surface in contact with the impermeable surface.

A liquid desiccant heat and mass exchanger HMX for cooling and drying an air stream that uses membranes or hydrophobic micro porous films will be most effective if the surfaces that bring the liquid desiccant into contact with the air stream i.e. the contact surfaces are internally cooled. This then requires that the HMX have three isolated fluid streams flowing through it 1 the process air that is to be dried and cooled 2 the liquid desiccant that is to absorb the water vapor from the air and 3 a coolant that removes the thermal energy that is released as the desiccant absorbs the water vapor. The manifolding of these three fluid streams through the common HMX presents challenges to the designer.

Known heat and mass exchangers for liquid desiccant systems are configured as plate type heat exchangers in which the coolant either a liquid gas or mixture of both flows inside the plates through straight vertical internal channels separated by thin walls or webs the liquid desiccant flows on wicks on the outside of the plates and the process air flows in the gaps between the plates. It has been common in these HMXs to allow the process air to come in direct contact with the desiccant wetted wicks that are on the surface of the plates. It has also been common to use a desiccant distributor for delivering the liquid desiccant to the wicks that is not an integral part of the HMX s plates. U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 826 teaches a liquid desiccant HMX with this configuration in which the coolant is a liquid and an end piece attached to each plate delivers the desiccant to the surface of the plates. This patent also teaches that the plates of the HMX can be flat or curved in a direction that maintains straight internal channels. Similarly U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 430 692 teaches that the plates of the HMX can be flat or curved in a direction that also curves the internal channels. Furthermore U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 638 900 6 079 481 and 7 269 966 teach that the direction of the coolant flowing within the plates can be changed by permitting neighboring channels to communicate with each other through holes in the walls that separate the channels as shown in FIG. 13B of U.S. Pat. No. 7 269 966 or cut outs in the plates that intercept more than one channel as shown in FIG. 5 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 638 900.

In many applications the liquid desiccant is a strong salt solution e.g. a 40 aqueous solution of lithium chloride or calcium chloride . Because these liquid desiccants are corrosive the plates of the HMX are preferably made from a plastic extrusion which does not corrode.

Also in other exemplary embodiments as will be described in more detail the membrane may be excluded.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the plate is a twin wall polypropylene extruded plate with a 4 mm overall thickness although it should be appreciated that other polymers and plate thicknesses could be used to make the extrusion. Furthermore if the desiccant is not corrosive or if a polymer is not appropriate for the application the extrusion may be a malleable metal such as aluminum or copper. The wicks that are applied to the front and back may be made from 10 mil thick films of polystyrene that have been flocked with polyester fibers that are approximately 20 mils long although it should be appreciated that other wicks could be used such as for example a woven natural fibers such as cotton cheese cloth b woven synthetic fibers such as polyester and nylon c knitted fabrics of both natural and synthetic fibers d films of non woven fibers where the fibers are a synthetic polymer glass cellulose or natural fiber and e flock directly adhered to the surface of the plate. Preferably the wick is sufficiently thick to allow the desiccant to flow within the wick and be readily wetted by the liquid desiccant. The wick is also preferably in good thermal contact with the plate so that heat readily flows between the two. The membrane may be a thin microporous hydrophobic polypropylene film. A suitable film may be one sold by Celgard of Charlotte N.C. USA as EZ 2090. Other microporous films and membranes may also be appropriate such as those manufactured by dPoint Technologies of Vancouver BC Canada Dupont of Wilmington Del. USA and W.L. Gore of Newark Del. USA.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention described herein address the way that the liquid desiccant is supplied to and removed from wicks that are covered by a membrane . In particular the vertical channels of the extruded plate may be separated into those that are used for cooling i.e. cooling channels and those that are used for the supply and removal of liquid desiccant to and from the wicks i.e. desiccant channels . Inactive channels may optionally be provided both between the desiccant channels and the cooling channels and at the outer edges of the extruded plate . As shown in in order not to penetrate either the membrane or the bond line between the membrane and the plate desiccant is supplied to the wick through the desiccant channels within the plate. The desiccant flows into these channels through the supply opening in the face of the plate which is located outside of the area enclosed by the bond line and leaves the desiccant channels through the supply orifice which is located within the area enclosed by the bond line and which is located high on the face of the plate. Thus the desiccant is supplied to the wick without penetrating either the membrane or the bond line. This approach to supplying the desiccant to the wick without penetrating either the membrane or the bond line greatly simplifies the manufacturing of a multi plate liquid desiccant HMX by for example eliminating the need to seal a penetration in a membrane that might be only 10 microns thick.

Similar to the supply of desiccant the desiccant is removed from the wick by allowing it to flow through the removal orifices which are located within the area enclosed by the bond line and which are located low on the face of the plate into a desiccant channel and then out of the desiccant channel through the removal opening which is located outside of the area enclosed by the bond line . The desiccant channels are sealed at the top and bottom edges of the extruded plate to prevent desiccant from leaving the plate at these locations. Open ends of desiccant channels may be sealed by for example filling the openings with a sealant such as Dow Corning 734 Flowable Sealant produced by Dow Corning Corporation of Midland Mich. USA or thermally welding the channels closed. It may simplify the fabrication of the plate assembly if the inactive channels are also sealed at their ends. Both the desiccant channels and the inactive channels are shown open at their ends in so that their internal structure is revealed. It may also simplify the fabrication if the channels that are to be sealed i.e. channels and are slightly longer than the channels that are not sealed i.e. channels .

In the embodiment of the invention shown in the desiccant channels that supply the liquid desiccant to the wicks are located on the left side of the extruded plate and the desiccant channels that remove the liquid desiccant from the wicks are located on the right side. It is possible to use the same desiccant channels for the supply and removal of the liquid desiccant by for example 1 locating the supply opening at a location above the supply orifice and 2 sealing the desiccant channels at a location between the supply orifice and the removal orifices so that desiccant cannot flow within the channels between these two orifices.

It is also possible to locate the desiccant channels away from the sides of the extruded plate in which case the supply orifice and or removal orifice would also be located away from the sides of the extruded plate. In this configuration cooling channels would be located on both sides of a set of desiccant channels

In all practical implementations the extruded plate of the liquid desiccant HMX will have many more cooling channels than desiccant channels . Since it is important that the wicks be uniformly wetted by desiccant a means may be provided for insuring that the liquid desiccant that leaves the supply orifice spreads laterally across the entire width of the wick . One means that has been used to insure that the liquid desiccant spreads across the entire width of the wick is to insert a narrow spreader bar located immediately below the supply orifice that presses lightly against the outer surface of the membrane . In a liquid desiccant HMX that has multiple plate assemblies the spreader bars would be lightly squeezed between neighboring plate assemblies. The spreader bar will encourage the liquid desiccant that leaves the supply orifice to first flow horizontally before flowing vertically down in the wick . Preferably the spreader bar does not press too firmly against the membrane or too much pressure will be needed to force the liquid desiccant past it. One approach to insuring that the spreader bar does not press too firmly against the membrane is to make it from a compressible foam.

A second means used to insure that the liquid desiccant spreads across the entire width of the wick includes securely bonding the membrane to the wick at several locations near the top edge of the wick but below the location of the supply orifice . These bonds between the membrane and the wick may be made so that the wick is no longer porous in the immediate vicinity of the bond. These bonds will create a resistance to the downward flow of desiccant in the wick similar to the resistance caused by the spreader bar thereby encouraging the desiccant that leaves the supply orifice to flow horizontally.

This second means to achieving the desired spreading can be simplified by limiting the vertical extent of the wick to the region of plate that is below the locations where the membrane is locally bonded to create a resistance to the downward flow of desiccant. This approach is shown in where the regions in which the membrane is locally bonded are shown as feature . In this approach the membrane is bonded directly to the plate and not to the wick. The flow arrows show the direction of desiccant flow horizontally across the top of the plate and then vertically downward past the bonded regions .

As shown in a molded spreader insert can also be used to insure that the liquid desiccant spreads across the entire width of the wick. For a multi plate liquid desiccant HMX the spreader insert may be positioned at the top of the plate and compressed between two plates. The spreader insert may have a pattern of recesses on both its faces consisting of a nearly rectangular pocket and multiple delivery grooves . The spreader insert is positioned so that the supply orifice in the plate is under the pocket . This insures that a non recessed section of the spreader insert does not press against the supply orifice and block the flow of desiccant out of the supply orifice. As shown in the pocket may have an extended cutout in the vicinity of the supply orifice to insure that spreader insert does not tightly press the membrane against the supply the orifice.

As later discussed in reference to the molded spreader insert may perform the function of sealing the gap between neighboring plates along their top edges. To perform this function the molded spreader insert may have an upper sealing section whose thickness equals the gap between neighboring plates as measured from the bare surface of the plates .

In many applications each plate has a desiccant wetted wick on each of its two faces. In these applications each plate may have a supply orifice on each face. If the supply orifices on each face are in fluid communication with the same desiccant channel the flow rate of desiccant supplied to each face of the plate may differ by more than 20 . This difference in flow rate which can be caused by differences in the size and geometry of the two supply orifices differences in the tension in the membrane that covers the orifices and other possible effects will degrade the performance of the liquid desiccant HMX.

The flow rate of desiccant through the two supply orifices can be made almost equal by laterally offsetting the position of one supply orifice relative to the second so that each orifice is in fluid communication with a different desiccant channel . By designing the system so that the viscous fluid pressure drop of the desiccant as it flows upward in the desiccant channel is large compared to the pressure drop across the supply orifice the desiccant flows in the two desiccant channels will be equalized assuming that the two desiccant channels have nearly identical geometries . In some applications the high viscosity of the desiccant combined with the small cross section of the desiccant channel may provide the required viscous fluid pressure drop. However if this is not the case the two desiccant channels may be modified so that the viscous fluid pressure drop is increased. One possible modification is to use an extruded plate that has desiccant channels of smaller diameter than the cooling channels . Another possible modification is to insert smaller diameter tubes into each of the two desiccant channels . The two tubes may have identical geometries and be potted in place so that the desiccant is forced to flow within the tube and not around it.

The liquid desiccant drains by gravity from the wicks through the removal orifices . It is desirable to use multiple removal orifices or a single large removal orifice so that the desiccant freely drains through the orifice and a back pressure of liquid desiccant is not created which would make the thin flexible membrane bulge . As an example of this approach to decreasing the back pressure behind the membrane three removal orifices are shown on each face of each plate in .

The pressure in the liquid desiccant at the removal orifice may be less than that of the air flowing over the membrane. Under these conditions the membrane can seal against the removal orifice thus acting as a flapper valve that shuts off the flow of desiccant through the removal orifice.

Several approaches to preventing the membrane from sealing against the removal orifice may be implemented. All approaches maintain a gap between the membrane and the removal orifice that allows desiccant to freely flow through the removal orifice. In one approach which is shown in a woven screen like insert is located under the membrane . The thickness of the screen like material is less than half the width of the air gap between neighboring plates so that the screen like material is not crushed when plates are assembled into a multi plate stack . The screen like insert may extend the full width of the wick and be positioned at the bottom of the wick directly above the lower bond line that seals the membrane to the plate . The height of the screen may be such that it covers the removal orifices extending only slightly past the removal orifices so that it only minimally interferes with mass exchange between the desiccant and the air flowing across the membrane.

A second approach to preventing the membrane from sealing the removal orifice includes insertion of a narrow rigid spacer between the membrane and the wick referred to as a membrane spacer that prevents the membrane from being drawn by suction up against the wick or the removal orifice. A membrane spacer with a U profile that has been successfully used is shown in . As shown in this figure the membrane spacer extends almost the entire width of the area covered by the membrane and it is located vertically below the removal orifices .

In many applications the flow of air between plate assemblies is laminar. As is well known heat and mass transfer coefficients in laminar flow are low. The rates at which heat and mass are exchanged between the liquid desiccant and the air that flows on the other side of the membrane can be increased by forcing the laminar flow to mix. In this regard as shown in a mixing spacer element can be used both to maintain a uniform gap between neighboring plates and to mix the laminar flow. The mixing spacer element may be made from a twin wall extruded plate. As shown in sections of the front wall and back wall are removed from the twin wall extruded plate to expose the webs . The section of the extruded plate where the front wall and back wall is not removed may form a spine to which the exposed webs are all attached and which also acts as a spacer when it is positioned between two plate assemblies. The exposed webs are mechanically deformed so that they are twisted around an axis that is aligned with the internal channels of the spacer to produce the helical vanes . Each helical vane imparts a small vortical flow to the air as it flows through and past the mixing spacer element. The vortical flow that is imparted to the air mixes the laminar flow. The vortical flow will persist for a longer length if neighboring helical vanes are configure so that they impart vortical flow with opposite spins i.e. a vortical flow with a clockwise rotation has neighboring vortical flows with counterclockwise rotations .

For the liquid desiccant HMX shown in the air that is to be dried and cooled flows horizontally from right to left in the gaps between the plates. The non mixing spacer element is positioned at the left edge of each gap where the air exits from the HMX . These plain spacer elements may be made from a twin wall extruded plate similar to that shown in that has a thickness equal to the width of the air gap between plate assemblies. The twin wall extruded plate is cut perpendicular to the internal channels into narrow strips that have a width preferably greater than the width of the air gap so that they cannot accidently rotate around their long axis. When installed between plate assemblies the internal channels within the spacer elements are aligned with the direction of the air flow.

The mixing spacer elements may be positioned at the right edge and middle of the gap between the plates. These mixing spacer elements both maintain the gap between the plates and mix the laminar air flow.

The number of non mixing spacer elements and mixing spacer elements that are positioned in each air gap may depend on the width and flatness of the plates and the requirement to mix the laminar flow.

In a practical implementation of the multi plate liquid desiccant HMX the stack of plate assemblies are lightly compressed between a front end plate which is referred to by reference number in and back end plate . A liquid desiccant inlet pipe and liquid desiccant outlet pipe are sealed to the front face of the leftmost plate and also compressed between the front end plate and back end plate. Liquid desiccant is fed to and collected from the multi plate liquid desiccant HMX through these pipes.

The leftmost plate may be modified so that the supply orifice on its front face is sealed thus preventing desiccant from flowing on the front face of the leftmost plate. With the supply orifice sealed the gap between the front end plate and the leftmost plate assembly cannot exchange mass with the air and air blockage strips are inserted in this gap to prevent the flow of air.

As shown in in addition to the front end plate and back end plate a complete assembly for a multi plate liquid desiccant HMX that could be installed in a building may have process mounting flanges to which the process air ducts through which the air to be cooled and dried would flow may attach and cooling mounting flanges to which the cooling air ducts through which the air and or water that cools the liquid desiccant HMX may flow may attach.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described in the context of an evaporatively cooled liquid desiccant HMX i.e. a mixture of air and water flows within the cooling channels typically making a single pass through the extruded plate . It should be appreciated that with appropriate modifications the liquid desiccant HMX may be liquid cooled with water or other fluid flowing through the cooling channels.

Two or more plate assemblies that are liquid cooled can be stacked in an arrangement similar to that shown in for plate assemblies that are evaporatively cooled to create a multi plate liquid cooled HMX. This liquid cooled HMX may use spacer elements and lower face seals appropriately modified to allow the liquid coolant to enter and leave the plate assemblies .

Exemplary embodiment of the present invention in which the channels of a single extruded plate are segregated into two or more groups with each group transporting a different liquid gas or liquid gas mixture and in particular where at least one liquid flows both through the channels and on the external face of the plate can be applied to systems other than a liquid desiccant HMX with membrane covered wicking surfaces. In particular exemplary embodiments of the present invention may include multiple extruded plates with wicks on the external surfaces of the plates but without membranes covering the wicks. In this application a feature may be added to force the liquid desiccant that exits from the supply orifice into and across the wick. As shown in this feature may be a distribution plate with grooves on its face. The distribution plate may cover the supply orifice of an extruded plate and extend horizontally across the top of the wick . The distribution plate may be narrow compared to the height of the wick so that it covers only a small fraction of the wick. The grooves on the face of the distribution plate may direct desiccant from the supply orifice to several discharge points across the top of the wick. Similar to desiccant distributor shown in for a plate assembly that uses both a wick and a membrane it may be advantageous to limit the height of the wick so that the distribution plate presses directly against the extruded plate and the liquid desiccant enters the wick only after passing through the grooves .

The function of grooves on the face of the distribution plate to direct the liquid desiccant from the supply orifice to several discharge points may be duplicated by other configurations of recesses on the face of the distribution plate.

For a liquid desiccant HMX without membrane covered wicks the desiccant that drains off the wick may be allowed to flow directly into a collection sump located below the HMX. Alternately as shown in a removal orifice in the face of the extruded plate located near the bottom of the wick may be used to direct the desiccant into a desiccant channel within the extruded plate. An film sheet or cover plate may be placed over the bottom portion of the wick extending to a height above the location of the removal orifice . The film sheet or cover plate may be sealed to the extruded plate on three sides i.e. the bottom left and right sides . The liquid desiccant that flows down in the wick may flow behind this film sheet or cover plate and leave this space through the removal orifice . The woven screen like insert that prevents the membrane in from sealing against the removal orifices may also be used to prevent the film sheet or cover plate from sealing against the removal orifices in . The woven screen like insert may also create a thin gap between the upper edge of the film sheet or cover plate and the underlying wick to insure that the liquid desiccant does not flow out of the wick onto the film sheet or cover plate. It should be appreciated that other means may be used to create a thin gap between the upper edge of the film sheet or cover plate and the underlying wick. In particular a film or sheet may be thermoformed to have a pattern of ridges or protuberances that provide the required gap. Also a pattern of grooves or recesses may be machined or molded into the face of a cover plate to provide the required gap.

As a liquid desiccant HMX exemplary embodiments of the invention are conveniently applied with air flowing horizontally between spaced apart vertical plates . In this application it is convenient to implement the invention with the internal channels and vertically oriented so that the lower face seals and upper face seals do not interfere with the flow of air. However there may be applications including but not limited to those in which a gas flows vertically between the spaced apart vertical plates where the internal channels and are horizontally oriented.

In some applications particularly where the multi plate HMX is disassembled into individual plates it may be desirable not to bond lower face seals to the faces of the plate assemblies as is preferably done when the supply openings and removal openings for the desiccant are on the faces of the plate assemblies. As shown in the lower face seals may be eliminated in an embodiment of the invention that supplies and removes liquid desiccant to and from the desiccant channels through the channel openings at the edges of the extruded plates . In this configuration the openings may not be sealed closed. Instead supply tubes and collection tubes may be inserted into one or more desiccant channels in each extruded plate and the supply collection tubes may be sealed in place. Desiccant may be either supplied to or removed from the desiccant channels through these supply collection tubes. The supply tubes may be connected to a common supply manifold and the collection tubes may be connected to a common collection manifold.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention may be applied in situations that do not involve liquid desiccants. In particular distillation processes such as membrane distillation have the need to remove a liquid i.e. the product condensate from the space between a membrane and a plate that is being cooled by the feed brine. Exemplary embodiments of the invention described herein may be configured so that the feed brine flows in the central channels of an extruded plate and the product condensate flowing on the outside of the extruded plate is removed from between the membrane and the plate through removal orifices in the face of the plate that intercept outer channels within the plate that are isolated from the channels through which the feed brine flows.

Other distillation processes that condense liquid on an extruded plate but do not use a membrane may similarly use exemplary embodiments of the invention to collect the condensed liquid from the plate similar to the preceding description for the collection of liquid desiccant from a liquid desiccant HMX that does not use membranes .

Furthermore exemplary embodiments of the invention have been applied in situations where the extruded plate is cooled by either a liquid gas or liquid gas mixture. It should be appreciated that exemplary embodiments of the invention may be applied where the extruded plate is heated by either a liquid gas or liquid gas mixture. Such an application may be a liquid desiccant HMX that is used to regenerate the desiccant.

In industry there are many processes in which a vapor is exchanged between a liquid that flows on contact surfaces and a gas that flows between the contact surfaces and in which the absorption or desorption of the vapor by the liquid is either endothermic or exothermic. Exemplary embodiments of the invention described herein provides a convenient means to either internally heat or cool the contact surface using an internally flowing heat transfer fluid while supplying a second liquid to the outside of the contact surface for the purpose of either absorbing a vapor from the gas or desorbing a vapor to the gas. An example of this type of process would be the absorption of carbon dioxide from air or flue gas that flows over an internally cooled contact surface that is wetted by an amine or other liquid that absorbs carbon dioxide.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention can also be applied to an evaporatively cooled fluid cooler that is implemented as multiple plates. In this application water or another fluid to be cooled flows within a first set of channels for example channel in and the evaporating water is supplied to and collected from the outside of the plates via a second set of channels for example channel . An evaporatively cooled fluid cooler would be an example of the invention in which the same type of fluid flows through both sets of channels for example both channels and in although the two flows may be kept separated.

Various aspects of the invention can also be applied to a thermal desalination system that uses a membrane or hydrophobic microporous film which for simplicity may also be referred to as a membrane to isolate seawater or other impure water from the potable water that is being produced. This thermal desalination system which is commonly referred to as membrane distillation may be implemented with plates that have the feed seawater flowing within them a membrane covering their outer surfaces and heated seawater flowing on the side of the membrane that is away from the plate either in direct contact with the membrane or with a narrow gap of non condensible gas separating the heated seawater from the membrane. In this type of desalination system there is a continuous flow of water molecules across the membrane from the warmer seawater to the outer surface of the plate which is cooled by the feed seawater flowing within it. Similar to the implementation of the liquid desiccant HMX the plates for the thermal desalination system may have multiple internal channels divided into a first set that is used to collect the potable water that is generated between the membrane and the plate and a second set through which the feed seawater flows. However unlike the liquid desiccant HMX a gas does not flow in the gaps between plates and a liquid is not supplied to the space between the membrane and the plate.

Various exemplary embodiments of the invention have been explained in applications that use thin flat twin wall extruded plates typically but not necessarily made from plastic. Twin wall extruded plates are now commonly available with very thin walls. However it should be appreciated that exemplary embodiments of the invention may be applied to a thin flat plate with internal parallel channels manufactured by a means other than extrusion. As an example common corrugated cardboard is a flat plate with internal parallel channels. Although corrugated cardboard made from paper sheets may be difficult to implement a similarly configured plate made from two flat sheets that are bonded to a central corrugated sheet where the sheets are either plastic or metal may be used instead of twin wall extruded plates. Also exemplary embodiments of the invention may be readily implemented with thin plates that are curved.

In all embodiments in which the plate of the HMX is made from plastic the effectiveness of the HMX can be improved if the plastic plate is made from a polymer that has a high thermal conductivity i.e. a thermal conductivity greater than 1.0 W m C. Polymers with high thermal conductivity are available from Cool Polymers Inc. of North Kingstown R.I.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described in applications where a first liquid typically a desiccant is delivered to the outside of a plate from a first set of channels within the plate a first gas flows in the gap between neighboring plates and a second liquid a second gas or a liquid gas mixture flows in a second set of channels within the plate. Two aspects of the invention can be applied more broadly. In particular many applications where a first gas or first liquid flows between parallel surfaces and the first gas or first liquid exchanges mass and or thermal energy with the surfaces or with a second gas or second liquid flowing on the other sides of the surfaces the exchange of mass and or thermal energy could be made more efficient by using the mixing spacers shown in .

Also there are applications where a liquid must be delivered in equal amounts to both faces of a plate or to separate surfaces that are attached to each face of the plate and the plate has internal parallel channels. These applications may benefit from the use of two different internal channels for the delivery of liquid to each face in a way that a viscous flow pressure drop within the channel equalizes the two flows. shows an exemplary embodiment where a liquid is delivered in equal amounts to separate surfaces which are impermeable films and that are attached to front and back faces of the plates and the impermeable films have a membrane covering them and bonded to them at the periphery of the membrane. Liquid can enter and or exit the space between the impermeable film and the membrane only through openings in the impermeable film only one of which is exposed in the openings being aligned with supply orifices and removal orifices in the plates . This embodiment is important because the liquid that is supplied to the impermeable film is contained within a confined space defined by the impermeable film and the membrane that is bonded to the impermeable film. In this configuration the liquid within the space between the impermeable film and the membrane may be cooled or heated by the surface of a heat exchanger that is in contact with the impermeable film but that is not an integral part of the plate or plates that supply and or collect the liquid to the impermeable film. The assembly composed of the impermeable film and overlaying membrane may employ one of the means previously described to spread the liquid over the surface of the impermeable film. Also the assembly composed of the impermeable film and overlaying membrane can be applied to heat and mass exchangers that use common internal channels within a plate to deliver liquid to each face of the plate or which deliver liquid to only one face of the plate. It should be appreciated that the impermeable film could have a wick on the side that is wetted by a liquid to help spread the liquid and the membrane could be replaced by a microporous hydrophobic film. Finally it should be appreciated that embodiments of the invention that use a membrane or microporous hydrophobic film such as the one shown in could bond the membrane or microporous hydrophobic film to an impermeable film with openings that align with supply orifices and or removal orifices in the plate when the impermeable film is bonded to the plate as opposed to bonding the membrane to the plate .

Now that embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is to be construed broadly not limited by the foregoing specification.

