---

title: Session-triggered pushing of group communication data
abstract: Exemplary techniques for sending data packages, such as media objects, during group communication sessions between wireless telecommunication devices, such as push-to-talk communication sessions, are disclosed. In one embodiment, the data packages, such as discrete data packages, are queued at the transmitting wireless communication device and then sent to other group members upon establishment of channels for group communications to the group members. The data packages can also be queued at the group communication server prior to being sent to a target device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929939&OS=08929939&RS=08929939
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08929939
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 689 690 entitled Session Triggered Pushing of Group Communication Data filed on Jan. 19 2010 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to wireless telecommunication systems. More particularly the present invention relates to techniques for sharing various forms of media during group communication sessions between wireless telecommunication devices.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless communication devices often have data processing and computing capabilities and can accordingly send and receive software programs in addition to voice across the telephone network.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless communication device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless communication device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. Existing PTT systems have advantages over traditional cellular systems because they have faster call setup times e.g. setup times ideally in the range of 1 second as opposed to cellular voice channels that can take more than 5 seconds to establish. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage his or her PTT button and he or she will have the floor. Generally speaking the PTT system uses standard voice over internet protocol VoIP technologies. Voice information is sent in digital form over IP based data networks. In PTT scenarios instead of using the standard cellular infrastructure a call is formed by combining separate point to point connections between each IP endpoint in the network. Initiating the PTT system generates a call to the target device. The call originator s voice can be sent through the carrier s network to the target handset.

In existing PTT systems member devices will only communicate voice data between the devices during a communication session. It is difficult to include other data in the group communication because of the size of the data and the device resources necessary to handle non voice data. The existing wireless communication devices therefore send non voice data such as data packages through specific data channels established between the device and a wireless communication network.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method for a wireless communication device to economically send data packages and other data packages to others during a PTT or other group communication session.

The present system and method provide for the queuing and forwarding of data packages intended to be sent in a group communication session between wireless communication devices. An exemplary embodiment describes a method that includes but is not limited to receiving at a wireless communication device a request to send a data package to a target over a group communication channel determining whether the group communication channel is open at the wireless communication device and in response to determining that the group communication channel is not open at the wireless communication device performing selectively storing the data package in a queue configured to store a plurality of data packages determining whether a memory size of the plurality of data packages stored in the queue is greater than a predetermined memory size threshold in response to determining that the memory size of the plurality of data packages stored in the queue is not greater than the predetermined memory size threshold determining whether an indication that the group communication channel has been opened is received at the wireless communication device and in response to receiving an indication that the group communication channel has been opened sending from the wireless communication device all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target. The queued data packages do not necessarily all have to be intended for the same target member wireless communication device of the communication group.

An exemplary embodiment includes a method that includes but is not limited to receiving at a server a data package from an originating wireless communication device over a group communication channel wherein the data package is intended to be sent to one or more of target group members of a communication group determining whether the group communication channel is open from the server to all of the target group members selectively storing the data package in a queue in response to determining that the group communication channel is not open from the server to all of the target group members wherein the queue is configured to store a plurality of data packages determining whether a memory size of the plurality of data packages stored in the queue is greater than a predetermined memory size threshold in response to determining that the memory size of the plurality of data packages stored in the queue is not greater than the predetermined memory size threshold determining whether the group communication channel with all of the target group members has been opened and sending all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target group members in response to determining that the group communication channel with all of the target group members has been opened.

An exemplary embodiment includes a a method that includes but is not limited to receiving at a wireless communication device a request to send a data package to a target over a group communication channel determining whether the group communication channel is open at the wireless communication device selectively storing the data package in a queue configured to store a plurality of data packages in response to determining that the group communication channel is not open at the wireless communication device identifying all data packages stored in the queue that are intended for the target determining whether a memory size of all data packages stored in the queue that are intended for the target is greater than a predetermined memory size threshold establishing the group communication channel in response to determining that the memory size of all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target is greater than the predetermined memory size threshold and sending to the target from the wireless communication device all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target over the established group communication channel.

An exemplary embodiment includes a method which includes but is not limited to receiving at a server a data package from an originating wireless communication device over a group communication channel wherein the data package is intended to be sent to one or more of target group members of a communication group determining whether the group communication channel is open from the server to all of the target group members selectively storing the data package in a queue configured to store a plurality of data packages in response to determining that the group communication channel is not open from the server to all of the target group members identifying all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target group members determining whether a memory size of all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target group members is greater than a predetermined memory size threshold establishing the group communication channel from the server to the target group members in response to determining that the memory size of all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target group members is greater than the predetermined memory size threshold and sending all data packages stored in the queue intended for the target group members over the established group communication channel.

In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that they allow a wireless communication device to economically send data packages and other data packages to others during a PTT communication session. Furthermore the method of queuing and forwarding bundles of data packages can also be performed at the group communication server if the system is so embodied. The system and method thus have industrial applicability as they can be implemented on a group communication system and prevent the uneconomical opening of group communication channels unless they can be optimally utilized for data package transmission. The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

In this disclosure the terms communication device wireless telephone wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device wireless communication device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term group communication is intended to encompass a half duplex or virtual half duplex communication channel used for one to many communications such as push to talk half duplex communications but can also embrace one to one communication where there are two only two group members present and communicating. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of use. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several drawings and the articles a and the include plural references unless otherwise specified in the description. It can be appreciated by one of skill in the art that one or more various aspects of the disclosure may include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced aspects of the present disclosure the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

Embodiments may execute on one or more computers. and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the disclosure may be implemented. One skilled in the art can appreciate that computer systems disclosed herein can have some or all of the components described with respect to computer of .

The term circuitry used throughout the disclosure can include hardware components such as hardware interrupt controllers hard drives network adaptors graphics processors hardware based video audio codecs and the firmware software used to operate such hardware. The term circuitry can also include microprocessors configured to perform function s by firmware or by switches set in a certain way or one or more logical processors e.g. one or more cores of a multi core general processing unit. The logical processor s in this example can be configured by software instructions embodying logic operable to perform function s that are loaded from memory e.g. RAM ROM firmware and or virtual memory. In example embodiments where circuitry includes a combination of hardware and software an implementer may write source code embodying logic that is subsequently compiled into machine readable code that can be executed by a logical processor. Since one skilled in the art can appreciate that the state of the art has evolved to a point where there is little difference between hardware software or a combination of hardware software the selection of hardware versus software to effectuate functions is merely a design choice. Thus since one of skill in the art can appreciate that a software process can be transformed into an equivalent hardware structure and a hardware structure can itself be transformed into an equivalent software process the selection of a hardware implementation versus a software implementation is trivial and left to an implementer.

Referring now to an exemplary computing system is depicted. Computer system can include a logical processor e.g. an execution core. While one logical processor is illustrated in other embodiments computer system may have multiple logical processors e.g. multiple execution cores per processor substrate and or multiple processor substrates that could each have multiple execution cores. As shown by the figure various computer readable storage media can be interconnected by a system bus which couples various system components to the logical processor . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In example embodiments the computer readable storage media can include for example random access memory RAM storage device e.g. electromechanical hard drive solid state hard drive etc. firmware e.g. FLASH RAM or ROM and removable storage devices such as for example CD ROMs floppy disks DVDs FLASH drives external storage devices etc. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable storage media can be used to store data such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges etc.

The computer readable storage media provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer system such as during start up can be stored in firmware . A number of applications and an operating system may be stored on firmware storage device RAM and or removable storage devices and executed by logical processor .

Commands and information may be received by computer through input devices which can include but are not limited to keyboards and pointing devices. Other input devices may include microphones joysticks game pads scanners or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the logical processor through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or universal serial bus USB . A display or other type of display device can also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter which can be part of or connected to a graphics processor . In addition to the display computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers. The exemplary system of can also include a host adapter Small Computer System Interface SCSI bus and an external storage device connected to the SCSI bus.

Computer system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer. The remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically can include many or all of the elements described above relative to computer system .

When used in a LAN or WAN networking environment computer system can be connected to the LAN or WAN through a network interface card NIC . The NIC which may be internal or external can be connected to the system bus. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer system or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections described here are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Moreover while it is envisioned that numerous embodiments of the present disclosure are particularly well suited for computerized systems nothing in this document is intended to limit the disclosure to such embodiments.

Referring now to it illustrates an example wireless telecommunication device that can be a wireless communication device with a PTT button that opens the direct communication to a target device e.g. an endpoint associated with an IP address. The wireless communication device is also shown as having a graphics display . The wireless communication device can include a computer platform that can handle voice and data packets execute software applications and transmit information across a wireless network. The computer platform includes among other components a processor such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a RISC processor such as those that implement the ARM architecture. The processor is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless communication device and is not normally upgradeable. The processor or other processor executes an application programming interface API layer which includes the resident application environment and can include the operating system loaded on the processor . The resident application environment interfaces with any resident programs in the memory e.g. a computer readable storage medium of the wireless communication device . An example of a resident application environment is the binary runtime environment for wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM for wireless communication device platforms.

As shown here the wireless communication device can be a wireless communication telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information about the data package in order to generate a preview as is more fully described herein.

The computer platform can also include a direct communication interface that can open a direct communication channel. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless communication device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless communication device . The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

Continuing with the description of additionally depicted is a diagram of one embodiment of the software layers of the group application client that can include but is not limited to PTT functionality and data package functionality. While the embodiment shown herein is implemented in a PTT session the present system can be utilized in any group communication session setup for transmission of voice and or data substantially simultaneously among group members. In an embodiment the computer platform in the wireless communication device environment can include a series of software layers developed on top of the Wireless communication Station Modem MSM and the Advanced Wireless communication Subscriber Software AMSS developed by QUALCOMM . In this example the underlying MSM chipset can implement the software protocol stack for the entire suite of CDMA communication technologies that include CDMA2000 1X and CDMA2000 1xEV DO. In this example the AMSS can be configured to support a wireless communication operating system layer which in an embodiment is BREW also developed by QUALCOMM . The wireless communication operating system layer can provide an application programming interface for chip or device specific operations while providing an isolation layer that eliminates direct contact to the AMSS and any OEM software on the computer platform. The wireless communication operating system layer can enable application development that uses wireless communication device features without having to rewrite the application each time a new release of the device specific software is released.

In this example the wireless communication operating system can include a PTT client that is configured to offer access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT client can include all the functions required to enable wireless communication operating system applications such as the media client . In an embodiment the PTT client can maintain access to PTT services respond to communication requests process all PTT aware wireless communication operating system applications requests for PTT services process all outgoing PTT requests collect and package vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The media client can be a wireless communication operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The media client can provide access to media services through an external interface such as a media aware API that is an application that may be developed entirely as a wireless communication operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The media client can service requests from the user and inform the user of the result of any group directed media request. The media client can additionally be configured to handle incoming notifications that indicate there is data package to download from a media server of and described in more detail below. For example the media client can be configured in one embodiment to download data packages immediately or in other embodiments the media client can be configured to download the data package at a predetermined time period e.g. at 10 00 pm daily or it can be configured to prompt the user via the PTT UI to determine whether and or when to download the file. Other push to talk applications or applications that can receive and transmit data across the group communication channel can also be resident on the platform.

In an embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as wireless communication telephone can send a flag to at least the communications server that can have components similar to computer of which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network . The flag in this example can be used by the server to determine that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The communication server can share this information with a set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or it can also share this with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A media server that can include components similar to computer of can additionally include circuitry for a file management server that can be present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The communications server can establish point to point IP PTT channels between devices in the group . A PTT channel can be established through a half duplex channel true or virtual between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and or and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication server can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network .

The communications server can also inform the wireless telecommunication device and of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the communications server is shown here as having the attached media server of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system can include at least one wireless communication device such as wireless communication telephone that can be a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices. The wireless communication devices in this example can be configured to communicate with each other or communicate as a group across a wireless communication network . In addition at least one of the wireless communication devices can be configured to selectively send data packages to other members of the communication group . At least one communications server is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The communications server is further configured to selectively receive data packages from a sending wireless communication device such as wireless communication telephone of a communication group .

The media server can be configured to receive the data packages from the wireless communication device such as wireless communication phone and selectively permit members of the communication group to access the stored data packages across the wireless communication network . In an embodiment data packages can include but is not limited to pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like documents and or presentations. The data packages can additionally include streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . Also the data packages could be half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The size of the data package files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system can use a media server to store the data packages such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications. Alternatively in one embodiment if the data packages are stored at the media server the media server can be configured to send a hypertext link to the originating device or the target wireless communication devices of the communication group . The hypertext link in this example can provide a link to the stored group directed media at the media server . Upon receipt of data packages by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the communications server can send an acknowledgement indicating to the wireless communication device and that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the data package.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the communications server at the time of sending a data package e.g. a target list and thus the media server can be configured to send or store the data package to or for the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending data packages the wireless communication device and can request member data for a communication group from the communications server and the server can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device and . In one embodiment the communications server can filter the potential communication groups available based upon their member devices capability to received data packages.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device and can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send data packages during the group communication in the same communication session either to all members or a subset thereof. Alternately the data packages can be sent independently of the group communication session.

Continuing with the description of the communications server s in this example can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . When a wireless communication device access the wireless data network to obtain services the PDSN can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting server AAA to authenticate the wireless communication devices and or . The AAA can be coupled to a database operable to store information such as user accounts and privileges. Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF can be located in the base station . The wireless network can control messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network in this example can communicate with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the wireless network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones A through D by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and wireless communication telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of data packages which are discrete segments of computer code such as applications web pages applets MIDlets multi media picture games and simple data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group such as depicted by the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However such direct group communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the communication server itself but the communication server must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

The following are a series of flowcharts depicting operational procedures. The flowcharts are organized such that the initial flowcharts present implementations via an overall viewpoint. Those having skill in the art can appreciate that the style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a flowchart s presenting an overall view and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent flowcharts generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various operational procedures.

Continuing with the description of the operational procedure operation shows determining that at least one group communication channel is not established with the target wireless communication device. For example the processor can determine that a push to talk communication channel does not exist between the originator e.g. device and a target e.g. device or communications server of from for example information obtained from the PTT client . In a specific example media client can be executed and the PTT client can receive a request for information that identifies whether a PTT channel is opened with the target. The PTT client can be run and a signal indicative of the fact that such a channel is not established can be returned to the media client .

Turning to operation it shows selectively storing the data package in a queue. In an embodiment processor can execute instructions and store the data package can be stored in a queue e.g. memory . For example storing the data package in the queue can include storing a pointer to the data package in an area of memory identified as the queue or it can include physically storing a copy of the data package in an area identified as the queue. In this example instead of establishing a PTT channel the data package can be stored and sent at a later point when a communication is established to one or more or the targets.

Operation shows determining that a group communication channel has been established with the target wireless communication device. For example sometime after the data package has been stored in the queue a PTT channel may be established between the originator e.g. device and some other PTT enabled target such as the communications server or another device e.g. device . In a specific example the media client could have configured the processor to listen for connections made between the originator and the target. In this example when a channel is opened with the target the media client can receive information indicating that a channel has been opened.

In a specific example a signal indicating that the device has the floor can be used to notify the media client that a PTT session has been established with the target. When a PTT channel is requested the communications server can receive a call setup request message indicating that a user of device or wants to establish a push to talk session. The call setup request can contain for instance the target device s address and an indication that data packages are to be shared and information that identifies the media server that stores media for the wireless communication device . The call setup request may also be sent with a DataOverSignaling Access channel message. In this example the communications server can be configured to perform PTT call setup functions including locating the target opening up IP channels between various IP endpoints in the network applying call restrictions selecting a vocoder and location and or assign a media server to handle storing any data packages uploaded during the PTT session. The media server can then be notified that a media PTT session is being created and the identities of both the originator device and the target device. In this example the communications server can include circuitry operable to determine whether wireless communication device is allowed to send receive data packages and or whether the target is authorized to send receive data packages. If for example both devices are allowed to send receive data packages and the target is available for a PTT session the communications server can send the acknowledgment message to the originating wireless communication device and the originating wireless communication device can obtain the floor.

Operation shows sending all queued data packages to at least the group communication server via the established group communication channel. For example the originating device can send the data package to the target via the established PTT channel. In a specific example the media client can be executed by the processor and the processor can send the data package to the target via a transceiver of the device . Since the data package is sent during a PTT channel that is already established the cost of setting up sessions on the network is reduced.

In a specific example the data package can be sent in conjunction with voice during a PTT talk spurt. In response to receiving the floor grant message the media client can request permission send data that includes voice and the data package. That is in this example there is only a single floor control mechanism that is used for both the PTT call and sharing media and when the channel is opened the media client can send media during a talk spurt. The media client can request that the PTT client add a data package to the existing PTT call. The add media request can contain an indication that the media is to be shared using the same floor control mechanism as the PTT Client . The PTT Client can request that the communications server add a new media type to the existing call. The communications server can verify that the target can support the new media type. After the new media type has been successfully added to the PTT call the data package can be sent.

In another specific example the media client can be configured to send a data package to the target using a different floor control mechanism than the PTT call. That is the data package can be sent independently from voice data over a media PTT channel. In an embodiment when the media client receives a signal indicating that a channel has been opened with the target the media client can send the data package. In this scenario the user of wireless communication device can participate in a PTT call and when the channel is opened the processor can be interrupted and run media client instructions that direct it to send the data package from the queue. The media client can be configured to determine that the data package is intended to be shared using a separate floor control mechanism than the PTT call i.e. independent of the floor control mechanism being used for the PTT call and send a request to the PTT client to add a new media type to the existing PTT call. The add media request can contain an indication that the data is to be shared using a different floor control mechanism than the PTT call. The PTT Client can send a request to the communications server to add a new media type to the existing call. The communications server can be configured to verify that one or more of the call participants can support the new media type and then the communications server can send a notification to the call participants indicating that a new media type is being added to the call. In an embodiment the notification to the call participants can contain a floor identifier for a separate media floor in addition to a new destination port number on the media server for the distribution of the data package.

After the new media type is successfully added to the PTT call the processor can configure the media client to request permission to send group directed media to the target. The PTT request from the PTT client can contain the floor identifier assigned to the group directed media floor. The communications server can verify that the data floor is available prior to granting the floor request. The PTT client can then notify the media client that the floor request was granted and the data package can be sent to the target.

Turning now to it shows an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including additional operations and . In an embodiment sending the data package can include but is not limited to sending the media object to a media server. For example in an embodiment the target can be the media server . In this example processor can execute instructions indicative of the media client and send one or more packets of information indicative of a data package to a media server . The media server can then be configured to either send the data package to the target or store the data package.

Continuing with the description of operation illustrates sending all queued data packages to a target wireless communication device. For example in an embodiment the target can be another wireless communication device e.g. device . The communications server can establish a PTT channel between the originating device and the target device e.g. device . In this example when the PTT channel is established the media client can be executed by the processor and the processor can obtain the data package from the queue and send it to the target via a transceiver of the device .

As shown by operation illustrates that in an embodiment the queue includes a plurality of data packages. For example in an embodiment the queue e.g. an area of memory can include multiple data packages that can be addressed to one target and or multiple targets. In this example when the PTT channel is established the media client could receive information from the PTT client indicating that a channel has been opened and the media client can be executed by the processor and the processor can obtain the data packages from the queue.

In an example embodiment when a PTT channel is opened between the originating device and the media server all the data packages addressed to different target devices e.g. devices and can be uploaded to the media server . In this example the media server can sort the data packages by the target s addresses and store them in database so that they can be sent at a later time. In another example data packages addressed to a single target can be uploaded and stored in database or data packages associated with a subset of targets can be uploaded.

In an example embodiment when a PTT channel is opened between the originating device and remote wireless communication device e.g. device all the data packages addressed to the target can be sent via the PTT channel. In this example the communications server can handle the call setup functions and a copy of the data package s can be stored by the media server .

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operation which shows determining that the memory size of a plurality of queued data packages is less than a predetermined memory size threshold. In an embodiment the processor can execute instructions that configure it to determine how large the data packages in the queue are e.g. by adding up the memory size of each data package and compare this value to a predetermined amount. In an embodiment if the total size of the memory objects is in the queue less than the predetermined value then the device can be configured to wait until a PTT channel is opened before the data packages are sent. For example the media client could then configure the processor to listen for when a PTT channel is established. In a specific example the predetermined threshold could be set to 5 megabytes. In this case if 3 data packages are added to the queue and each data package is 1 megabyte in size then the total would be less than the predetermined threshold and a determination can be made to wait to send the data packages until a PTT channel is opened can be made.

Referring to it depicts an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operation which shows receiving information that identifies the predetermined memory size threshold. For example in an embodiment the predetermined threshold can be based on information that is received from the network. Circuitry of the network can send a signal to wireless communication device on a command channel which indicates the current network threshold value. The wireless communication device can execute instructions to set a value in a data structure that can be used by the media client to determine whether the threshold has been reached. In an embodiment the information can be set in accordance with information in a user profile of a user associated with the wireless communication device a static value that assigned based on the location of the base station controller a static value that set by a network administrator or it can be a function of some other variable such as for example the time of day day of the week etc.

Referring to it depicts an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operation which shows that in an embodiment the predetermined memory size threshold is based on current network conditions. For example current network condition based information can be used to dynamically set the memory size threshold value. For example the network conditions can include a value that reflects the number of data channels that are available for a given base station. In another example the current network conditions can include a value that reflects the average number of data channels that are in use across a geographic location e.g. a base station an area code a zip code a city etc. In an embodiment the predetermined memory size threshold can be a value that is a function of the number of data channels that are in use. When the number of in use data channels increases so can the threshold. In an embodiment a table can be available for each base station controller that indicates various thresholds in relationship to how many data channels are available. In one example if 80 of the data channels are in use then the threshold could be 5 megabytes and if 20 of the data channels are in use the threshold can be 1 megabyte. Other methods for determining the optimal point to send the queued data can be used such as the number of the data packets held in memory criteria of importance of the data packets held in memory such as a priority ranking scheme or other triggers that would be apparent to one of skill in the art.

Turning now to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure that includes operations and . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation shows receiving at a wireless communication device a request to send a data package to a target over a group communication channel. For example and referring to the processor can execute instructions indicative of the PTT aware UI and a user interface can be displayed by display . The user input interface of wireless communication device e.g. a keyboard touchpad mouse trackball etc. can receive a request to send data packages over a push to talk communication channel. In a specific example a user may wish to quickly send a video captured by his or her device a member of his or her group and thus decide to send the video via push to talk instead of by email.

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining that the size of the data package is less than a predetermined size and storing the data package in a queue. For example the processor can execute instructions that configure it to determine how large the data package is and compare the size of the data package to a predetermined size value. In this example the object can be less than the size limit and instead of sending the data package to the target it can be stored in a queue and sent at a later point. For example storing the data package in the queue can include storing a pointer to the data package in an area of memory identified as the queue or it can include physically storing a copy of the data package in an area identified as the queue.

Operation shows determining by the mobile device that a predetermined amount of time has elapsed. In an example embodiment when the data package e.g. a pointer to the object is stored in a queue an internal timer can be set to expire after a predetermined amount of time e.g. 10 seconds. The predetermined value can be set by a network administrator and can be based on various conditions. In an example embodiment when the timer expires an interrupt can be sent to processor and it can execute interrupt handler instructions.

Operation illustrates upon a group communication channel being open sending from the wireless communication device the data package to the target. After the predetermined amount time elapses the data package can be sent to the target e.g. another wireless communication device and or a media server . For example in a specific embodiment the interrupt handler instructions can be executed by processor and processor can execute the media client . The processor can send the data package to the target via a transceiver of the device. In this example delay can be introduced into the process of sending a data package until for example the predetermined amount of time elapses or a PTT channel is established with the target. That is in an embodiment an interrupt can be set to expire at the end of a predetermined time period but if a PTT channel is established prior to the interrupt being sent the media client can be run and the interrupt can be cleared. In this case since a PTT channel was opened for another reason it could be used to upload the data package.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including the additional operations and . Operation shows sending an email to an email address associated with the target wireless communication device the email including the data package. In this example embodiment the target can be associated with an email account. In this example when the timer expires the processor can execute instructions obtain an email address from an electronic address book stored in memory of the wireless communication device . In this example the processor can execute instructions that configure it to obtain an email address for the target from the address book and pass information to an email client that can generate a message that includes the data package. The email can then be sent to the address associated with the target device .

Operation of shows sending a multi media message to the target wireless communication device the multi media message including the data package. In this exemplary embodiment when the timer expires the processor can execute instructions a multi media message client which can generate a multi media message that includes the data package and send the multi media message to the target.

Operation of shows to a media server. In this exemplary embodiment the target can be the media server . For example the processor can execute instructions indicative of the media client and can send one or more packets of information indicative of the data package to a media server . The media server can be configured to send the data package to the target e.g. device via a PTT channel or via some other delivery mechanism e.g. email multi data package message etc.

Operation of shows the sending the data package via a group communication channel. For example the originating device can send the data package to the target via the established PTT channel after the predetermined amount of time has elapsed. That is a PTT channel can be established with the target after the predetermined amount of time elapses. In a specific example an interrupt can be generated by a timer and the interrupt handler code can be executed by the processor which configures it to run the media client . The media client can be executed and the processor can send the data packages to the target via a transceiver of the device. When a PTT channel is requested the communications server can receive a call setup request message indicating that a user of device wants to establish a push to talk session. The call setup request can contain for instance the target device s address and an indication that data packages are to be shared and information that identifies the media server that stores media for the wireless communication device .

Operation of shows the predetermined amount of time is set in accordance with current network conditions. For example in an embodiment current network condition based information can be used to dynamically set a value indicative of the predetermined amount of time. For example the predetermined amount of time can increase as pressure on the network s resources increases. In one example embodiment the pressure on the network can be calculated from information that reflects the number of data channels that are available for a given base station. In other example a value that reflects the average number of data channels that are in use across a geographic location can be used.

Operation of shows that the predetermined size is set in accordance with information stored in a user profile associated with the wireless communication device. For example in an embodiment user profile information can define a priority level for the user that operates device . This information can be stored in a database coupled to the AAA and or on the wireless communication device e.g. in a SIM card for example. In an embodiment certain types of users can have different predetermined size thresholds. For example premium accounts or accounts that are associated with emergency services providers can have lower thresholds than other users.

Referring now to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations and . Operation begins the operational process and operation depicts storing a plurality of data packages in a queue each data package having a memory size. For example in an embodiment memory can store a plurality of data packages or pointers to the locations of data packages and for each data package information that identifies a target address can also be stored. In this example each data package can have a size for example one data package may have a size of 1 megabyte and another data package may have a size of 3 megabytes. In an example embodiment a processor can be used to store the data packages in memory . In this example the processor could execute instructions that direct it to store a copy of a data package or a pointer to a location of the data package in a specific area of memory reserved for the queue and the processor can modify values in a data structure associated with the queue to indicate that the data package has been stored.

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining that the total memory size of the plurality of data packages in the queue is larger than a predetermined memory size threshold. For example processor can determine that the total memory size of the plurality of data packages in the queue is larger than a predetermined memory size threshold. For example in an embodiment the processor can run instructions when a data package is added to the queue that direct it to for example add the size of each data package in the queue to obtain a total and compare the total to a predetermined value. If the total is larger than the predetermined memory size threshold then information indicative of the result of the operation can be stored in memory and sent to for example the media client .

In an embodiment a data structure can be stored in memory that includes a total for each target that has data packages in the queue. As a new data package is added the processor can execute instructions to determine if the target s address is in the data structure. If it is then its total can be updated otherwise the target can be added to the list. In an embodiment the processor can either be configured to determine that the total memory size of all the objects in the queue is greater than a predetermined value or it can be configured to determine that the total memory size of all data packages associated with a specific addressee is greater than a predetermined value. More generally the determination can be based on the total memory size of the data packages in the queue or it can be based on the total memory size of the data packages in the queue per target. In this or another embodiment the processor can be configured to keep a total for each target and a total for the entire queue. When a data package is added to the queue the processor can run instructions that check the total value of all data packages in the queue and check the total value associated with each target.

Operation shows establishing in response to determining that the memory size of the plurality of data packages in the queue is larger than the predetermined memory size threshold a push to talk channel with a target. In an example after the determination is made a transceiver of device can establish a push to talk communication channel with a target using techniques similar to those described above. In a specific example the media client can receive a signal and the processor can execute instructions that send a signal to the push to talk client . Push to talk client instructions can then be executed and a PTT channel can be opened between the device and the target e.g. another device and or the media server . The data packages can then be sent from the device via the PTT channel.

In a specific example the target can be the media server . The PTT client can configure the transceiver of device to send all or a portion of the data packages in the media queue to the media server where the data packages can be stored in a database . For example in an embodiment where the total memory size of all the data packages in the queue is greater than a predetermined value the PTT client can be configured to send all the data packages to the media server where they can be made available to devices such as device and or . In the same or other embodiments if a total value associated with a target is greater than the predetermined value the PTT client can configure the transceiver of the device to open a PTT channel with the target.

Turning now to operation where is shown the step of sending the plurality of data packages to the target via the push to talk channel. For example the originating device can send the data packages to the target via the established PTT channel. In a specific example the media client can be executed by the processor and it can obtain the data packages from the queue and send them to the target via a transceiver of the device. In this example since the data packages are grouped together the cost on the network of setting up multiple sessions just to send data packages is reduced.

Continuing with the description of operation shows storing a third data package addressed to a third target in the queue receiving a signal from a base station controller allocating a push to talk channel with the third target and sending the third data package to the third target. In an embodiment that includes operation a data package can be stored in the queue that is addressed to a third target. In a specific example the data package may be less than a predetermined size. After a period of time device may receive a signal from a base station controller indicating that a PTT channel has been established with the third target. For example an operator of the third device may have opened a PTT channel with the device or the operator of the device may have decided to open a PTT channel with the third device. In this example the device can then send the third data package to the third target via the channel. In a specific example the media client can be configured to listen for when channels are opened and if one is opened with the third target an interrupt can be sent to the processor . Processor can then execute instructions that send the data package to the third device.

Operation of depicts that in an embodiment wherein the predetermined memory size threshold is set in accordance with current network conditions. For example current network condition based information can be used to dynamically set the memory size threshold value. For example the network conditions can include a value that reflects the number of data channels that are available for a given base station. In another example the current network conditions can include a value that reflects the average number of data channels that are in use across a geographic location e.g. a base station an area code a zip code a city etc. In an embodiment the predetermined memory size threshold can be a value that is a function of the number of data channels that are in use. When the number of in use data channels increases so can the threshold.

Operation of depicts that in an embodiment wherein the predetermined memory size threshold is set in accordance with information in a user profile associated with the mobile device. For example in an embodiment user profile information can define a priority level for the user. This information can be stored in a database coupled to the AAA and or on the wireless communication device e.g. in a SIM card for example.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations and . Operation shows sending the second data packages to the specific target via a push to talk communication channel. For example the originating device can send the data packages to the second target via a PTT channel after the predetermined amount of time has elapsed. In a specific example an interrupt can be generated by a timer and the interrupt handler code can be executed by the processor which configures it to run the media client . The media client can be executed and the processor can send the data packages to the second target via a transceiver of the device. When a PTT channel is requested the communications server can receive a call setup request message indicating that a user of device wants to establish a push to talk session. The call setup request can contain for instance the target device s address and an indication that data packages are to be shared and information that identifies the media server that stores media for the wireless communication device .

Operation shows wherein the predetermined amount of time is set in accordance with current network conditions such as the likely availability of communication channels costs of setting up group communications or general traffic at the device. For example in an embodiment current network condition based information can be used to dynamically set a value indicative of the predetermined amount of time. For example the predetermined amount of time can increase as pressure on the network s resources increases. In one example embodiment the pressure on the network can be calculated from information that reflects the number of data channels that are available for a given base station. In other example a value that reflects the average number of data channels that are in use across a geographic location can be used.

Turning now to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations . Operation starts the procedure and operation shows queuing a plurality of data packages at least a portion of the plurality of data packages addresses to a specific target. For example a plurality of data packages or pointers to the locations of data packages can be queued and for each data package information that identifies a target address can be stored. In this embodiment at least some of the data packages can be addressed to a specific target such as device . In an example embodiment a processor can be used to queue the data packages.

Continuing with the description of operation depicts determining that a push to talk channel has been established with the specific target. For example sometime after the data packages have been queued a PTT channel may be established between the originator e.g. device and the specific target device e.g. device . In this example the media client could have configured processor to listen for connections made between the originator and the target. In this example when a channel is opened with the target the media client can receive information indicating that a channel has been opened. Similar to that described above a floor grant message received from a communications server can be used to indicate that a PTT session has been established with the specific target. When such a signal is received the processor can be interrupted and directed to execute the media client .

Continuing with the description of operation depicts sending the portion of the plurality of data packages to the specific target via the push to talk channel. For example the originating device can send the data packages to the target via the established PTT channel over a transceiver. In a specific example when the processor detects that a channel has been established between the originator and the specific device an interrupt can be generated that directs the processor to execute media client . The processor can send the data packages to the target via a transceiver of the device. In this example since the data packages are sent during a PTT channel that is already established the cost of setting up sessions on the network is reduced.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure including operations and . Operation depicts determining that the portion of the plurality of data packages had a total memory size that is greater than a predetermined size threshold. For example processor can determine that the total memory size of the portion of data packages addressed to the specific target is larger than a predetermined memory size threshold. For example in an embodiment the processor can run instructions when a data package is queued that direct it to for example add the size of the data package to a total value of queued data packages to obtain a total and compare the total to a predetermined value. If the total is larger than the predetermined memory size threshold then information indicative of the result of the operation can be stored in memory and sent to for example the media client .

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining that a second portion of the plurality of data packages has been queued for a predetermined amount of time the second portion addressed to a second target and sending the second portion to the second target. In an embodiment that includes operation data packages that are addressed to a second target can be queued. When the data packages addressed to the second target are queued a timer can be set to expire after a predetermined amount of time e.g. 5 minutes. If the timer expires an interrupt can be sent to processor and it can execute specific interrupt handler instructions that discover that data packages addressed to the second target have been in the queue for the predetermined amount of time. The processor can then send the queued data packages to the second target via a transceiver of the device. In this example delay can be introduced into the process of sending a data package until for example the predetermined amount of time elapses or a PTT channel is established with the target.

Operation of shows that the predetermined memory size threshold is set in accordance with information in a user profile associated with the mobile device. For example in an embodiment user profile information can define a priority level for the user that operates device . This information can be stored in a database coupled to the AAA and or on the wireless communication device e.g. in a SIM card for example.

Operation shows sending at least one data package of the plurality to a target device. For example at least one of the data packages can be sent to a target device. For example when the PTT channel was setup by a communications server a media server could have been notified and added to the communications channel. The media server in this example could be used to store data packages and send them to the target.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations and . Operation shows sending at least one data package of the plurality via the push to talk communication channel. For example in an embodiment a processor of the communications server can setup the PTT channel between the originator and the target using techniques describe above and can send one or more packets of information indicative of at least one data package.

Continuing with the description of operation shows at least one data package in the queue via an email. In this exemplary embodiment communications server or the media server can send an email that includes the data package to the target. For example the wireless network can include a computer system or process that can generate emails. In this example a user profile can include a table which maps telephone addresses to email accounts. In this example a processor can execute instructions that configure it to obtain an email address for the target and pass information to an email client that can generate a message that includes the data package. The email can then be sent to the address associated with the target device.

Continuing with the description of operation shows sending a hypertext link associated with the data package to the target device. In an embodiment the media server can store the data packages in the database and generate hypertext links for the data packages. In this example the hypertext links can then be sent to the targets and when an operator of the target clicks on the hypertext link the media server can receive the request obtain the data package associated with the hypertext link and send the data package to the target.

Turning now to it depicts an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations through . Operation begins the procedure and operation illustrates receiving by a computer system a data package from an originating device the data package addressed to a target device the data package having a memory size. In an embodiment a media server e.g. a computer system that can include components similar to computer system of can receive a data package from an originating device e.g. device . In this example the data package can be addressed to a target e.g. it can include the telephone number of device and the data package can have a quality that identifies its size.

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining by the computer system that the memory size is less than a predetermined memory size threshold. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the computer system e.g. circuitry can determine how large the data package is and compare this value to a predetermined value. In an embodiment if the size of the memory object is less than the predetermined value then the media server can be configured to wait until a PTT channel is opened with the target before sending the data package. In a specific example the predetermined threshold could be set to 5 megabytes. In this case if the data package is 1 megabyte in size then the total would be less than the predetermined threshold.

Continuing with the description of operation shows storing by the computer system the data package in a queue. In this example the media server can determine that the size of the data package is less than the predetermined threshold the data package or a pointer to the data package can be stored in a queue e.g. memory of the media server . In this example instead of establishing a PTT channel the data package can be stored and sent at a later point.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations . Operation shows determining by the computer system that a predetermined amount of time has elapsed and sending by the computer system an email to the target device the email including the data package. In an exemplary embodiment when the data package is queued a timer can be set to expire after a predetermined amount of time. If the timer expires an interrupt can be sent to processor of media server and the processor can execute specific interrupt handler instructions. For example in a specific embodiment the interrupt handler instructions can be executed by processor and it can send the data package to the target via an email.

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining by the computer system that a predetermined amount of time has elapsed and sending by the computer system a multi media message to the target device the multi media message including the data package. In an example embodiment when the data package is stored queued a timer can be set to expire after a predetermined amount of time. If the timer expires an interrupt can be sent to processor of media server and the processor can execute specific interrupt handler instructions. In this exemplary embodiment the processor can execute instructions that generate a multi media message that includes the data package. For example the wireless communication device can pass the address of the target and the data package to multi media message client which can generate a multi media message that includes the data package. The multi media message can then be sent to the address associated with the target.

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving by the computer system a second data package from the originating device the second data package addressed to the target device the second data package having a memory size determining by the computer system that a total memory size value of data packages stored in the queue is greater than the predetermined memory size threshold and sending data packages in the media queue to the target device via a push to talk communication channel. For example processor can determine that the total memory size of the plurality of data packages in the queue is larger than a predetermined memory size threshold. For example in an embodiment a processor of a computer system can run instructions when a data package is added to the queue that direct it to for example add the size of each data package in the queue to obtain a total and compare the total to a predetermined value. If the total is larger than the predetermined memory size threshold then information indicative of the result of the operation can be stored in memory. After the determination is made the data packages can be sent to the target via an established PTT channel.

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining by the computer system that a push to talk communication channel has been opened between the originating device and target device and sending the data package to the target device. For example sometime after the data package has been stored in the queue a PTT channel may be established between the originator e.g. device and a target device. In this example the communications server can receive a call setup request message identifying the target and the originator. In this example the communications server can send a signal to the media server which can determine that a connection has been made between the originator and the target. The media server can signal the communications server indicating that a data package is queued that is addressed to the target and the communications server can setup a channel that includes media handling capabilities and send the data package to the target device.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations . Operation shows sending a request to setup a push to talk channel with a target to a remote computer. In an example embodiment an originating device e.g. device can establish a PTT channel with a target device e.g. device . For example a user of device can press a PTT button that directs the wireless communication device to send a PTT call setup request to communications server . In this example the communications server can setup a PTT channel between the originator and the target e.g. the communications server can allocate separate point to point connections between each IP endpoint in the network.

Continuing with the description of operation shows determining that a data package was previously queued the data package addressed to the target. For example after a PTT channel has been setup between the originator and the target a processor can determine that a data package was previously queued the data package being addressed to the target. In a specific example processor can be interrupted and the media client can be executed. The processor can determine that a data package addressed to the target has been queued by checking information in for example a data structure stored in memory .

Turning now to operation it illustrates sending via the push to talk channel the data package to the target device. For example a transceiver of device can send one or more packets of information indicative of the data package over the push to talk channel to the target device. In a specific example the processor can run media client and information can be sent to the transceiver. The transceiver can then send the data package to the target via the network .

Operation illustrates determining that a predetermined amount of time has elapsed and sending the at least one data package addressed to the second target. For example in an example embodiment when the data package is queued a timer can be set to expire after a predetermined amount of time. The predetermined value can be set by a network administrator and can be based on various conditions. In an example embodiment when the timer expires an interrupt can be sent to processor and interrupt handler instructions can be executed by processor . The interrupt handler instructions can direct processor to execute the media client and the processor can send the data package to the target via a transceiver of the device. In this example delay can be introduced into the process of sending a data package until for example the predetermined amount of time elapses or a PTT channel is established with the any target.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via examples and or operational diagrams. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

