---

title: Picolinamide inhibitors of kinases
abstract: 

wherein R, R, R, A, B, Z, n, and m are defined in the description. The present invention relates also to compositions containing said compounds which are useful for inhibiting kinases such as ALK and methods of treating diseases such as cancer.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08859546&OS=08859546&RS=08859546
owner: AbbVie Inc.
number: 08859546
owner_city: North Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120120
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 434 998 filed Jan. 21 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention pertains to compounds which inhibit the activity of anaphastic lymphoma kinase ALK methods of making the compounds compositions containing the compounds and methods of treatment using the compounds.

Signaling through receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs regulates and fine tunes many processes including cell growth proliferation differentiation and apoptosis. The improper activation of RTKs is involved in the pathogenesis growth and metastasis of many cancers. The receptor tyrosine kinase ALK Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase is a member of the insulin receptor superfamily that was initially identified from the t 2 5 p23 q35 translocation in anaplastic large cell lymphoma ALCL Fischer P. et al. Blood 72 234 240. 1988 . The protein product of this translocation is ALK fused to nucleophosmin NPM Morris et al. 1994 . When fused to ALK the dimerization domain of NPM results in constitutive dimerization and activation of ALK reviewed in Chiarle R. Nature reviews 8 11 23 2008 . Once activated ALK recruits several adaptor proteins and stimulates multiple signaling pathways known to mediate tumor cell growth and survival including STAT3 PLC RAS ERK1 2 and PI3K AKT Bai R. Y. et al. Molecular and cellular biology 18 6951 6961 1998 Bai R. Y. et al. Blood 96 4319 4327 2000 Chiarle R. et al. Nature medicine 11 623 629 2005 Pulford K. et al. Journal of cellular physiology 199 330 358 2004 . The dysregulation of ALK is highly oncogenic as it is sufficient to induce cell transformation in a several immortalized cell lines Bischof D. et al. Molecular and cellular biology 17 2312 2325 1997 Fujimoto J. et al. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 93 4181 4186 1996 and to form tumors in animal models Chiarle R. et al. Blood 101 1919 1927 2003 Kuefer M. U. et al. Blood 90 2901 2910 1997 . Moreover NPM ALK drives tumor formation proliferation and survival in ALCL reviewed in Duyster J. et al. Oncogene 20 5623 5637 2001 .

More recently ALK translocations have been detected in 5 of non small cell lung cancers NSCLC . Similar to ALK translocations in ALCL the fusion proteins in NSCLC display constitutive ALK activity and drive tumor growth and survival Soda et al. Nature 448 561 566 2007 Soda et al. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 105 19893 19897 2008 . NSCLC tumors harboring ALK translocations are mutually exclusive from K Ras or EGFR aberrations and predominantly occur in younger patients that are non smokers Rodig et al. Clin Cancer Res 15 5216 5223 2009 Shaw et al. J Clin Oncol 27 4247 4253 2009 Wong et al. Cancer 115 1723 1733 2009 . In addition to chromosomal rearrangements activating point mutations and amplifications have been reported in a subset of sporadic and familial neuroblastomas further expanding the spectrum of tumors dependent on ALK activity Chen et al. Nature 455 971 974 2008 George et al. Nature 455 975 978 2008 Janoueix Lerosey et al. Nature 455 967 970 2008 Mosse et al. Nature 455 930 935 2008 . Neuroblastomas with ALK genetic aberrations also are dependent on ALK for proliferation and survival and cells expressing ALK containing activating mutations form tumors in animal models.

Inhibitors of RTKs have the potential to cause lethality in cancerous cells that are reliant on deregulated RTK activity while sparing normal tissues. Thus small molecule inhibitors of ALK would be beneficial for therapeutic intervention in ALCL NSCLC neuroblastoma and other cancers that are dependent on ALK for growth and survival.

The present invention has numerous embodiments. One embodiment of this invention therefore pertains to compounds that have formula I 

Also provided are pharmaceutically acceptable compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt in combination with a pharmaceutically suitable carrier.

One embodiment is directed to a method of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of formula I . Another embodiment pertains to a method of decreasing tumor volume in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of formula I .

This detailed description is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants invention its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the invention in its numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. This description and its specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only. This invention therefore is not limited to the embodiments described in this patent application and may be variously modified.

Unless otherwise defined herein scientific and technical terms used in connection with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear however in the event of any latent ambiguity definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. With reference to the use of the words comprise or comprises or comprising in this patent application including the claims Applicants note that unless the context requires otherwise those words are used on the basis and clear understanding that they are to be interpreted inclusively rather than exclusively and that Applicants intend each of those words to be so interpreted in construing this patent application including the claims below. For a variable that occurs more than one time in any substituent or in the compound of the invention or any other formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds which can be isolated in a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all combinations herein that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are drawn from left to right.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent typically containing from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl iso amyl and hexyl and the like.

The term alkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethenyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 propenyl 1 4 pentadienyl 1 4 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 butenyl and the like.

The term alkynyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethynyl 2 propynyl 3 propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl and the like.

The term carbocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkyl partially saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. aryl hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A carbocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A carbocyclyl may be a single ring structure which typically contains from 3 to 8 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of such single ring carbocyclyls include cyclopropyl cyclopropanyl cyclobutyl cyclobutanyl cyclopentyl cyclopentanyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexanyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl and phenyl. A carbocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic carbocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. In a spirocyclic carbocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. An example of a spirocyclic carbocyclyl is spiropentanyl. In a bridged carbocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. Examples of bridged carbocyclyls include bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 enyl and adamantanyl. In a fused ring carbocyclyl system two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of two or three fused ring carbocyclyls include naphthalenyl tetrahydronaphthalenyl tetralinyl indenyl indanyl dihydroindenyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and decalinyl.

The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms. A cycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. A cycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic or contain more than one ring. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls.

The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic carbocyclyl containing from 6 to 14 carbon ring atoms. An aryl may be monocyclic or polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . In the case of polycyclic aromatic rings only one ring the polycyclic system is required to be unsaturated while the remaining ring s may be saturated partially saturated or unsaturated. Examples of aryls include phenyl naphthalenyl indenyl indanyl and tetrahydronapthyl.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent e.g. alkyl alkenyl alkynyl or cycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix C C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C C cycloalkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl ring containing from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms.

The term hydrogen alone or in combination with another term s means a hydrogen radical and may be depicted as H.

The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I .

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen radical is in the place of hydrogen radical on a carbon or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent in which at least one non hydrogen radical is in the place of a hydrogen radical on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro radical and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro radicals. It should be recognized that if there are more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen radical may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical. To illustrate further if an amino nitrogen is described as being optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals then a primary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals whereas a secondary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to only 1 non hydrogen radical.

The prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl means an alkyl substituent in which at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl and 1 1 1 trifluoroethyl. It should be recognized that if a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

The prefix perhalo indicates that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is replaced with independently selected halogen radicals i.e. each hydrogen radical on the substituent is replaced with a halogen radical. If all the halogen radicals are identical the prefix typically will identify the halogen radical. Thus for example the term perfluoro means that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with a fluorine radical. To illustrate the term perfluoroalkyl means an alkyl substituent wherein a fluorine radical is in the place of each hydrogen radical.

The term oxy alone or in combination with another term s means an ether substituent and may be depicted as O .

The term alkyloxy alone or in combination with another term s means an alkylether substituent i.e. O alkyl. Examples of such a substituent include methoxy O CH ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy.

Similarly the term heterocyclylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl carbocyclyl.

Similarly the term heterocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O alkyl carbocyclyl.

The term thio or thia alone or in combination with another term s means a thiaether substituent i.e. an ether substituent wherein a divalent sulfur atom is in the place of the ether oxygen atom. Such a substituent may be depicted as S . This for example alkyl thio alkyl means alkyl S alkyl alkyl sulfanyl alkyl .

The term thiol or sulfhydryl alone or in combination with another term s means a sulfhydryl substituent and may be depicted as SH.

The term thiocarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means a carbonyl wherein the oxygen atom has been replaced with a sulfur. Such a substituent may be depicted as C S .

The term heterocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated i.e. heterocycloalkyl partially saturated i.e. heterocycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. heteroaryl ring structure containing a total of 3 to 14 ring atoms. At least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. A heterocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A heterocyclyl may be a single ring which typically contains from 3 to 7 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocyclyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl thiofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl furazanyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxatriazolyl including 1 2 3 4 oxatriazolyl or 1 2 3 5 oxatriazolyl dioxazolyl including 1 2 3 dioxazolyl 1 2 4 dioxazolyl 1 3 2 dioxazolyl or 1 3 4 dioxazolyl oxathiazolyl oxathiolyl oxathiolanyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl thiopyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl pyridinyl azinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl 1 2 diazinyl pyrimidinyl 1 3 diazinyl or pyrazinyl 1 4 diazinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including 1 3 5 triazinyl 1 2 4 triazinyl and 1 2 3 triazinyl oxazinyl including 1 2 oxazinyl 1 3 oxazinyl or 1 4 oxazinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxathiazinyl 1 2 4 oxathiazinyl 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazinyl 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl 1 4 2 oxadiazinyl or 1 3 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl and diazepinyl.

A heterocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocyclyls. In a spirocyclic heterocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. In a bridged heterocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. In a fused ring heterocyclyl two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of fused ring heterocyclyls containing two or three rings include indolizinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b pyridinyl and pteridinyl. Other examples of fused ring heterocyclyls include benzo fused heterocyclyls such as indolyl isoindolyl isobenzazolyl pseudoisoindolyl indoleninyl pseudoindolyl isoindazolyl benzpyrazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl 1 benzazinyl or isoquinolinyl 2 benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl 1 2 benzodiazinyl or quinazolinyl 1 3 benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl including chromanyl or isochromanyl benzoxazinyl including 1 3 2 benzoxazinyl 1 4 2 benzoxazinyl 2 3 1 benzoxazinyl or 3 1 4 benzoxazinyl and benzisoxazinyl including 1 2 benzisoxazinyl or 1 4 benzisoxazinyl .

The term heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated heterocyclyl.

The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic heterocyclyl containing from 5 to 14 ring atoms. A heteroaryl may be a single ring or 2 or 3 fused rings. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl and 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as benzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as benzopyranyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and benzoxazinyl.

A prefix attached to a multi component substituent only applies to the first component. To illustrate the term alkylcycloalkyl contains two components alkyl and cycloalkyl. Thus the C C prefix on C C alkylcycloalkyl means that the alkyl component of the alkylcycloalkyl contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms the C C prefix does not describe the cycloalkyl component. To illustrate further the prefix halo on haloalkyloxyalkyl indicates that only the alkyloxy component of the alkyloxyalkyl substituent is substituted with one or more halogen radicals. If halogen substitution may alternatively or additionally occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as halogen substituted alkyloxyalkyl rather than haloalkyloxyalkyl. And finally if the halogen substitution may only occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as alkyloxyhaloalkyl. 

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of the compound being administered sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated.

The term modulate refers to the ability of a compound to increase or decrease the function or activity of a kinase. Modulation as used herein in its various forms is intended to encompass antagonism agonism partial antagonism and or partial agonism of the activity associated with kinase. Kinase inhibitors are compounds that e.g. bind to partially or totally block stimulation decrease prevent delay activation inactivate desensitize or down regulate signal transduction. Kinase activators are compounds that e.g. bind to stimulate increase open activate facilitate enhance activation sensitize or up regulate signal transduction.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The subject is defined herein to include animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula I

A is phenyl naphthyl indenyl Ccycloalkyl 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl 5 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl or 5 7 membered heteroaryl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo CN NO C alkyl C haloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R and S O NRR wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R and S O NRR 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo CN OH Calkyl C haloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy C thioalkoxy amino Calkylamino and Cdialkylamino 

Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl C alkyl Ccycloalkyl C alkyl heteroaryl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl OR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R and S O NRR wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl alone or part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three R 

R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with halo CN OH Calkyl C haloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy amino Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C O OH C O Calkyl C O NH C O NH Calkyl or C O N Calkyl 

R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl heteroaryl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl RRN C alkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moeity is optionally substituted with halo CN OH Calkyl C haloalkyl Calkoxy Chaloalkoxy amino Calkylamino Cdialkylamino C O OH C O Calkyl C O NH C O NH Calkyl or C O N Calkyl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R and S O NRR wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl 

In one embodiment of formula I Z is Calkylene. In another embodiment Z is CH CHCH CHCHCH or CHCHCHCH . In another embodiment Z is CH CH CHCH CH CH CH CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH CH CHCHCH CH 

 C CH CHC CH C CH CH CHCHC CH CHC CH CH or C CH CHCH . In another embodiment Z is CH CHCH CHCH CHCH CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CHCH CHCH CHCH CH CHCHCH CHCH C CHCH CHC CHCH C CHCH CH CHCHC CHCH CHC CHCH CH or C CHCH CHCH . In yet another embodiment Z is CH CHCH CH CH or C CH .

In another embodiment of formula I Z is Calkenylene. In yet another embodiment of formula I Z is CH CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CH CH CH CH CH CHCH or CHCH CH CH . In another embodiment of formula I Z is CH CH CHCH CH CH CH CH or CH CHCH . In yet another embodiment of formula I Z is CH CH or CH CH .

In another embodiment of formula I A is a 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl. In another embodiment of formula I A is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. In yet another embodiment of formula I A is dihydrofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl pyrrolinyl imidazolinyl pyrazolinyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl dihydropyranyl oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl or oxazinyl.

In one embodiment of formula I A is a 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In another embodiment A is pyridyl pyrazyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl or isothiazolyl.

A is optionally substituted with R wherein n is 0 1 2 or 3. In one embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of halo CN NO C alkyl C haloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R and S O NRR wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R and S O NRR.

In another embodiment of formula I n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris defined above. In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula I n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo.

In one embodiment of formula I n is 1 or 2 and Ris C O NRR C O OR NRC O R NRS O R or S O NRR wherein Rand Ris defined above. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula I B is phenyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl or pyrazolinyl. In another embodiment of formula I B is phenyl.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula II 

In one embodiment of formula II the Calkylene is CH CHCH CHCHCH or CHCHCHCH . In another embodiment the Calkylene is CH CH CHCH CH CH CH CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH CH CHCHCH CH C CH CHC CH C CH CH CHCHC CH CHC CH CH or C CH CHCH . In another embodiment the Calkylene is CH CHCH CHCH CHCH CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CHCH CHCH CHCH CH CHCHCH CHCH C CHCH CHC CHCH C CHCH CH CHCHC CHCH CHC CHCH CH or C CHCH CHCH . In yet another embodiment the Calkylene is CH CHCH CH CH or C CH .

In one embodiment of formula II A is phenyl naphthyl or Ccycloalkyl. In another embodiment of formula II A is phenyl.

In one embodiment of formula II n is 0. In another embodiment of formula II n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula II . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula II n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula II m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula II m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy. In another embodiment of formula II Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl C alkyl Ccycloalkyl C alkyl heteroaryl C alkyl and heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl alone or part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three R wherein Ris defined above. In yet another embodiment of formula II Rheterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one R and Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl heterocycloalkyl Calkyl C O R and S O Rwherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl and wherein Ris described in formula I .

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of formula IIa 

In one embodiment of formula IIa n is 0. In another embodiment of formula IIa n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula IIa . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula IIa n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula IIa m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula II m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy.

In one embodiment of formula IIa Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl and heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl. In one embodiment of formula IIa Ris Calkyl.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula III 

In one embodiment of formula III the Calkylene is CH CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CH CH CH CH CH CHCH or CHCH CH CH . In another embodiment of formula III Z is CH CH CHCH CH CH CH CH or CH CHCH . In yet another embodiment of formula III Z is CH CH or CH CH .

In one embodiment of formula III n is 0. In another embodiment of formula III n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula III . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula III n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula III m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula III m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy. In another embodiment of formula III Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl C alkyl Ccycloalkyl C alkyl heteroaryl C alkyl and heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl alone or part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three R wherein Ris defined above. In yet another embodiment of formula III Rheterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one R and Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl heterocycloalkyl Calkyl C O R and S O Rwherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl and wherein Ris described in formula I .

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of formula IIIa 

In one embodiment of formula IIIa n is 0. In another embodiment of formula IIIa n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula IIIa . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula IIIa n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula IIIa m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula II m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy.

In one embodiment of formula IIIa Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl and heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl. In one embodiment of formula IIIa Ris Calkyl.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula IV 

In one embodiment of formula IV n is 0. In another embodiment of formula IV n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula IV . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula IV n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula IV m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula IV m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy. In another embodiment of formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl C alkyl Ccycloalkyl C alkyl heteroaryl C alkyl and heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl alone or part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three R wherein Ris defined above. In yet another embodiment of formula IV Rheterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one R and Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl heterocycloalkyl Calkyl C O R and S O Rwherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl and wherein Ris described in formula I .

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of formula IVa 

In one embodiment of formula IVa n is 0. In another embodiment of formula IVa n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula IVa . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula IVa n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula IVa m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula IVa m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy.

In one embodiment of formula IVa Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl and heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl. In one embodiment of formula IVa Ris Calkyl.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula V 

In one embodiment of formula V A is phenyl pyridinyl or pyrazyl. In another embodiment of formula V A is phenyl.

In one embodiment of formula V n is 0. In another embodiment of formula V n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula V . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula V n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula V m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula V m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy. In another embodiment of formula V Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl C alkyl Ccycloalkyl C alkyl heteroaryl C alkyl and heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the Ccycloalkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl alone or part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three R wherein Ris defined above. In yet another embodiment of formula V Rheterocycloalkyl which is optionally substituted with one R and Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl heterocycloalkyl Calkyl C O R and S O Rwherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl and wherein Ris described in formula I .

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of formula Va 

In one embodiment of formula Va n is 0. In another embodiment of formula Va n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo OR Calkyl Chaloalkyl or CN wherein Ris described in formula V . In another embodiment n is 1 or 2 Ris OR wherein Ris H or Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula Va n is 1 2 or 3 and Ris halo. In yet another embodiment Ris NRS O Ror S O NRR Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Rand Rare independently Calkyl Chaloalkyl aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl moiety is optionally substituted with Calkyl.

In one embodiment of formula Va m is 0. In yet another embodiment of formula Va m is 1 and Ris selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl and Calkoxy.

In one embodiment of formula Va Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Chaloalkyl amino C alkyl Calkylamino Calkyl Cdialkylamino Calkyl hydroxy C alkyl Calkyl Calkoxy Ccycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl heteroaryl Calkyl and heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein the aryl Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl alone or as part of another moiety are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from halo and Calkyl. In one embodiment of formula Va Ris Calkyl.

Specific embodiments contemplated as part of the invention include but are not limited to compounds of formula I for example 

Compounds of this invention may contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms in the R or S configuration wherein the terms R and S are as defined in Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 10. Compounds having asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms with equal amounts of R and S configurations are racemic at those atoms. Atoms having excess of one configuration over the other are assigned the configuration in excess preferably an excess of about 85 90 more preferably an excess of about 95 99 and still more preferably an excess greater than about 99 . Accordingly this invention is meant to embrace racemic mixtures and relative and absolute diastereoisomers of the compounds thereof.

Compounds of this invention may also contain carbon carbon double bonds or carbon nitrogen double bonds in the E or Z configuration wherein the term E represents higher order substituents on opposite sides of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond and the term Z represents higher order substituents on the same side of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond as determined by the Cahn Ingold Prelog Priority Rules. The compounds of this invention may also exist as a mixture of E and Z isomers.

Additional geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. For example the invention contemplates the various geometric isomers and mixtures thereof resulting from the disposition of substituents around a cycloalkyl group or a heterocycle group. Substituents around a cycloalkyl or a heterocycle are designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Compounds of this invention may also exist as tautomers or equilibrium mixtures thereof wherein a proton of a compound shifts from one atom to another. Examples of tautomers include but are not limited to keto enol phenol keto oxime nitroso nitro aci imine enamine and the like. Tautomeric forms are intended to be encompassed by the scope of this invention even though only one tautomeric form may be depicted.

This invention also is directed in part to all salts of the compounds of formula I . A salt of a compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s properties such as for example enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or other solvents. Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being in use in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable and or physiologically compatible. The term pharmaceutically acceptable is used adjectivally in this patent application to mean that the modified noun is appropriate for use as a pharmaceutical product or as a part of a pharmaceutical product. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts commonly used to form alkali metal salts and to form addition salts of free acids or free bases. In general these salts typically may be prepared by conventional means by reacting for example the appropriate acid or base with a compound of the invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of formula I can be prepared from an inorganic or organic acid. Examples of often suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric carbonic sulfuric and phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids. Specific examples of often suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilic acid mesylate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sulfanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid beta hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate oxalate palmoate pectinate 2 naphthalesulfonate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts of the compounds of formula I include for example metallic salts and organic salts. Preferred metallic salts include alkali metal group Ia salts alkaline earth metal group IIa salts and other physiologically acceptable metal salts. Such salts may be made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc. Preferred organic salts can be made from amines such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

Compounds of formula I and salts thereof with any level of purity including pure and substantially pure are within the scope of Applicants invention. The term substantially pure in reference to a compound salt isomer means that the preparation composition containing the compound salt isomer contains more than about 85 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 90 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 95 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 97 by weight of the compound salt isomer and preferably more than about 99 by weight of the compound salt isomer.

Compounds of this invention may be made by synthetic chemical processes examples of which are shown herein. It is meant to be understood that the order of the steps in the processes may be varied that reagents solvents and reaction conditions may be substituted for those specifically mentioned and that vulnerable moieties may be protected and deprotected as necessary.

Protecting groups for C O OH moieties include but are not limited to acetoxymethyl allyl benzoylmethyl benzyl benzyloxymethyl tert butyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclopentyl cyclopropyl diphenylmethylsilyl ethyl para methoxybenzyl methoxymethyl methoxyethoxymethyl methyl methylthiomethyl naphthyl para nitrobenzyl phenyl n propyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl triethylsilyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl triphenylmethyl and the like. Protecting groups for C O and C O H moieties include but are not limited to 1 3 dioxylketal diethylketal dimethylketal 1 3 dithianylketal O methyloxime O phenyloxime and the like.

Protecting groups for NH moieties include but are not limited to acetyl alanyl benzoyl benzyl phenylmethyl benzylidene benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz tert butoxycarbonyl Boc 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl diphenylmethyl diphenylphosphoryl formyl methanesulfonyl para methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl phenylacetyl phthaloyl succinyl trichloroethoxycarbonyl triethylsilyl trifluoroacetyl trimethylsilyl triphenylmethyl triphenylsilyl para toluenesulfonyl and the like.

Protecting groups for OH and SH moieties include but are not limited to acetyl allyl allyloxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz benzoyl benzyl tert butyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl diphenylmethyl formyl methanesulfonyl methoxyacetyl 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl para methoxybenzyl methoxycarbonyl methyl para toluenesulfonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl triethylsilyl trifluoroacetyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl triphenylmethyl 2 triphenylphosphonio ethoxycarbonyl and the like.

As shown in Scheme 1 3 5 dibromo 2 pyridinecarbonitrile can be reacted with a compound of formula 1 wherein X is chloride bromine iodine or a triflate and A R and n are as described herein in the presence of a palladium or nickel catalyst to provide a compound of formula 2 . Examples of ligands on the catalyst include but are not limited to triphenylphosphine dppe BINAP or chiraphos. The reaction is typically performed at elevated temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula 2 can be treated at low temperature with a base such as but not limited to lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide followed by the addition of methyl iodide and then allowed to warm to room temperature to provide compounds of formula 3 . Compounds of formula 5 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 3 with compounds of formula 4 wherein B R and m are as described herein a base and a metal catalyst. Examples of bases include but are not limited to cesium carbonate sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide and sodium tert butoxide. Examples of metal catalysts and ligands include palladium acetate and rac BINAP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and rac BINAP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl and PdCl P o tolyl . Compounds of formula 5 can be treated with a base such as sodium t butoxide in a solvent such as but not limited to t butanol to provide compounds of formula 6 which are representative of the compounds of this invention. The reaction is typically performed at an elevated temperature before neutralizing with aqueous hydrochloric acid.

Alternatively compounds of formula 2 can be reacted with compounds of formula 4 wherein B R and m are as described herein a base and a metal catalyst. Examples of bases include but are not limited to cesium carbonate sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide and sodium tert butoxide. Examples of metal catalysts and ligands include palladium acetate and rac BINAP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and rac BINAP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl and PdCl P o tolyl . Compounds of formula 7 can be treated with a base such as sodium t butoxide in a solvent such as but not limited to t butanol to provide compounds of formula 8 which are also representative of the compounds of this invention. The reaction is typically performed at an elevated temperature before neutralizing with aqueous hydrochloric acid.

5 Bromo 3 fluoropicolinonitrile can be treated with compounds of formula 4 wherein B R and m are as described herein in the presence of a base such as but not limited to triethylamine followed by treatment with sodium t butoxide as described in Scheme 1 to provide compounds of formula 9 . The reaction is typically performed at elevated temperature in a microwave reactor in a solvent such as but not limited to t butanol followed by treatment with the sodium t butoxide at elevated temperature. Compounds of formula 9 can be treated with boronic acids of formula 9A wherein A R and n are as described herein using Suzuki coupling conditions described herein known to those skilled in the art and readily available in the literature to provide compounds of formula 10 which are representative of the compounds of this invention.

Compounds of formula 11 which can be prepared as described in Scheme 2 wherein the compound of formula 9A is 3 aminophenyl boronic acid can be reacted with a sulfonyl chloride of formula RSOCl to provide compounds of formula 12 which are representative of compounds of this invention.

In another aspect the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions for modulating kinase activity in a humans and animals that will typically contain a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Compounds having formula I may be administered for example bucally ophthalmically orally osmotically parenterally intramuscularly intraperintoneally intrasternally intravenously subcutaneously rectally topically transdermally vaginally and intraarterially as well as by intraarticular injection infusion and placement in the body such as for example the vasculature.

Compounds having formula I may be administered with or without an excipient. Excipients include but are not limited to encapsulators and additives such as absorption accelerators antioxidants binders buffers coating agents coloring agents diluents disintegrating agents emulsifiers extenders fillers flavoring agents humectants lubricants perfumes preservatives propellants releasing agents sterilizing agents sweeteners solubilizers wetting agents mixtures thereof and the like.

Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered orally include but are not limited to agar alginic acid aluminum hydroxide benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate 1 3 butylene glycol carbomers castor oil cellulose cellulose acetate cocoa butter corn starch corn oil cottonseed oil cross povidone diglycerides ethanol ethyl cellulose ethyl laureate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters gelatin germ oil glucose glycerol groundnut oil hydroxypropylmethyl celluose isopropanol isotonic saline lactose magnesium hydroxide magnesium stearate malt mannitol monoglycerides olive oil peanut oil potassium phosphate salts potato starch povidone propylene glycol Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium phosphate salts sodium lauryl sulfate sodium sorbitol soybean oil stearic acids stearyl fumarate sucrose surfactants talc tragacanth tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol triglycerides water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered ophthalmically or orally include but are not limited to 1 3 butylene glycol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil ethanol fatty acid esters of sorbitan germ oil groundnut oil glycerol isopropanol olive oil polyethylene glycols propylene glycol sesame oil water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered osmotically include but are not limited to chlorofluorohydrocarbons ethanol water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered parenterally include but are not limited to 1 3 butanediol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil dextrose germ oil groundnut oil liposomes oleic acid olive oil peanut oil Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil U.S.P. or isotonic sodium chloride solution water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered rectally or vaginally include but are not limited to cocoa butter polyethylene glycol wax mixtures thereof and the like.

The pharmaceutical composition and the method of the present invention may further comprise other therapeutically active compounds as noted herein which are usually applied in the treatment of the above mentioned pathological conditions.

In another aspect the present invention provides methods of using a compound or composition of the invention to treat or prevent a disease or condition involving mediation overexpression or disregulation of kinases in a mammal. In particular compounds of this invention are expected to have utility in treatment of diseases or conditions during which protein kinases such as any or all CDC 7 family members are expressed.

In one group of embodiments diseases and conditions of humans or other animals that can be treated with inhibitors of kinases include but are not limited to acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myleogeneous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma follicular lymphoma germ cell testicular cancer glioma heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer lymphagioendotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia lymphoma medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma non small cell lung cancer oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas small cell lung cancer stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma thyroid cancer Waldenstr m s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer and Wilms tumor.

The methods of the present invention typically involve administering to a subject in need of therapeutic treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I . Therapeutically effective amounts of a compound having formula I depend on recipient of treatment disease treated and severity thereof composition comprising it time of administration route of administration duration of treatment potency rate of clearance and whether or not another drug is co administered. The amount of a compound having formula I used to make a composition to be administered daily to a patient in a single dose or in divided doses is from about 0.03 to about 200 mg kg body weight. Single dose compositions contain these amounts or a combination of submultiples thereof.

The present invention further provides methods of using a compound or composition of the invention in combination with one or more additional active agents.

Compounds having Formula I are expected to be useful when used with alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives antivirals aurora kinase inhibitors apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl l inhibitors activators of death receptor pathway Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies antibody drug conjugates biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVDs leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAPs intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors kinesin inhibitors Jak2 inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors etinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNAs topoisomerase inhibitors ubiquitin ligase inhibitors and the like and in combination with one or more of these agents.

BiTE antibodies are bi specific antibodies that direct T cells to attack cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Examples of BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT 103 and the like. Without being limited by theory one of the mechanisms by which T cells elicit apoptosis of the target cancer cell is by exocytosis of cytolytic granule components which include perforin and granzyme B. In this regard Bcl 2 has been shown to attenuate the induction of apoptosis by both perforin and granzyme B. These data suggest that inhibition of Bcl 2 could enhance the cytotoxic effects elicited by T cells when targeted to cancer cells V. R. Sutton D. L. Vaux and J. A. Trapani 1997 158 12 5783 .

SiRNAs are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications do not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides combinations thereof and the like. The siRNA can have varying lengths e.g. 10 200 bps and structures e.g. hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and are processed in cells to provide active gene silencing. A double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand.

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Multivalent binding proteins are engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and are generally not naturally occurring antibodies. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens . DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig s. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site. Multispecific DVDs include DVD binding proteins that bind DLL4 and VEGF or C met and EFGR or ErbB3 and EGFR.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA pemetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Aurora kinase inhibitors include ABT 348 AZD 1152 MLN 8054 VX 680 Aurora A specific kinase inhibitors Aurora B specific kinase inhibitors and pan Aurora kinase inhibitors and the like.

Bcl 2 protein inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FC1 PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include HGS1029 GDC 0145 GDC 0152 LCL 161 LBW 242 and the like.

Antibody drug conjugates include anti CD22 MC MMAF anti CD22 MC MMAE anti CD22 MCC DM1 CR 011 vcMMAE PSMA ADC MEDI 547 SGN 19Am SGN 35 SGN 75 and the like

Activators of death receptor pathway include TRAIL antibodies or other agents that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. DR4 and DR5 such as Apomab conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and trastuzumab.

Kinesin inhibitors include Eg5 inhibitors such as AZD4877 ARRY 520 CENPE inhibitors such as GSK923295A and the like.

mTOR inhibitors include AP 23573 CCI 779 everolimus RAD 001 rapamycin temsirolimus ATP competitive TORC1 TORC2 inhibitors including PI 103 PP242 PP30 Torin 1 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin picoplatin and the like.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors include wortmannin LY294002 XL 147 CAL 120 ONC 21 AEZS 127 ETP 45658 PX 866 GDC 0941 BGT226 BEZ235 XL765 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 GA101 ofatumumab ABT 806 mAb 806 ErbB3 specific antibodies BSG2 specific antibodies DLL4 specific antibodies and C met specific antibodies and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab CD20 antibodies types I and II and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 veliparib olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofuran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Ubiquitin ligase inhibitors include MDM2 inhibitors such as nutlins NEDD8 inhibitors such as MLN4924 and the like.

Compounds of this invention can also be used as radiosensitizers that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachytherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds having Formula 1 may be combined with other chemotherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin O Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EPO906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTATAAE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECINT rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paclitaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

3 5 Dibromopyridine 30.5 g 0.12 mol was dissolved in dichloromethane 80 mL and methyltrioxorhenium 150 mg 0.603 mmol was added. Hydrogen peroxide aqueous 30 27 mL was added slowly over 5 minutes and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 3 hours. An additional 40 mL of 30 hydrogen peroxide was added and the reaction was stirred for 16 hours. Manganese dioxide 100 mg was added and the suspension was stirred for 40 minutes. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate was added and the suspension was refluxed for 30 minutes until solids dissolved and then the mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature and left for 48 hours. 3 5 Dibromopyridine 1 oxide 28.05 g 79 was collected by vacuum filtration. MS LC MS m z 254 M H . 3 5 Dibromopyridine 1 oxide 25.09 g 0.099 mol was then dissolved in acetonitrile 200 mL and triethylamine 28 mL 0.198 mol and trimethylsilylcyanide 40 mL 0.297 mol were added. The reaction was stirred for 16 hours diluted with dichloromethane aqueous sodium carbonate water and then filtered through diatomaceous earth eluting with dichloromethane. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane and the organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography 30 70 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound. MS LC MS m z 263 M H .

A solution of the product of EXAMPLE 1A 4.52 g 15.34 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 75 mL was treated with palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 0.887 g 0767 mmol and 2 6 dichlorobenzyl zinc chloride 46 mL 0.5M in tetrahydrofuran . The mixture was heated at 85 C. for 1 hour. After cooling to ambient temperature the mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography 0 100 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound. MS LC MS m z 342 M H .

A dry flask was charged with EXAMPLE 1B 55.3 mg 0.19 mmol cesium carbonate 87 mg 0.266 mmol palladium acetate 2.1 mg 0.0095 mmol rac BINAP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl 8.9 mg 0.0143 mmol tert butyl 4 4 amino 3 methoxyphenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 28 mg 0.228 mmol and toluene 5 mL . The mixture was refluxed for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in t butanol 2 mL and treated with sodium t butoxide 0.6 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 85 C. for 15 minutes diluted with dichloromethane and neutralized to pH 6 7 with 1N aqueous HCl. It was filtered through diatomaceous earth eluting with dichloromethane and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography 0 10 methanol in dichloromethane provided the title compound.

A solution of the product of EXAMPLE 1C 76 mg 0.13 mmol in dioxane 1 mL was treated with 4N HCl in dioxane 1 mL and stirred at ambient temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was neutralized with 1N aqueous NaOH and extracted with dichloromethane. The organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography 0 10 methanol in dichloromethane provided the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 2.85 t 4H J 5.2 Hz 3.05 t 4H J 5.2 Hz 3.66 s 3H 4.19 s 2H 6.39 6.42 m 1H 6.57 s 1H 6.88 6.97 m 2H 7.33 t 1H J 8.4 Hz 7.48 7.51 m 3H 7.73 s 1H 8.06 s 1H 9.88 s 1H MS ESI m z 487 M H .

EXAMPLE 1B 833 mg 2.436 mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 20 mL was cooled to 78 C. and treated with 1M lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide in tetrahydrofuran 3.04 mL 3.04 mmol . The reaction was stirred at this temperature for 45 minutes treated with CHI 0.198 mL 3.17 mmol and stirred slowly warming to 0 C. over 3 hours. It was quenched with aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by silica gel chromatography 0 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound.

EXAMPLE 2A 100 mg 0.281 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 amino 3 methoxyphenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 95 mg 0.309 mmol were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 2B was processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1D to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 1.65 d 3H J 7.2 Hz 2.87 t 4H J 5.2 Hz 3.07 t 4H J 5.2 Hz 3.69 s 3H 4.98 q 1H J 7.2 Hz 6.40 dd 1H J 2.4 Hz J 8.8 Hz 6.59 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 6.94 6.99 m 2H 7.37 t 3H J 8.0 Hz 7.46 7.50 m 3H 7.63 s 1H 8.05 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 9.90 s 1H MS ESI m z 501 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and benzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 3A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.37 s 3H 2.61 t J 4.4 5.2 Hz 4H 3.20 t J 4.8 5.6 Hz 4H 3.85 s 2H 6.91 d J 4.0 Hz 2H 7.08 d J 3.2 Hz 2H 7.12 d J 1.1 Hz 2H 7.22 m 2H 7.25 m 1H 7.29 m 2H 7.71 s 1H 7.90 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS ESI m z 402 M H .

EXAMPLE 3A and 3 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.36 s 1H 8.18 8.13 m 1H 7.91 d J 1.7 1H 7.62 7.57 m 1H 7.47 d J 1.7 1H 7.33 7.17 m 5H 7.14 t J 8.0 1H 6.64 dd J 8.3 2.3 1H 6.60 d J 2.2 1H 6.54 dd J 7.8 1.9 1H 3.94 s 2H 3.08 2.97 m 4H 2.44 2.38 m 4H 2.22 s 3H MS ESI m z 402 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and cyclohexylmethyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 5A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C and purified by RP HPLC 0.1 TFA acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.23 s 1H 8.13 s 1H 7.75 s 1H 7.54 s 1H 7.21 7.01 m 5H 3.99 3.65 m 6H 3.58 3.49 m 5H 2.88 d J 3.7 1H 1.68 1.54 m 4H 1.49 1.39 m 1H 1.35 1.09 m 3H 0.96 0.81 m 2H MS ESI m z 408 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and phenyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 6A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C and purified by RP HPLC 0.1 TFA acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.34 s 1H 8.26 8.19 s 1H 7.69 7.60 m 2H 7.56 d J 2.0 1H 7.53 7.40 m 3H 7.24 s 2H 7.12 7.02 m 2H 3.08 2.97 m 4H 2.44 2.38 m 4H 2.22 s 3H MS ESI m z 388 M H .

EXAMPLE 3A and 3 chloro 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C and purified by RP HPLC 0.1 TFA acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d ppm 12.45 s 1H 10.44 s 1H 8.19 bs 1H 7.94 d J 1.7 1H 7.67 7.62 bs 1H 7.45 d J 1.8 1H 7.35 7.08 m 7H 3.97 s 2H 3.92 3.89 m 2H 3.80 3.72 m 2H 3.59 s 3H 2.54 2.47 m 4H MS ESI m z 436 M H .

EXAMPLE 3A and 3 methyl 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C and purified by RP HPLC 0.1 TFA acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d ppm 12.40 s 1H 10.06 d J 5.4 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.80 d J 1.6 1H 7.54 s 1H 7.28 t J 7.3 2H 7.23 7.10 m 4H 7.03 6.97 m 1H 6.97 6.90 m 1H 3.96 s 2H 3.88 3.82 m 2H 3.78 3.72 m 4H 3.56 s 3H 3.29 t J 11.1 2 H 2.10 s 3H MS ESI m z 416 M H .

EXAMPLE 3A and 2 methyl 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C and purified by RP HPLC 0.1 TFA acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d ppm 12.33 s 1H 10.06 d J 5.3 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.80 d J 1.6 1H 7.54 s 1H 7.28 t J 7.4 2H 7.22 7.04 m 4H 7.03 6.81 m 2H 3.88 s 2H 3.86 3.82 m 2H 3.78 3.72 m 4H 3.56 s 3H 3.33 3.25 t J 11.1 2 H 2.10 s 3H MS ESI m z 416 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 1 phenylvinyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 10A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.35 s 3H 2.58 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.17 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 5.44 s 1H 5.55 s 1H 6.88 d J 11 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.32 m 6H 7.37 s 1H 7.79 s 1H 7.94 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 9.94 s 1H MS LC MS m z 414 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 1 phenylethyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 11A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 1.57 d J 9.0 Hz 3H 2.38 s 3H 2.62 t J 5.6 4.0 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 5.6 4.0 Hz 4H 4.04 m J 7.2 Hz 1H 5.32 s 1H 6.91 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.08 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.17 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.20 m 1H 7.29 m 2H 7.72 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.89 s 1H MS LC MS m z 416 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 4 fluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 12A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.30 s 3H 2.53 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.13 t J 5.2 Hz 4H 3.75 s 2H 5.29 s 1H 6.84 d J 4.4 Hz 2H 6.89 m J 4.4 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.02 m 2H 7.10 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.60 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.81 s 1H MS LC MS m z 420 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 fluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 13A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.37 s 3H 2.61 t J 6.0 6.5 Hz 4H 3.13 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.77 s 2H 5.38 s 1H 6.84 d J 2.4 Hz 2H 6.97 m 3H 7.02 d J 2.4 Hz 2H 7.13 m 1H 7.19 s 1H 7.72 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.89 s 1H MS LC MS m z 420 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 fluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 14A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.29 s 3H 2.53 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.87 s 2H 5.38 s 1H 6.74 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 6.83 m J 8.8 Hz 4H 7.02 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.15 m 2H 7.61 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.82 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.82 s 1H MS LC MS m z 420 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 6 difluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 15A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.31 s 3H 2.55 t J 4.4 5.2 Hz 4H 3.15 t J 4.4 5.2 Hz 4H 3.81 s 2H 5.27 s 1H 6.80 t J 7.6 8 Hz 2H 6.86 d J 12 Hz 2H 7.02 d J 12 Hz 2H 7.11 m 1H 7.26 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.81 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.82 s 1H MS LC MS m z 438 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 4 methoxybenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 16A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.36 s 3H 2.60 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.20 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.78 s 3H 3.80 s 2H 5.38 s 1H 6.81 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.90 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.08 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.21 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.68 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS LC MS m z 432 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and naphthalen 2 ylmethyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 17A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.36 s 3H 2.58 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.16 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 4.01 s 2H 5.37 s 1H 6.84 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.23 s 1H 7.45 m 2H 7.56 s 1H 7.78 m 4H 7.89 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS LC MS m z 452 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 5 difluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 18A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.37 s 3H 2.60 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.81 s 2H 5.38 s 1H 6.64 d J 8 Hz 2H 6.65 m 1H 6.93 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.09 d J 7.1 Hz 2H 7.16 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 7.67 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.90 s 1H MS LC MS m z 438 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 4 difluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 19A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.37 s 3H 2.60 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.80 s 2H 5.37 s 1H 6.84 m 1H 6.92 m 2H 7.08 m 2H 7.15 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.66 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.89 s 1H MS LC MS m z 438 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 4 difluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 20A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.38 s 3H 2.62 t J 4.4 Hz 4H 3.22 t J 4.4 Hz 4H 3.82 s 1H 5.34 s 1H 6.80 t J 8.4 8.8 Hz 1H 6.91 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.04 m 1H 7.08 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.21 s 1H 7.69 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.89 s 1H MS LC MS m z 438 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 5 difluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 21A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.37 s 3H 2.61 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.22 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.84 s 2H 5.35 s 1H 6.77 m 1H 6.87 m 1H 6.92 d J 8 Hz 2H 6.98 m 1H 7.10 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.23 s J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.70 s J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.90 s 1H MS LC MS m z 438 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 methoxybenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 22A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.36 s 3H 2.60 t J 4.4 4.8 Hz 4H 3.15 t J 4.4 5.2 Hz 4H 3.76 s 3H 3.76 s 2H 5.55 s 1H 6.65 s 1H 6.73 m 2H 6.92 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.08 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.19 t J 7.6 1.0 Hz 1H 7.22 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.70 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS LC MS m z 432 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 chlorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 23A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.30 s 3H 2.53 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.13 t J 5.2 Hz 4H 3.90 s 2H 5.27 s 1H 6.83 d J 5.2 Hz 2H 7.03 d J 5.2 Hz 2H 7.04 s 1H 7.11 t J 1.0 2.0 Hz 2H 7.17 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.29 t J 2.0 2.8 Hz 1H 7.63 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.81 s 1H MS LC MS m z 436 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 chlorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 24A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.37 s 3H 2.60 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 5.2 Hz 4H 3.82 s 2H 5.38 s 1H 6.92 d J 4.4 Hz 2H 6.99 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 4.4 Hz 2H 7.11 s 1H 7.19 t J 2.4 3.6 Hz 3H 7.68 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.89 s 1H MS LC MS m z 436 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 4 chlorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 25A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.31 s 3H 2.55 t J 4.4 5.2 Hz 4H 3.15 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.74 s 2H 5.27 s 1H 6.83 d J 9.2 Hz 2H 6.98 t J 4.8 7.6 Hz 1H 7.09 d J 1.5 Hz 2H 7.16 s 1H 7.18 s 1H 7.59 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.81 s 1H MS LC MS m z 436 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 methylbenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 26A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.30 s 3H 2.37 s 3H 2.61 t J 6.0 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.80 s 3H 5.37 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 6.90 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 6.92 d J 2.0 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.16 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.70 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS LC MS m z 416 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 methylbenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 27A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.22 s 3H 2.36 s 3H 2.61 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.20 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.85 s 3H 5.37 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 6.88 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.01 t J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.12 m 4H 7.64 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS LC MS m z 416 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 methoxybenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 28A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.30 s 3H 2.53 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.13 t J 4.8 5.2 Hz 4H 3.69 s 3H 3.75 s 2H 5.28 s 1H 6.78 m J 8.0 8.4 Hz 2H 6.82 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.97 dd J 1.8 8.0 Hz 1H 7.01 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.10 td J 2.0 8.4 Hz 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.66 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.77 s 1H MS LC MS m z 432 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 4 methylbenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 29A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.23 s 3H 2.30 s 3H 2.54 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.14 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.73 s 3H 5.26 d J 3.2 Hz 1H 6.84 dd J 2.0 6.4 Hz 2H 6.93 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 7.02 t J 2.4 6.4 Hz 4H 7.14 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.62 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.81 d J 3.2 Hz 1H 9.80 s 1H MS LC MS m z 416 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 30A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.38 s 3H 2.62 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.22 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 4.03 d J 2.0 Hz 2H 5.44 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 6.92 dd J 2.0 6.4 Hz 2H 6.99 m 1H 7.09 dd J 2.0 6.4 Hz 2H 7.17 m 2H 7.34 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.77 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.90 s 1H MS LC MS m z 454 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 6 dichlorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 31A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.38 s 3H 2.63 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.21 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 4.20 s 2H 5.42 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 6.92 dd J 2.0 6.8 Hz 2H 7.09 dd J 2.0 6.8 Hz 2H 7.13 t J 1.0 7.0 Hz 1H 7.29 t J 3.0 10.0 Hz 3H 7.73 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 4.5 Hz 1H 9.88 s 1H MS LC MS m z 470 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and biphenyl 2 methyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 32A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.34 s 3H 2.59 s 4H 3.17 t J 4.8 Hz 4H 3.75 s 2H 5.25 s 1H 6.84 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.88 s 1H 6.93 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.10 m 3H 7.15 m 1H 7.21 m 2H 7.25 m 2H 7.26 m 1H 7.41 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.78 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 9.75 s 1H MS LC MS m z 478 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 3 trifluoromethylbenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 33A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 2.87 s 3H 3.21 m J 2.0 4.5 Hz 8H 3.91 s 2H 6.90 m J 3.5 8.5 Hz 2H 7.09 m J 2.0 7.6 Hz 2H 7.11 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.37 m 4H 7.73 d J 2.0 Hz 1H MS LC MS m z 470 M H .

EXAMPLE 14A and iodomethane were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 2A to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 34A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.89 s 1H 7.90 7.84 m 1H 7.70 d J 1.8 1H 7.28 7.19 m 3H 7.11 7.04 m 2H 6.97 6.83 m 5H 4.03 q J 7.2 1H 3.24 3.18 m 4H 2.64 2.57 m 4H 2.37 s 3H 1.56 d J 7.2 3H MS ESI m z 434 M H .

EXAMPLE 34A and iodomethane were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 2A to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 35A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.89 s 1H 7.87 s 1H 7.66 d J 2.0 1H 7.33 d J 2.0 1H 7.27 m 1H 7.06 d J 8.8 2H 6.94 6.86 m 5H 5.44 s 1H 3.25 3.15 m 4H 2.66 2.56 m 4H 2.37 s 3H 1.61 s 6H MS ESI m z 448 M H .

EXAMPLE 34A and 3 chloro 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 10.05 s 1H 7.90 s 1H 7.79 d J 1.8 1H 7.36 7.25 m 2H 7.20 t J 12.6 1H 7.10 6.83 m 5H 5.36 s 1H 4.17 4.02 m 1H 3.09 s 4H 2.66 s 4H 2.40 s 3H 1.61 d J 7.2 3H MS ESI m z 468 M H .

EXAMPLE 34A and 2 methoxy 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.79 s 1H 7.89 7.77 m 1H 7.70 d J 1.9 1H 7.23 7.19 m 1H 7.19 7.07 m 2H 6.95 d J 7.8 1H 6.93 6.83 m 2H 6.54 d J 2.6 1H 6.48 dd J 8.5 2.6 1H 5.32 5.26 s 1H 4.04 q J 7.2 1H 3.31 3.20 m 4H 2.68 2.60 m 4H 2.40 s 3H 1.55 s 3H MS ESI m z 464 M H .

EXAMPLE 1B and 2 methoxy 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 2.69 s 3H 3.13 br 4H 3.38 br 4H 3.69 s 3H 4.20 s 2H 6.47 dd 1H J 2.4 Hz J 8.4 Hz 6.65 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 6.90 s 1H 7.01 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 7.35 t 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.49 7.51 m 3H 7.75 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 8.07 d 1H J 2.4 Hz MS ESI m z 501 M H .

EXAMPLE 1B and tert butyl 4 4 amino phenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 39B was processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1D to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 3.18 br 4H 3.25 m 4H 4.22 s 2H 6.94 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.03 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.17 s 1H 7.34 t 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.51 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.59 s 3H 7.76 s 1H 8.12 s 1H 10.18 s 1H MS ESI m z 457 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 2 chloro 5 fluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 40A and 3 chloro 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 10.12 s 1H 7.95 7.89 s 1H 7.81 d J 1.8 1H 7.36 dd J 8.8 5.1 1H 7.31 d J 1.7 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.06 7.02 s 2H 6.93 td J 8.3 3.0 1H 6.87 dd J 8.9 3.0 1H 5.43 5.37 m 1H 4.00 s 2H 3.48 3.28 m 4H 2.73 2.68 m 4H 1.28 1.23 s 3H MS ESI m z 489 M H .

EXAMPLE 40A and 2 methoxy 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.80 s 1H 7.89 s 1H 7.71 d J 1.4 1H 7.32 dd J 8.8 5.2 1H 7.12 d J 8.5 1H 7.06 s 1H 6.89 d J 2.9 1H 6.80 dd J 9.1 2.9 1H 6.56 6.43 m 2H 5.41 s 1H 3.94 s 2H 3.76 s 3H 3.33 3.06 m 8H MS ESI m z 470 M H .

EXAMPLE 30A and tert butyl 4 4 amino 3 methoxyphenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 42A was processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1D to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.79 s 1H 7.87 d J 4.2 1H 7.77 d J 1.8 1H 7.22 7.10 m 4H 7.06 6.94 m 1H 6.54 d J 2.5 1H 6.48 dd J 8.5 2.6 1H 5.30 s 1H 4.03 d J 2.1 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.21 3.05 m 8H MS ESI m z 470 M H .

A solution of EXAMPLE 42B 25 mg 0.053 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL triethylamine 22.24 uL 0.16 mmol and 4 2 chloroethyl morpholine hydrochloride 9.9 mg 0.053 mmol were heated to 75 C. over 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified on RP HPLC 10 mM ammonium acetate acetonitrile to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.76 s 1H 7.88 s 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.23 7.06 m 4H 7.06 6.91 m 1H 6.58 6.53 d J 2.5 6H 6.47 dd J 8.6 2.5 5H 5.46 s 1H 4.02 d J 1.9 2H 3.83 3.68 m 7H 3.27 3.09 m 4H 2.77 2.49 m 12H MS ESI m z 584 M H .

EXAMPLE 42B and 2 chloro N N diethylethanamine hydrochloride were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 43 to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCL ppm 9.77 s 1H 7.89 7.83 m 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.20 7.08 m 4H 7.02 6.93 m 1H 6.53 d J 2.5 1H 6.47 dd J 8.5 2.6 1H 5.35 5.28 m 1H 4.02 d J 2.1 2H 3.76 s 3H 3.24 3.13 m 4H 2.77 2.57 m 12H 1.09 t J 7.1 6H MS ESI m z 570 M H .

EXAMPLE 42B and 1 chloro 2 methylpropan 2 ol were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 43 to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.78 s 1H 7.89 7.83 m 1H 7.76 d J 1.7 1H 7.22 7.09 m 4H 7.02 6.94 m 1H 6.53 d J 2.5 1H 6.47 dd J 8.5 2.5 1H 5.36 5.30 m 1H 4.03 d J 2.1 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.24 3.10 m 4H 2.87 2.81 m 4H 2.42 s 2H 1.21 s 6H MS ESI m z 543 M H .

EXAMPLE 42B and iodomethane were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 43 to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.77 s 1H 7.87 s 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.15 ddd J 15.0 10.2 7.0 4H 7.06 6.91 m 1H 6.58 6.42 m 2H 5.42 s 1H 4.03 d J 2.0 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.29 3.18 m 4H 2.73 2.59 m 4H 2.40 s 3H MS ESI m z 484 M H .

EXAMPLE 42B and iodoethane were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 43 to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.77 s 1H 7.89 7.83 m 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.21 7.09 m 4H 7.05 6.93 m 1H 6.54 d J 2.5 1H 6.48 dd J 8.5 2.6 1H 5.29 d J 4.2 1H 4.03 d J 2.1 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.27 3.20 m 4H 2.69 2.64 m 4H 2.56 2.45 m 2H 1.20 1.12 m 3H MS ESI m z 498 M H .

EXAMPLE 1A and 5 chloro 2 4 difluorobenzyl zinc bromide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 48A and tert butyl 4 4 amino 3 methoxyphenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1C to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 48B was processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 1D to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO ppm 9.94 bs 1H 8.07 bs 1H 7.77 d J 1.8 1H 7.51 s 1H 7.44 td J 8.9 4.9 1H 7.33 td J 9.1 4.4 1H 7.05 d J 8.6 1H 6.93 s 1H 6.68 d J 2.4 1H 6.51 dd J 8.6 2.5 1H 4.09 4.04 m 2H 3.69 s 3H 3.38 m 4H 3.24 m 4H MS ESI m z 488 M H .

A solution of 5 bromo 3 nitropicolinonitrile 6.84 g 30 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide was cooled to 25 C. and treated with 1M tetra n butylammonium fluoride in tetrahydrofuran 60 mL 60 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. It was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide crude title compound.

A solution of EXAMPLE 49A 1.8 g 8.96 mmol and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline 1.713 g 8.96 mmol in t butanol 10 mL was treated with triethylamine 1.87 mL 13.43 mmol was subjected to microwave irradiation Biotage Initiator at 190 C. for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified on silica gel with 0 10 methanol in dichloromethane. The collected material was taken into t butanol 5 mL treated with sodium t butoxide 1.73 g 18 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was concentrated and purified on silica gel with 3 13 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound.

A solution of EXAMPLE 49B 21.5 mg 0.055 mmol and o tolyl boronic acid 9 mg 0.066 mmol in dioxane 3 mL was treated with an aqueous solution of cesium carbonate 0.11 mL 0.11 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane 4.5 mg 0.005 mmol and subjected to microwave irradiation Biotage Initiator at 150 C. for 30 minutes. After cooling the reaction mixture was transferred to a pre packed column of Si Carbonate 2 g 0.79 mmol g and eluted with methanol. The column was then washed several times. The solution thus obtained was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by RP HPLC 10 mM ammonium acetate acetonitrile to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.03 s 1H 8.10 d J 1.8 1H 7.35 7.25 m 8H 7.01 6.95 m 3H 4.22 4.17 m 2H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 4H 2.25 s 3H MS ESI m z 402 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 2 fluorophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.03 s 1H 8.33 t J 1.8 1H 7.84 t J 1.6 1H 7.5 7.45 m 1H 7.35 7.28 m 3H 7.25 7.15 m 1H 7.03 6.96 m 2H 4.22 4.17 m 2H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 3.84 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 4H MS ESI m z 406 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 fluorophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.09 s 1H 8.41 d J 1.9 1H 7.85 d J 1.9 1H 7.53 7.49 m 1H 7.46 7.32 m 5H 7.20 7.15 m 1H 7.05 6.99 m 2H 4.22 4.17 m 2H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 4H MS ESI m z 406 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 fluorophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.10 s 1H 8.38 d J 1.9 1H 7.84 7.74 m 2H 7.55 7.25 m 6H 7.08 6.97 m 2H 4.22 4.17 m 2H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 4H MS ESI m z 422 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 aminocarbonylphenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.09 s 1H 8.99 bs 2H 8.69 8.64 m 1H 8.51 8.35 m 2H 7.90 d J 1.9 1H 7.75 m 1H 7.58 m 1H 7.31 s 2H 7.01 6.94 m 2H 4.22 4.17 m 2H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 4H MS ESI m z 431 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 methylsulfonamidophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.7 bs 1H 11.06 s 1H 8.97 d J 3.5 1H 8.43 d J 1.9 1H 7.92 t J 1.8 1H 7.86 d J 1.9 1H 7.74 7.67 m 1H 7.49 d J 7.7 1H 7.45 d J 3.1 1H 7.36 7.29 m 2H 7.03 6.96 m 2H 4.22 4.17 m 2H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 4H 3.25 s 3H MS ESI m z 481 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 2 methylsulfonamidophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.50 s 1H 10.94 s 1H 8.33 d J 1.8 1H 8.03 7.85 m 3H 7.72 7.60 m 1H 7.50 7.26 m 6H 7.06 6.90 m 2H 4.16 d J 11.3 2H 4.01 3.87 m 2H 3.84 s 3H 3.56 d J 2.3 4H 3.17 s 3H MS ESI m z 481 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and E styrylboronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO ppm 10.23 s 1H 8.22 d J 1.7 1H 8.18 8.12 m 1H 7.66 7.56 m 3H 7.49 d J 1.7 1H 7.44 7.20 m 5H 7.18 7.11 m 2H 7.02 6.96 m 2H 3.17 3.11 m 4H 2.48 2.42 m 4H 2.24 s 3H MS ESI m z 414 M H .

EXAMPLE 49A and 2 methoxy 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49B to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 57A and 3 methylsulfonamidophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO ppm 10.03 s 1H 8.16 d J 2.6 1H 8.09 d J 1.8 1H 7.58 d J 3.7 1H 7.44 t J 7.9 1H 7.34 dd J 9.0 4.7 2H 7.26 t J 5.0 2H 7.19 d J 8.6 1H 6.68 d J 2.5 1H 6.52 dd J 8.7 2.5 1H 4.10 s 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.19 3.11 m 8H 3.02 s 3H 2.24 s 3H MS ESI m z 512 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 2 chlorophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.01 s 1H 9.00 8.95 m 1H 8.17 d J 1.8 1H 7.73 d J 1.9 1H 7.56 7.50 m 1H 7.42 7.36 m 1H 7.37 7.27 m 4H 6.99 6.93 m 2H 3.36 3.30 m 4H 2.95 2.89 m 4H 2.56 2.48 s 3H MS ESI m z 422 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 cyanophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.09 s 1H 9.06 9.01 m 1H 8.38 d J 1.9 1H 8.11 t J 1.7 1H 7.84 d J 1.9 1H 7.82 7.76 m 1H 7.70 dt J 7.7 1.3 1H 7.44 t J 7.8 1H 7.39 7.33 m 2H 7.01 6.96 m 2H 3.33 3.27 m 4H 2.87 2.81 m 4H 2.52 2.47 s 3H MS ESI m z 413 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 pyridylboronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.04 s 1H 9.07 dd J 2.4 0.9 1H 9.01 8.89 m 1H 8.36 d J 1.9 1H 7.90 7.83 m 1H 7.82 d J 1.9 1H 7.40 7.34 m 3H 7.36 7.26 m 1H 7.07 6.98 m 2H 3.31 3.21 m 4H 2.75 2.66 m 4H 2.38 s 3H MS ESI m z 389 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 2 cyanophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.07 s 1H 8.93 d J 23.4 1H 8.24 d J 1.9 1H 7.88 7.77 m 2H 7.55 7.40 m 5H 7.04 d J 8.9 2H 3.33 3.16 m 4H 2.80 2.62 m 4H 2.40 s 3H MS ESI m z 413 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 dimethylcarbamoylphenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.06 s 1H 9.01 8.96 m 1H 8.41 d J 1.9 1H 7.96 t J 1.7 1H 7.88 d J 1.9 1H 7.65 dt J 7.7 1.4 1H 7.45 t J 7.6 1H 7.35 7.30 m 2H 6.98 6.92 m 2H 3.41 3.29 m 4H 3.15 3.06 s 3H 3.03 2.84 m 4H 2.83 2.77 m 3H 2.56 s 3H MS ESI m z 459 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 1H pyrazol 4 ylboronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.06 11.00 m 1H 8.94 8.85 m 2H 8.60 8.50 m 3H 8.33 s 2H 7.98 7.91 m 1H 7.43 7.33 m 3H 7.08 6.97 m 3H 3.23 3.16 m 4H 2.60 2.52 m 4H 2.28 s 3H MS ESI m z 378 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 ylboronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR pyridine d ppm 11.03 s 1H 8.89 d J 3.4 1H 8.59 8.53 m 1H 8.47 d J 1.8 1H 8.10 d J 0.8 1H 7.98 s 1H 7.84 d J 1.8 1H 7.35 7.30 m 2H 7.01 6.96 m 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.35 3.29 m 4H 2.91 2.85 m 4H 2.52 s 3H MS ESI m z 392 M H .

EXAMPLE 49B and 3 aminophenyl boronic acid were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 49C to afford the title compound.

A solution of EXAMPLE 65A 18 mg 0.045 mmol in dichloromethane 0.4 mL and pyridine 0.1 mL was added to a cooled to 0 C. 2 2 2 trifluoroethanesulfonyl chloride 9 mg 0.05 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred slowly warming to ambient temperature over 18 hours and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude material was purified by RP HPLC 10 mM ammonium acetate acetonitrile to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.27 s 1H 8.21 d J 3.0 1H 8.14 d J 1.9 1H 7.68 7.63 m 1H 7.52 7.40 m 2H 7.40 7.33 m 2H 7.30 7.23 m 1H 7.20 7.14 m 2H 7.00 6.94 m 2H 4.54 q J 9.8 2H 3.13 m 4H 2.45 m 4H 2.24 s 3H MS ESI m z 549 M H .

EXAMPLE 65A and cyclopropanesulfonyl chloride were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 65B to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.25 s 1H 8.21 d J 2.3 1H 8.13 d J 1.9 1H 7.65 d J 2.4 1H 7.47 d J 1.9 1H 7.45 7.36 m 2H 7.36 7.24 m 2H 7.17 d J 8.9 2H 6.97 d J 8.9 2H 3.14 3.10 m 4H 2.63 s 1H 2.48 2.44 m 4H 2.22 s 3H 0.90 dd J 6.2 3.7 4H MS ESI m z 507 M H .

EXAMPLE 65A and 5 methylisoxazole 4 sulfonyl chloride were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 65B to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.30 s 1H 8.24 s 1H 8.15 d J 1.8 1H 7.63 s 1H 7.50 d J 1.7 1H 7.30 dd J 11.0 4.7 2H 7.20 t J 9.7 3H 7.16 7.08 m 2H 7.05 7.01 m 2H 1.91 s 3H 1.74 s 3H MS ESI m z 548 M H .

EXAMPLE 65A and thiophene 2 sulfonyl chloride were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 65B to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.22 s 1H 8.22 8.17 m 1H 8.05 d J 1.9 1H 7.81 d J 5.1 1H 7.67 7.62 m 1H 7.48 dd J 3.7 1.3 1H 7.40 7.33 m 2H 7.34 7.27 m 1H 7.26 bs 1H 7.20 7.13 m 3H 7.07 7.01 m 1H 7.03 6.97 m 2H 3.20 3.10 m 4H 2.45 m 4H 2.22 s 3H 1.91 s 1H MS ESI m z 549 M H .

EXAMPLE 65A and 1 methyl 1H pyrazole 3 sulfonyl chloride were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 65B to afford the title compound. H NMR CDCl ppm 9.95 s 1H 8.00 d J 1.9 1H 7.97 7.92 m 1H 7.44 d J 1.9 1H 7.34 7.24 m 3H 7.26 7.20 m 2H 7.22 7.14 m 3H 6.95 d 2H 6.58 d J 2.3 1H 5.46 5.40 m 1H 3.88 s 3H 3.27 3.21 m 4H 2.63 m 4H 2.38 s 3H 2.09 s 1H MS ESI m z 547 M H .

A solution of 5 bromo 3 fluoropicolinonitrile 1 g 5 mmol from EXAMPLE 49A and 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl aniline 1.24 g 6.5 mmol in isopropanol 15 mL was treated with triethylamine 0.76 mL 7.5 mmol was subjected to microwave irradiation Biotage Initiator at 180 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified on silica gel with 2 25 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound.

Aniline 22.4 mg 0.24 mmol cesium carbonate 91 mg 0.28 mmol palladium II acetate 2.25 mg 0.01 mmol and 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthalene 9.34 mg 0.015 mmol were added to a dry microwave vial. The vial was capped and purged with nitrogen. A degassed solution of EXAMPLE 70A 74.5 mg 0.2 mmol in toluene 1 mL was added to the microwave vial and the reaction was stirred at 110 C. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified on silica gel with 2 25 methanol in dichloromethane to afford 3 4 4 methyl piperazin 1 yl phenylamino 5 phenylamino pyridine 2 carbonitrile. A solution of this 20 mg 0.052 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide was treated with potassium carbonate 36 mg 0.26 mmol and 30 hydrogen peroxide 1 mL while keeping temperature below 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and then at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition water filtered washed with water and dried to provide the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.15 s 1H 8.64 s 1H 7.83 7.78 m 1H 7.65 d J 2.3 1H 7.26 t J 7.7 2H 7.21 d J 3.4 1H 7.11 7.04 m 4H 6.96 6.88 m 4H 3.12 3.04 m 4H 2.42 2.32 m 4H 2.20 s 3H MS ESI m z 402 M H .

EXAMPLE 70A and 2 amino N N dimethylbenzenesulfonamide were processed using the method described in EXAMPLE 70B to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d ppm 10.33 s 1H 8.09 s 1H 7.95 d J 16.4 1H 7.84 7.68 m 2H 7.67 7.50 m 2H 7.38 s 1H 7.30 7.12 m 3H 7.12 6.95 m 4H 2.89 dd J 20.4 7.4 4H 2.66 dt J 9.5 4.8 2H 2.61 s 6H 2.54 s 3H 2.33 dd J 3.6 1.8 2H MS ESI m z 510 M H .

ALK kinase assays were conducted with the indicated final concentrations unless otherwise specified. In 384 well black plates Axygen 8 l of compound 2 DMSO was incubated with 8 l Lck peptide substrate 0.5 M biotin Ahx GAEEEIYAAFFA COOH and 8 l of a mixture of ALK 3 nM Millipore and ATP 50 M in reaction buffer 50 mM Hepes pH 7.4 10 mM MgCl 2 mM MnCl 0.1 mM sodium orthovanadate 0.01 BSA and 1 mM DTT added fresh before assay for 1 h at room temperature. Reactions were then quenched by the addition of 30 l quench solution streptavidin allophycocyanin and Europium cryptate PT66 monoclonal antibody in 40 mM Hepes pH 7.4 480 mM KF 66 mM EDTA 0.01 Tween 20 and 0.1 BSA at room temperature. Plates were read 1 h after quenching on an Envision Multilaber Reader and ICvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal fit of the concentration inhibition response curves. These values were converted to apparent Kvalues using the Cheng Prusoff relationship.

Alternatively 4 nM ALK Millipore and 50 M ATP were pre incubated for 30 min at room temperate in 384 well plates Corning 3676 in 2.5 reaction buffer 125 nM SEB from Cisbio Bioassays 12.5 mM MgCl 5 mM MnCl and 2.5 mM DTT . Reactions were initiated by the addition of 4 l ALK ATP mixture to 2 l compounds 2 DMSO and 4 l TK substrate biotin Cisbio Bioassays . After incubation for 1 h at room temperature reactions were quenched in 10 l stop buffer Cisbio detection buffer containing Streptavididn XL665 and Eu Cryptate PT66 monoclonal antibody . Plates were read 1 h after quenching on an Envision Multilaber Reader and ICvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal fit of the concentration inhibition response curves. These values were converted to apparent Kvalues using the Cheng Prusoff relationship. Results are shown in Table 1 A correlates to an K 1 M.

Compounds of the present invention assessed by the above described assays were found to have ALK kinase inhibiting activity.

All publication and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

