---

title: Digital microfluidic platform for actuating and heating individual liquid droplets
abstract: A digital microfluidic platform utilizes dual active matrix circuitry to actuate and heat liquid droplets on a biochip. Liquid droplets are introduced into a droplet handling area of the biochip where they can be actuated by electrodes residing in pixels of an actuating active matrix array according to the electrowetting on dielectric phenomenon and heated by heating elements residing in pixels of a heating active matrix array. Pixels of the actuating active matrix array and the heating active matrix array are independently addressable such that droplets in the droplet handling area can be selectively heated and actuated according to their location. The actuating active matrix array and heating active matrix array can be formed on the same or different substrates with the droplet handling area disposed above or between the substrates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08980075&OS=08980075&RS=08980075
owner: The Texas A & M University System
number: 08980075
owner_city: College Station
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120727
---
This is a non provisional filing of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 513 319 filed Jul. 29 2011 to which priority is claimed and which is incorporated by reference in its entirety including its Appendices.

This work was supported in part by a grant from the National Institute of Health Award Reference No. 21RR026227 . The government may have certain rights in this invention.

This disclosure relates generally to the field of microfluidic technologies. More particularly but not by way of limitation it relates to the use of dual active matrix circuitry to individually actuate and heat liquid droplets on a biochip.

In recent years biochip devices have attracted huge interests in scientific research applications because they are capable of carrying out highly repetitive laboratory tasks with a small fluid volume thus saving time and materials. Traditional biochip devices use micro and nanofluidic channels to manipulate fluids of interest based on the principles of continuous fluid flow. The complexity in integrating large numbers of micropumps microvalves and microchannels into a channel based biochip however limits the scope of the analytical problems these devices can address.

Furthermore most biochip devices reported in literature today still require application specific design and fabrication which is a laborious and time consuming process. Because current biochip development is based on a one application one implementation model communication is required between biochip end users and device engineers for each analytical or synthetic task to be addressed.

For microfluidic biochip devices to become viable took for biologists chemists clinicians field officers and public health officials they must be constructed in a manner that allows users to focus on the specific tasks they are interested in without worrying about the design principles of the biochip. Though efforts have been devoted to developing standardized computer aided design protocols to facilitate communication and simplify biochip development custom fabrication of a biochip is still required for each specific task to be addressed. Accordingly a significant amount of effort time and cost are associated with the development and manufacture of an effective biochip. These disadvantages prevent the full realization of the benefits of biochips and have resulted in most biochips being utilized in research labs with limited real world application.

It would be desirable to provide a biochip device that overcomes the complexity and corresponding limitations of a channel based biochip device. It would further be desirable to provide a biochip device that is both easily customizable by an end user to perform a specific set of tasks sought to be performed by the user and reusable to perform a different set of tasks. It would further be desirable to provide a biochip device capable of achieving precise control of process conditions for the specific tasks to be performed.

In a first embodiment a device for manipulating droplets of fluid includes a first substrate having a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and columns. Each pixel includes a first switch coupled to an electrode that is individually controllable to move a fluid droplet and a second switch coupled to a heating element that is individually controllable to heat a droplet proximate to the heating element. A droplet handling area is disposed above the first substrate and includes at least one fluid input port for introducing a droplet into the droplet handling area and at least one fluid output port for removing a droplet from the droplet handling area. The droplet handling area may be protected from above by a second substrate.

In a second embodiment a device for manipulating droplets of fluid includes a first substrate having a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and columns and a second substrate having a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and columns. Each pixel of the first substrate includes a switch coupled to an electrode that is individually controllable to move a fluid droplet. Each pixel of the second substrate includes a switch coupled to a heating element that is individually controllable to heat a droplet proximate to the heating element. A droplet handling area is disposed between the first substrate and the second substrate and includes at least one fluid input port for introducing a droplet into the droplet handling area and at least one fluid output port for removing a droplet from the droplet handling area.

In a third embodiment a device for manipulating droplets of fluid includes a first substrate having a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and columns and a second substrate having a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and columns. Each pixel of the first substrate includes a switch coupled to an electrode that is individually controllable to move a fluid droplet. Each pixel of the second substrate includes a switch coupled to a heating element that is individually controllable to heat a droplet proximate to the heating element. The second substrate is affixed to and underneath the first substrate. A droplet handling area is disposed above the first substrate and includes at least one fluid input port for introducing a droplet into the droplet handling area and at least one fluid output port for removing a droplet from the droplet handling area. The droplet handling area may be protected from above by a third substrate.

The following is a detailed description for carrying out embodiments of the invention. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the example embodiments of the invention.

Use of the term biochip throughout this disclosure is not intended to imply a limitation of the disclosed device to only biological or biomedical applications. It will be understood that the disclosed device due to its ability to perform in a wide variety of fields may also be described as a lab on a chip device.

Referring to in an example embodiment a digital biochip with dual active matrix circuitry illustrates a method to overcome the complexity of channel based biochip devices by using droplet based digital microfluidics to manipulate liquid droplets. According to the electrowetting on dielectric EWOD phenomenon liquid droplets on a dielectric material may be manipulated based on changes in surface energy resulting from the presence of an electric charge at the interface of the liquid droplet and the dielectric material. Therefore a droplet can be actuated by an electrode located beneath the dielectric material upon which the droplet resides thus greatly reducing the clutter of channel based fluidic systems by separating fluidic components from actuation components. The EWOD phenomenon is not limited to aqueous solutions other solvent and ionic liquid droplets can also be used.

The droplet handling area of the digital biochip consists of a large two dimensional array of unbounded microfluidic tracks forming imaginary fluid conduits on which individual droplets on the order of microliters to picoliters are actuated by the EWOD effect. Liquid droplets are introduced into the droplet handling area through fluid input ports along two edges of the biochip and are expelled through fluid output ports along opposing edges of the biochip . Liquid droplets are actuated along an ultrahydrophobic surface which reduces the driving voltage needed to move the droplets. In one embodiment the ultrahydrophobic surface may be a fluoropolymer such as Teflon AF. The ultrahydrophobic surface may be applied to the actuating substrate using well known methods such as spin coating and or dip coating. The ultrahydrophobic surface additionally allows the biochip to be easily cleaned by running pure de ionized water over the surface due to its hydrophobic properties allowing the biochip to be reused without worrying about cross contamination.

Actuation of the liquid droplets is controlled by electrodes not depicted in for purposes of clarity distributed in an actuating active matrix array disposed on an actuating substrate located below the ultrahydrophobic surface . Pixels are formed by the intersection of row and column bus lines of the actuating active matrix array . Each electrode resides in a pixel and is electrically coupled to a switching transistor as will be described in further detail below.

A heating active matrix array disposed on a heating substrate is incorporated above the droplet handling area of the biochip. Pixels are formed by the intersection of row and column bus lines of the actuating heating active matrix array . In one embodiment the heating active matrix array may contain an identical number of pixels as the actuating active matrix array such that each pixel of the heating active matrix array corresponds to a pixel of actuating active matrix array . Rather than an electrode used to actuate liquid droplets however each pixel of the heating active matrix array contains a micro resistive heating element not depicted in for purposes of clarity that generates heat as a result of current flowing through the element when the specific pixel is selected. In one embodiment each pixel of the heating active matrix array may additionally contain a temperature sensing element having an output current or voltage that is a function of temperature. The temperature sensing elements may provide signals to a biochip control device allowing the control device to provide individual temperature control for each liquid droplet. The individual control of droplet temperature adds further flexibility in addressing analytical and synthetic tasks when heating is required.

In one embodiment the micro resistive heating elements may be composed of metal wires polysilicon or conductive oxide materials such as indium tin oxide ITO fluorine doped tin oxide SnO or zinc oxide ZnO . These conductive oxides are transparent and may therefore allow optical techniques such as fluorescence to be used to monitor and characterize the reactions inside a droplet of the biochip in real time.

Spacer separates heating substrate from actuating substrate and allows for the actuation of liquid droplets within droplet handling area . Spacer is illustrated more clearly in . The actuating active matrix array and heating active matrix array face towards the droplet handling area . Stated differently each of the actuating and heating active matrix arrays are formed on a top of their respective substrates and the biochip is assembled with the tops of the actuating substrate and heating substrate facing droplet handling area . In the illustrated embodiment biochip is protected by top cap glass substrate .

Due to the characteristics of active matrix circuitry each pixel can be individually addressed without interfering with any other pixels in the array thus achieving the ability to address individual droplets in a huge array. Accordingly liquid droplets may be individually actuated by the actuating active matrix array and individually heated by the heating active matrix array . This characteristic allows for parallel processing of multiple droplets contemporaneously. Furthermore active matrix circuitry is a robust technology that has been widely used in high information content that panel displays such as laptop screens that contain millions of pixels. The proposed biochip therefore could be scaled up to handle tens of thousands or even millions of droplets simultaneously bringing unprecedented power to scientists and engineers for advanced applications.

In one embodiment the biochip device may be constructed such that fluidic control instruments such as micropumps and microvalves that facilitate the introduction of fluid droplets to the biochip and the active matrix circuitry signals that actuate and heat the droplets are controlled from a common device. For example both fluidic and active matrix circuitry controls may interface with a computer allowing easy control of the biochip and dynamic reconfiguration of the biochip through software installed on a single device.

In one embodiment the software may incorporate droplet manipulation algorithms which serve as the user biochip interface. The fundamental steps of droplet handling are droplet moving merging and splitting. Any analytical or synthetic task can be broken down into a sequential combination of these fundamental steps regardless of the task s size and complexity. Active matrix driving algorithms to achieve these fundamental steps will serve as building blocks for developing application specific protocols. With these algorithms end users need only focus on developing their application protocols based on the physics and chemistry of their task and can accomplish their goals without any knowledge of the lower level construction of the biochip. The abstraction of real world application from biochip construction and droplet handling enables the biochip to be dynamically reconfigured for almost any tasks through computer software achieving ultimate flexibility and usability.

Referring to in an example embodiment a spacer forms the droplet handling area of biochip . Spacer may be formed from a material such as glass with various portions etched away to form the droplet handling area of biochip . An area within the inner perimeter of spacer may correspond approximately to the location of the electrical circuitry of actuating active matrix array and heating active matrix array on their respective substrates while an outer perimeter of spacer may allow for the placement of connector to deliver electrical signals to the actuating and heating circuitry. As is illustrated fluid droplets may be manipulated within the area inside the inner perimeter of spacer . Holes along two edges of spacer extend through spacer from top to bottom forming fluid input reservoirs . Fluid may be introduced to the fluid input reservoirs by means of tubing connected to the fluid input reservoirs . Tubing may be on the order of approximately one millimeter in diameter. The flow of fluid to the biochip may be controlled by off chip fluidic instrumentation such as micropumps and microvalves. Fluid droplets are transmitted from fluid input reservoirs to the actuating active matrix array through fluid input ports etched as horizontal channels in spacer between fluid input reservoirs and the inner perimeter of spacer .

Along two edges of spacer opposite fluid input ports holes extend through spacer from top to bottom forming fluid output reservoirs . Fluid droplets may be transmitted from the actuating active matrix array to fluid output reservoirs via fluid output ports etched as horizontal channels between the inner perimeter of spacer and fluid output reservoirs . Fluid from the output reservoirs may be manually transmitted from the biochip to an analysis device for example by pipette. Accordingly fluid can be withdrawn from an output reservoir and then a different sample can be transmitted to the same output reservoir using the actuating matrix array . Alternatively fluid could be automatically transmitted from output reservoirs to analysis equipment by means of tubing connected to output reservoirs in which case output reservoirs may mirror input reservoirs .

In the depicted embodiment the vertical holes forming fluid input reservoirs and output reservoirs may also extend through heating substrate and top cap glass . In an alternate embodiment as described in detail below actuating and heating circuitry may be either formed on a single substrate or on two stacked substrates below the droplet handling area . In either case spacer may be modified to both form the droplet handling area as well as serve as top cap glass . In such an embodiment the inner perimeter of spacer may only be recessed rather than removed such that spacer might cover droplet handling area .

Referring to certain elements of the example embodiment depicted in have been removed in order to illustrate the heating and actuating circuitry of the biochip. As was depicted in a droplet handling area is formed between a heating substrate and an actuating substrate upon which the heating active matrix array and actuating active matrix array are formed respectively.

The formation of the actuating active matrix circuitry of an individual actuating pixel on actuating substrate is illustrated. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art an actuating transistor is formed as a field effect transistor in the actuating substrate at each actuating pixel . A source and drain of the actuating transistor are formed in the substrate with a gate formed as a polysilicon layer. In one embodiment the actuating transistor is formed as a Thin Film Transistor TFT so the substrate in such an embodiment would include a thin poly crystalline silicon layer for example. Also included in the substrate would be a bulk material such as glass for carrying the thin polysilicon layer. While TFT technology can be used to build the active devices disclosed herein the Figures assume for simplicity that a more traditional crystalline semi conductive substrate is used although as just mentioned this is not strictly necessary.

In the depicted embodiment the gate of actuating transistor is electrically connected to a column bus line denoted as Ca i.e. column actuating of the actuating active matrix array and a drain of actuating transistor is electrically connected to a row bus line denoted as Ra i.e. row actuating of the actuating active matrix array . Alternatively the drain may be electrically connected to a column bus line and the gate connected to a row bus line to achieve the same result. Actuating transistor serves as a switch such that application of a voltage to a particular column bus line electrically couples a drain of the actuating transistor to an electrode having a first plate electrically connected to a source connection of actuating transistor . As is illustrated the first plate of electrode is formed from a first metal layer. The second plate represents the droplet being moved with the ultrahydrophobic surface between the metal and the droplet acting as the dielectric in the capacitor. The bias provided to the second plate is ultimately provided by the pixel to which the droplet is to be moved i.e. pixel in as explained further below. Although application of a voltage to a particular column bus line will electrically couple a drain of actuating transistor to an electrode for each of the actuating transistors electrically connected to the particular column bus line subsequent application of a voltage to a particular row bus line will cause electrical charge to accumulate only at the electrode located in the actuating pixel connected to the particular column bus line and the particular row bus line. Accordingly each electrode has a unique address according to its connection to a single row bus line and a single column bus line of the actuating active matrix array .

Similarly a heating transistor is formed as a field effect transistor in the heating substrate at each heating pixel . Like actuating transistor a source and drain of the heating transistor are formed in the substrate which again can comprise a TFT substrate as noted earlier with a gate formed as a polysilicon layer. In the depicted embodiment a gate of heating transistor is electrically connected to a column bus line denoted as Ch i.e. column heating of the heating active matrix array and a drain of heating transistor is electrically connected to a row bus line denoted as Rh i.e. row heating of the heating active matrix array . Like actuating transistor heating transistor serves as a switch. However application of a voltage to a particular column bus line of heating active matrix array electrically couples a drain of the heating transistor to a micro resistive heating element connected to ground. Heating element is electrically connected to a source connection of heating transistor at one end and a ground reference at another end by means of a first metal layer. Heating element is illustrated as being formed from a polysilicon layer however heating element may also be formed from a metal or conductive oxide material. Again although application of a voltage to a particular column bus line will electrically couple a drain of heating transistor to a micro resistive heating element for each of the heating transistors electrically connected to the particular column bus line subsequent application of a voltage to a particular row bus line will cause current to flow only through the heating element located in the heating pixel connected to the particular column bus line and the particular row bus line. Accordingly each heating element has a unique address according to its connection to a single row bus line and a single column bus line of the heating active matrix array . With a particular column bus enabled the amount of current flowing through heating element and thus the heat generated by the element can be adjusted by varying the voltage applied to a row bus of a selected heating element . In one embodiment depending upon the resistance of heating element the applied voltage may measure approximately 5 10 Volts.

As noted above in one embodiment the field effect transistor in each pixel of both the actuating active matrix army and the heating active matrix array may be made of thin film semiconductor such as amorphous silicon polycrystalline silicon semiconductor nanowires semiconducting carbon nanotubes semiconducting chalcogenide glass or organic semiconductors.

Referring to in an example embodiment a second implementation of the dual active matrix circuitry biochip is illustrated. The heating active matrix circuitry and the actuating active matrix circuitry may be formed on their respective substrates in the same manner as described above with respect to however in the illustrated embodiment actuating substrate is stacked on heating substrate and droplet handling area is disposed above the substrates rather than between the substrates. As is illustrated actuating active matrix array and heating active matrix array are formed on a top of their respective substrates and the top of heating substrate is affixed to the bottom of actuating substrate . For purposes of clarity the actuating substrate and heating substrate are depicted as separated by a relatively large isolation layer . In reality isolation layer is a thin layer of dielectric material that electrically and physically isolates the actuating circuitry from the heating circuitry. Each heating pixel is aligned with a corresponding actuating pixel . Heat generated by heating elements in heating pixels is transferred through the dielectric isolation layer and through actuating substrate to individual liquid droplets in the droplet handling area above actuating substrate . Because the droplet handling area is above the heating and actuating substrates the depicted embodiment includes a third substrate top cap glass to protect droplet handling area . However top cap glass may not be necessary if it is acceptable for fluid droplets to be exposed to ambient conditions. The depicted embodiment may provide advantages for applications in which optical access to the individual droplets is desirable. For example the depicted embodiment may more easily enable the use of optical techniques such as fluorescence to monitor droplet reactions as droplet handling area is located above the actuating and heating components rather than sandwiched between.

Referring to in an example embodiment a further implementation of the dual active matrix circuitry of the biochip is illustrated. In the illustrated embodiment actuating active matrix array and heating active matrix array are formed on a single substrate. While row and column bus lines for actuating and heating are provided on the same substrate they are electrically isolated such that the ability to independently heat and actuate fluid droplets is maintained. The electrical components for actuating and heating are formed on the single substrate in a similar manner as in the embodiments described above however pixels and form combined pixel that includes an actuating transistor and electrode as well as a heating transistor and heating element . In the illustrated embodiment heating element is formed in a polysilicon layer that wraps around the electrode in pixel . Furthermore each pixel is electrically connected to independently controllable actuating row and column bus lines and heating row and column bus lines. The illustrated embodiment provides the optical access benefits of the embodiment illustrated in and further provides for direct heating of individual fluid droplets as opposed to the conductive heating of the embodiment illustrated in . As described above with reference to an additional substrate i.e. top cap glass may be placed above the single substrate to protect droplet handling area . Again if it is permissible to expose droplet handling area to ambient conditions top cap glass may not be necessary.

Referring to in the depicted embodiment a sequence of droplet movements is illustrated. On the left side a droplet s current location on an actuating active matrix array is depicted. An arrow within the droplet illustrates a desired movement from the current location. On the right side of each figure the same active matrix array is depicted without the droplet. A shaded pixel indicates the particular electrode that should be energized in order to perform the desired move.

As can be seen a droplet overlaps multiple pixels of actuating active matrix array . The application of a voltage to a particular electrode in the actuating active matrix array results in electrical charge accumulation in a portion of the droplet in contact with the dielectric material directly above the energized electrode. This charge accumulation results in changes in surface energy at the liquid dielectric interface and allows for droplet movement according to the EWOD principle. Although the voltage required to induce desired movements is dependent upon the composition of the fluid droplet and the dielectric material the shaded pixels in the embodiment depicted in are described as energized by an 80V source. Because droplet manipulation requires that a droplet overlap multiple pixels it will be understood that droplets will not be introduced at each row of pixels. For instance each fluid input port may introduce a fluid droplet into a certain zone of several rows or columns of pixels such that the droplet may be manipulated within its zone without physically or electrically affecting other droplets in the array.

Referring to a droplet is centrally located at pixel R C. It is desired to move the droplet to pixel R C. Application of 80V to the electrode located at R C results in electrical charge accumulation at that portion of the droplet in contact with R C and causes the droplet to move in that direction.

Similarly referring to once the droplet has arrived at pixel R C it may be desired to move the droplet to pixel R C. Application of 80V to the electrode at R C again causes the droplet to move in that direction.

Referring to after the droplet has been moved to pixel R C it may be desired to split the droplet into two droplets. The simultaneous application of 80V to electrodes at pixels R C and R C causes the droplet to split into two equal droplets located at pixels R C and R C.

Subsequently it may be desired to merge the droplets back into a single droplet. Referring to application of 80V to the electrode located at pixel R C results in the droplets located at pixels R C and R C merging into a single droplet located at R C as illustrated in .

Referring to a simple example of the large number of simultaneous reactions that can be performed using the biochip device is illustrated. The illustrated embodiment depicts a theoretical reaction of varying concentrations of solution A with varying concentrations of solution B. Three concentrations of solution A 5 10 and 20 are introduced through fluid input ports along one edge of the biochip. Each concentration of solution A is duplicated such that reactions can be performed at two different temperatures utilizing the heating active matrix array . Although illustrates each concentration of solution A as being provided through two separate fluid input ports it will be understood that each concentration of solution A may also be introduced through a single input port with droplets manipulated to the proper location using the active matrix array . Six concentrations of solution B 5 10 20 30 40 and 50 are introduced through fluid input ports along an edge of the biochip adjacent to the introduction of solution A. Droplets on the array depict the reaction resulting from the merging of a solution A droplet with a solution B droplet at the intersection of the particular row and column of the solutions. Moreover the temperature maintained by the heating active matrix array is indicated within the droplet. The following table illustrates the large number of unique reaction conditions capable of being performed simultaneously using this simple example.

As illustrated in a large number of reactions of varying conditions can be performed simultaneously utilizing the dual active matrix biochip. A researcher may therefore quickly identify optimal conditions for a proposed reaction using very small liquid volumes.

The implementation of dual active matrix circuitry to provide for independent actuation and heating of liquid droplets as well as the ability to customize the biochip with computer software to suit application specific needs overcomes major limitations of conventional biochip devices. The biochip can conceivably be scaled up to handle more than a million droplets at one time for tackling complex analytical and synthetic problems. The biochip also minimizes contamination by using ultrahydrophobic surfaces. It can be easily cleaned and recycled for different tasks and therefore incurs very low cost overhead in practical usage. Envisioned applications of the biochips include genomic and proteomic analyses immunoassays single cell study clinical diagnostics toxin and environmental monitoring new drug development fine chemical synthesis and more. Further integration of components such as light emitting devices photodetectors advanced pixel biasing schemes immobilization schemes bio and chemical sensors and application specific functionalities electrophoresis and dielectrophoresis in a droplet or a fluid segment into the active matrix pixels is possible to incorporate more functionality into the biochip.

The massive parallelism and unlimited sequential droplet operations provide unprecedented fluid processing power and allow scientists and engineers to tackle complex biological research problems previously deemed prohibitive allowing the biochip to be used as a great tool for scientific discovery and engineering development. Furthermore this biochip can be used for complex fluid pre or post processing when integrated with other existing application specific lab on a chip devices. In such an arrangement the disclosed biochip device may be considered a central fluidic processing unit CFPU analogous to a central processing unit CPU in a microelectronic system which will bring revolution to biochip design and development. Modular integration has led to great success in the microelectronic industry. By combining the CFPU with various application specific lab on a chip modules complex analytical and synthetic systems can be achieved with ease for advanced biomedical applications.

Proteomics is an increasingly important research topic in biological and biomedical research after genomics. The goal of proteomics research is to determine the structures and functions of proteins on a large scale. Production of high quality protein crystals is the first step in determining their three dimensional structures. However protein crystallization is affected by many factors such as temperature pH precipitants and concentrations of the protein solutions. Current screening for protein crystallization is mainly based on trial and error techniques to find the optimal crystallization conditions which requires a large number of tests to be carried out for each protein. Though such large scale screening can be performed by automatic tools there is a growing trend in developing microfluidic devices to further reduce the time labor and the amount of protein sample that are needed in screening tests.

The disclosed biochip is an ideal tool in determining the optimal crystallization conditions from a large number of trials. Screening experiments for protein crystallization may be carried out with the biochip. The biochip may be employed to complete two different tasks. First a series of protein and salt solutions with different concentrations can be automatically prepared by the digital biochip. Starting from a concentrated solution tower concentration solutions can be achieved by mixing a droplet of the protein or the salt solution with a droplet of a buffer solution or water. The volume of each droplet may be on the order of a microliter. The merged droplets can be split into two droplets each with a concentration equal to half of the parent protein or salt solution. The droplet can be mixed again with a droplet from the parent solution or buffer solution to further adjust increase or decrease its concentration. After a series of droplet moving merging and splitting a group of droplets with a series of concentration levels can be achieved without any human intervention. After the droplets of desired concentrations are achieved the biochip may perform a second task of combining the protein and salt solutions to search for the optimal condition for protein crystallization. This can be easily achieved by the digital biochip through row and column fluid input ports. Protein solutions of various concentrations can be connected to the row inputs and salt solutions of various concentrations can be connected to the column inputs. The digital biochip will combine each droplet in a row with every droplet in a column thus an array of crystallization experiments can be processed simultaneously. After incubation protein crystals can be observed with a polarizing microscope. During the test the humidity can be controlled to minimize droplet evaporation. The first and second tasks can all be automatically and seamlessly performed on the biochip in sequence. The biochip can be easily cleaned by running de ionized water droplets through the pixels in the array after the experiment allowing a subsequent batch of tests can be conducted immediately. After the optimal crystallization condition is found the same digital biochip can be quickly reconfigured to perform biosynthesis operations by making and mixing protein and salt droplets with optimized concentrations. This allows a relatively large amount of high quality crystals to be synthesized for structural analysis by XRD.

The foremost task of an effective chemical and biological defense is the fast and sensitive detection and accurate identification of chemical and biological warfare agents. With its capability and flexibility the proposed digital biochip can greatly advance the state of the art of a portable detection system for chemical and biological threat agents.

The desired qualities of modern day chemical and biological detection technologies are sensitivity detecting low concentration selectivity minimizing interference from other species in solution to avoid false report specificity identifying the warfare agents accurately and multi analytes capability simultaneous detection of multiple hazards such as bacterial toxins virus and chemicals in one sample . For in field detection and identification additional requirements are portability fast response multiple matrices capability dirt mud water blood and other body fluids with minimal sample pre processing and high throughput capability to handle a large number of samples in a short time . Current detection technologies can be divided into two major categories mass spectrometry MS and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA . There are multiple variations in each category mainly differing in the methods of sample preparation and the implementation of detection mechanisms. Mass spectrometry is highly sensitive highly specific and capable of identifying and quantifying unknown agents simultaneously. However it requires access to sophisticated mass spectrometer equipment and data analysis requires highly trained personnel. Coupled with its high cost these disadvantages make it impractical for point of care detections on a battlefield. ELISA is also a well established technology that has high sensitivity. The main disadvantages of the traditional ELISA are lengthy assay time and limited throughput due to multiple washing steps. Nowadays simultaneous detection of a large number of warfare agents is imperative because the details of a chemical and biological attack cannot be known up front thus conventional ELISA technology is also unsuitable for field applications.

The proposed digital biochip can be configured as a detection platform based on immunoassays and it can overcome the aforementioned problems in MS and ELISA technologies. For chemical and biological threat agent detection different antibodies can be introduced at the row fluid input and different samples to be analyzed can be introduced at the column fluid input. By moving mixing and splitting droplets immunoassays can be accomplished by combining a droplet from the antibody solutions and a droplet from the samples. Large numbers of assays depending on the number of rows and columns can be performed simultaneously. Since the size of the active matrix array is virtually unlimited this biochip can detect and identify a huge number of chemical and biological warfare agents in one test. The throughput is very high due to the parallel processing of multiple samples. The digital biochip may also be configured to perform multiple analyses of the same sample for better repeatability to minimize false reports. Recent developments of novel separation techniques e.g. solid surface binding with magnetic microspheres and detection mechanisms e.g. fluorescence enhancement by surface plasma resonance and quantum dot based fluorophores in immunoassay technology have improved its sensitivity and reduced assay time. The freedom in performing assay in a droplet allows these technologies to be seamlessly integrated into the biochip to achieve the best performance. Based on the performance of currently reported detection techniques a proposed digital biochip with a 32 32 array can perform 256 assays simultaneously for 16 threat agents in 16 samples with detection sensitivity better than 0.1 ng ml and assay time shorter than 5 minutes which are all great improvements over the state of the art capability and performance. All assays are done fully automatically through driving the active matrix circuitry from a control board. Since the operation principles of the digital biochip are independent of a specific application such abstraction in biochip implementation allows for the same biochip to be used for different biological and chemical assays once the assay protocol is established and optimized based on the physics and chemistry of the assay task. Coupled with a huge array size this feature ensures that the digital biochip will be able to detect and identify future unknown hazardous materials with unbounded potential. The ability to combine these advantages into a single platform ensures that the biochip is a viable solution for real time and in field multi analyte threat agent detection and identification.

In new drug discovery it is often necessary to perform a large amount of biochemical reactions to select the most effective drugs from a large pool of candidates. This can be a tedious process that costs tremendous amounts of time and resources. The fully automated digital biochip is ideally suited for this purpose it automates large parallel reactions to quickly sieve through drug candidates to identify the most efficacious target. Due to its virtually unlimited scaling power the digital biochip may dramatically speed up the discovery of new drugs while at the same time significantly lowering the cost of research and development.

Microarrays are a widely used and powerful technique for modern day biological research and bioengineering. A microarray substrate contains two dimensional microscopic spots on a fiat surface. Depending on the chemical and biological content inside the spot microarrays can be categorized into DNA protein antibody tissue cellular and chemical compound microarrays. Each type of array is very useful in specific chemical and biological applications. Currently microarray fabrication requires complicated fabrication schemes which involve many lithographic steps. The cost of microarrays can be very high which limits their applications.

The novel digital biochip can be used to print custom microarrays with high throughput and low cost. The pre designed array information can be sent to the digital biochip which will generate droplets that contain specific chemical or biological reagents. The digital biochip can then arrange the droplets into a 2D array on its surface. A substrate that has a hydrophilic surface can be brought into contact to the top of the droplets. Upon contacting the droplets will be transferred to the substrate. When droplets evaporate they deposit the chemical and biological reagents inside the droplet onto the substrate surface completing the fabrication of 2D microscopic spots. The disclosed heating active matrix array may be used to increase the rate of evaporation. By simply changing the content in the droplet all types of microarray substrates can be fabricated with ease. This technique is particularly powerful in terms of generating custom microarrays rather than commercially available microarrays that are produced with standard libraries in batches.

It is to be understood that the above description and examples are intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. For example the above described embodiments may be used in combination with each other. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention therefore should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

