---

title: Electronic commerce file system
abstract: In various example embodiments, a system and method for an electronic commerce file system are provided. In example embodiments, a selection of an item contained in a folder of an electronic commerce file system is received. The item is offered for sale by an electronic commerce provider, and the electronic commerce file system resides locally on a client device. Based on a type of the folder, a set of actions are provided for selection, with the set of actions to be performed with respect to the item. A selection of an action to be performed with respect to the item is received. The action is performed with respect to the item, with the action being performed between the electronic commerce file system and the electronic commerce provider via a network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552597&OS=09552597&RS=09552597
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09552597
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120217
---
The present disclosure generally relates to a data organization system and in specific example embodiments to an electronic commerce file system.

Electronic commerce today generally consists of commerce transacted on a website of an Internet retailer. Users are able to search and browse for items presented on web pages and can purchase items by placing them in a virtual shopping cart maintained on the Internet retailer website for check out. Recent advances have extended electronic commerce to mobile devices where users may use apps to transact electronic commerce. Despite the recent advances users generally still must access a website or app to conduct electronic commerce transactions.

The description that follows includes systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments of the present invention. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Additionally although various example embodiments discussed below focus on an electronic commerce environment the embodiments are given merely for clarity in disclosure. Thus any type of electronic marketplace publication electronic commerce social networking search provider operating system or electronic business system and method including various system architectures may employ various embodiments of the electronic commerce file system system and method described herein and may be considered as being within a scope of example embodiments. Each of a variety of example embodiments is discussed in detail below.

Example embodiments described herein provide systems and methods for an electronic commerce file system for use in transacting electronic commerce. In example embodiments an electronic commerce file system hereinafter eCFS may reside on a client device and may control a user s electronic commerce interactions with one or more electronic commerce providers. In some embodiments the eCFS may be considered as an application layer residing above the operating system layer that leverages the file system structure of the operating system to create an electronic commerce based file system. In other embodiments the eCFS may be an application a browser extension a plug in or a widget capable of interfacing with electronic commerce provider websites.

In some embodiments the eCFS comprises one or more containers folders that are each capable of storing files that represent items in which a user has expressed some degree of interest. In some embodiments the files may be wrappers that encapsulate information about an item offered for sale by a third party commerce provider. In other embodiments the files may be records that have various attributes capable of being actionable or linked to external content such as content residing on a third party system . Each container may be capable not only of interfacing with third party websites but may contain logic that enables the container to perform certain actions with respect to the files contained in the container. In addition each file may have logic associated therewith that enables actions to be performed with respect to the item represented by the file. In some embodiments the eCFS may perform shopping cart functions in an offline or off website environment thereby enabling a user to continue transacting electronic commerce without remaining on a website of a commerce provider. Off line actions may be synchronized with one or more third party systems at a predetermined time. In some embodiments depending on the type of container different actions may be performed with respect to the items included in the container or with respect to items not yet included in the container.

In some embodiments items listed on any website or app may be added to one or more containers hereinafter folders through functionality such as drag and drop or buttons. When an item is added to a folder logic in the folder may cause the folder to interface with the website or app on which the item was listed to extract or retrieve data including metadata related to the item. This data may be used to populate the file corresponding to the item in some embodiments the folder may contain logic that enables the folder to continually update the data concerning the item. The folder may offer various actions that may be performed with respect to the item. For example a user may decide to buy an item from the folder thereby resulting in the eCFS interfacing with the website to consummate the purchase of the item.

In some embodiments a rules engine of the eCFS may permit a user to specify rules that govern what items are added to folders and how items are to be treated once contained in the folders. For example based on specified rules the eCFS may initiate a search on its own for items meeting the specified rules and may populate folders with items meeting the criteria of the rules. In other embodiments alerts and notifications may be generated based on certain criteria being met in the rules. In these embodiments the eCFS may monitor certain items or websites for changes or events that trigger the criteria set forth in the rules.

In some embodiments notifications and alerts may be based on traffic monitoring such as through a communication fabric or framework that couples sellers buyers services and capabilities. The traffic may identify a sale or price lowering of an item a change in the availability of an item or the listing of an item for sale which is identified by a rule in the eCFS.

In some embodiments the format of the eCFS is replicated on a website so as to provide a common interface for the user. As today s computer users are most familiar with the folder structure such as on the PC desktop wherein files and documents are organized within the folder structure. For example a user may have a file labeled Office Documents with a subfolder labeled Office Equipment. The subfolder may be viewed to list all of those items that the user has purchased for the office and further lists those items the user desires to purchase. When the user visits a website of an office supply store the shopping cart may be replaced or supplemented by a local folder structure consistent with the eCFS. The local folder identifies the items desired that are for sale at that store. In some embodiments the local folder may include items purchased with comparison pricing and so forth. The user may drag and drop items into the local folder such as a new item for purchase the new item will appear in the local folder and the eCFS folder on the user s device. Note that the eCFS folder may be replicated on multiple devices such as mobile device PC and so forth wherein the folders sync to maintain consistency. The use of a local folder allows the user to shop and discover items at the office supply store online with a familiar format. Further by implementing the local folder the web store allows easy access directly. When the user desires to purchase an item the local folder may be updated to identify those items for purchase and then drag and dropped into a shopping cart or purchase button icon logo and so forth to complete the purchase.

In some embodiments the shopping site may implement a purchase folder where items to purchase are placed in the folder. Items may be dragged into the purchase folder from the desk top eCFS folder. In some embodiments the web store purchase folder may have an alias on the user s desktop the user may add items to the purchase folder on the desktop to initiate a purchase. The aliased purchase folder includes rules to facilitate the purchase. While the example systems provided herein illustrate an ecommerce system and associated file system the file system and structure may be applied to other environments as well. For example the folder and file structure may be applicable to a social networking site or a search engine wherein the folders are defined according to the subject matter used therein. In one example the folder structure on the desk top may include multiple search formats where subfolders may identify more detailed narrow search keywords or criteria. In the social networking application the folder system may define circles of friends connections networks wherein the information in each folder is accessed by a specific group of contacts. A variety of other applications are considered which may be implemented in the folder structure. The folder structure is a commonly understand mechanism for information organization and retrieval and therefore serves as a common platform across many applications and environments. The folder structure is intuitive and easy to use.

By using the example embodiments disclosed herein a user will be provided with a system for enhancing their electronic commerce experience. Accordingly one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may expand a user s electronic commerce experience by removing the experience from within a website such that a user may have access to the electronic commerce experience from any computing environment. Additionally by automating certain electronic commerce tasks efficiency and simplicity of transacting electronic commerce is increased for the user s benefit.

With reference to an example embodiment of a high level client server based network architecture to enable personalization of search results is shown. A networked system in an example form of a network server side functionality is coupled via a communication network e.g. the Internet wireless network cellular network or a Wide Area Network WAN to one or more client devices and . illustrates for example a web client operating via a browser e.g. such as the INTERNET EXPLORER browser developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. State and a programmatic client executing on respective client devices and .

The client devices and may comprise a mobile phone desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer or any other computing device having communication capabilities that a user may utilize to access the networked system . In some embodiments the client device may comprise a display module not shown to display information e.g. in the form of user interfaces . In further embodiments the client device may comprise one or more of a touch screen accelerometer camera microphone and UPS device. The client devices and may be a device of a user which is used to perform a transaction involving one or more items within the networked system . In some embodiments the client devices and may include an electronic commerce tile system eCFS . The eCFS may manage electronic commerce transactions between the client devices and and one or more networked systems such as networked system . The eCFS will be discussed in further detail with reference to . In one embodiment the networked system is a network based marketplace that manages items publishes publications comprising item listings of products available on the network based marketplace and manages payments for these marketplace transactions. While the client devices and are shown as capable of communicating with the networked system . It will be appreciated that client device and are capable of communicating and transacting with multiple networked systems.

An Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host a commerce system and a payment system each of which may comprise one or more modules applications or engines and each of which may be embodied as hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. The application servers are in turn coupled to one or more database servers facilitating access to one or more information storage repositories or database s . In one embodiment the databases are storage devices that store information to be posted e.g. publications or listings to the commerce system . The databases may also store digital goods information in accordance with example embodiments.

In example embodiments the commerce system publishes content on a network e.g. Internet . As such the commerce system provides a number of publication and marketplace functions and services to users that access the networked system . In example embodiments the commerce system is discussed in terms of a marketplace environment. However it is noted that the commerce system may be associated with a non marketplace environment such as an informational e.g. search engine or social networking environment.

The payment system provides a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment system allows users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points miles or other forms of currency provide by a private entity in their accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the commerce system or elsewhere on the network . The payment system also facilitates payments from a payment mechanism e.g. a bank account PayPal or credit card for purchases of items via any type and form of a network based marketplace.

While the commerce system and the payment system are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment system may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system . Additionally while the example network architecture of employs a client server architecture a skilled artisan will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to such an architecture. The example network architecture can equally well find application in for example a distributed or peer to peer architecture system. The commerce system and payment system may also be implemented as standalone systems or standalone software programs operating under separate hardware platforms which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

Referring now to an example block diagram illustrating multiple components that in one embodiment are provided within the eCFS system of the client device is shown. In some embodiments the eCFS may be a software abstraction layer residing above an operating system layer or it may be an application browser extension or browser plug in. The eCFS may manage electronic commerce transactions and interactions between the client device and one or more networked systems such as the networked system . The multiple components of the eCFS may be communicatively coupled e.g. via appropriate interfaces either directly or indirectly to each other and to various data sources to allow information to be passed between the components or to allow the components to share and access common data. Furthermore the components may access the one or more storage devices or memory contained in the client device .

While the eCFS is illustrated with multiple modules alternate embodiments may include a different combination of modules alternate modules and fewer modules according to use and application. The various modules may be added independently after the eCFS is established on the user device according to some embodiments.

A file creation module of the eCFS may create files corresponding to items for inclusion in one or more folders of the eCFS . In some embodiments the files may be containers that can store an item object of any format. By standardizing the format of items from different vendors and retailers the eCFS may operate on files irrespective of their source. In other embodiments the files may be wrappers that encapsulate data corresponding to an item obtained from a third party system. In yet other embodiments the files may be records that contain data extracted from an item maintained by a third party system. The files themselves may handle varying types and formats of data including textual data symbols codes audio data video data and audiovisual data.

When an item is selected for inclusion into the folder the folder may create a file corresponding to the item. Depending on the folder holding the file the file may have different properties and actions associated therewith. For example if a folder is a shopping list folder the file may have actions such as buy compare and check for coupon. In some embodiments the file creation module may use the existing data organization structure and commands of the operating system to create folders and files that conform to other folders and files used in the operating system. The file creation module may map or assign additional actions and properties to the files and folders for use with the eCFS .

A metadata extraction module may operate in conjunction with the file creation module to extract data from items maintained by third party systems such as networked system . The metadata extraction module may extract data such as item descriptions prices user reviews auction bids item quantities item discounts and the like from third party systems. As a result it may be possible for the user to view any and all information about an item by selecting the corresponding file in a folder. In other words the user may not have to access the specific commerce provider s application or website to view this information. Rather the user may view this information from the desktop or home interface of the client device . In some embodiments the metadata extraction module may periodically or continually update information contained in the files of the eCFS by interfacing with the third party systems retailers to obtain e.g. by pulling polling requesting updated information. For example the metadata extraction module may refresh or update the price of an item as it changes or may obtain current discounts for an item maintained in the eCFS . In some embodiments the web store or third party may push updates to the user based on previous purchases the user s wish list or other analysis.

An electronic commerce controller module may manage electronic commerce transactions for the eCFS . The controller module may provide functionality to the folders and files and may receive user inputs to perform actions with respect to selected files. The controller module may issue commands and requests to third party systems in response to user inputs. For example if a user wishes to buy an item contained in a folder the user may select the Buy button after selecting the appropriate file in the folder. The controller module may translate the Buy command into the appropriately recognized command for the third party system offering the item and may issue the command to the third party system. The controller module may facilitate the transaction between the user and the third party system such that user involvement is kept to a minimum.

A synchronization module may perform synchronization actions between the eCFS and third party systems as well as among the user devices. The eCFS may be designed such that electronic commerce actions may be performed in an offline manner that is when the user is not connected to a network or is not accessing a website or app of a third party system e.g. retailer . Synchronization may entail interfacing with a third party system and comparing item data stored on the client device with item data maintained by the third party system. In some embodiments the comparison may entail determining when the item data was last updated on either the client device or the third party system to determine which set of data is current. Item data on the client device that is more current may reflect actions performed by a user with respect to the item data including things such as a command to purchase an item a change in the quantity of the item desired to be purchased and so forth. In these cases the synchronization module may transmit the commands and item data changes to the third party system for processing and handling. Item data that is more current on the third party system may reflect an update to the item data such as a change in price change in inventory change in item description and so forth. In these cases the third party system may transmit the changes to the client device to update the item data maintained on the client device . In some cases the third party system may send the changed item data as a delta or differential update to minimize network traffic.

A user preference module may store user preferences concerning electronic commerce transactions. As the eCFS via the electronic commerce controller module may resolve transactions involving items with minimal user involvement it may use user preferences to streamline the electronic commerce transacting process. User preferences may include a preferred shipping address a preferred shipping method one or more saved billing methods e.g. credit card numbers and accounts bank account information stored value account information credits a billing address and the like. The controller module may look up user preferences when conducting a transaction and may use the user preferences to populate the necessary fields to complete the transaction.

In other embodiments the user preference module may monitor user transactions and may derive and store observed user preferences. For example the user preference module may observe that on the first of every month the user buys 2 packages of diapers. The user preference module may store the item brand and quantity among other things of the diapers and in some embodiments may cause an automatic purchase of the 2 packages of diapers on the first of every month. In other embodiments the user preference module may observe that a user always buys branded items over generic labeled items for a particular item. The user preference module may store this preference and apply it to future transactions. In some embodiments the user preference module may track a user s item inventory through the user s purchase of items. For certain items the item inventory may be adjusted by the user as the user consumes the item. By tracking the user s item inventory the user preference module may simplify the task of selling off the user s inventory if the user no longer wishes to keep a particular item. The controller module may then process the item to be sold and arrange for its sale on one or more third party sites e.g. eBay Amazon Craigslist .

A rules engine may generates and enforces rules that apply to the eCFS . A user may specify rules governing various aspects of the eCFS . For example the user may specify a rule to always perform a price comparison of an item on x different retailer sites before making a purchase. In another example the user may specify a rule that a package of toilet paper should be bought every month on the first of the month. Rules may affect other aspects of the eCFS such as searching for items e.g. always search among certain retailer websites only search for items on sale etc. shipping and billing rules e.g. use this credit card for transactions always use 2 day shipping etc. inventory management e g. purchase more of an item if the inventory drops below x items and the like. The controller module may perform a rules check when acting on behalf of the user and may apply any rule whose criteria are met.

There are a variety of rules which may be configured depending on the user preference device capabilities or web store capabilities. Similarly the rules may be built depending on the type of articles sold or processed by the web store. In a social networking environment the rules may identify groups of friends contacts and the handling of information with respect to each group. For digital media sites such as an on demand Internet streaming media service or digital book service the eCFS may be configured to store the digital content purchased rented or consumed on trial. The rules for processing digital media may provide bookmarks commentary and so forth. The rules of handling movies or video may organize according to viewed movies genre recommendations and so forth. The ability to review the lists in a simple folder and file structure allows the user to select those movies or videos to view next.

In some embodiments the rules engine may auto generate its own set of rules based on observed user behavior. In some embodiments the rules engine may operate in conjunction with the user preference module to translate observed user preferences into rules.

An e commerce API module may provide a set of interfaces to the eCFS to interface with third party systems. The interfaces may permit third party systems to communicate with the eCFS . In addition each third party system may publish a set of its own Application Programming Interfaces APIs by which external parties may interface with the third party system. The e commerce API module may use its knowledge of third party APIs to interface with the third party systems such as when the eCFS is transacting with a third party system.

Although the various components of the eCFS have been defined in terms of a variety of individual modules and engines a skilled artisan wilt recognize that many of the items can be combined or organized in other ways and that not all modules or engines need to be present or implemented in accordance with example embodiments. Furthermore not all components of the eCFS have been included in . In general components protocols structures and techniques not directly related to functions of exemplary embodiments have not been shown or discussed in detail. The description given herein simply provides a variety of exemplary embodiments to aid the reader in an understanding of the systems and methods used herein.

Items may be added or dragged from the website to any one of the folders . Items within the folders themselves may be moved from one folder to another folder. Each folder may have an associated set of actions that may be performed on items contained therein and an associated set of properties and attributes. The actions and properties associated with each folder may depend on the type of folder. For example a shopping list may have an associated buy action and an associated check for coupon action while a wish list may have a share action and a publish action associated therewith. Different attributes for each item may be displayed in the folder depending on the type of folder. For example an item displayed in the shopping list folder may have the name price and quantity desired attributes displayed. If the same item is displayed in a wish list folder the item may have its name price and a description of the item displayed.

While the embodiments described in the figures illustrate tabular formats alternate embodiments may implement other structures to implement a folder structure. The columns may be expanded or reduced as desired by the user. The table may be sorted according to a variety of criteria. The eCFS may implement a format that identifies each item by photograph drawing icon and so forth.

At block an item may be added to the folder. The item may be obtained from one or more retailer or electronic commerce provider websites or apps. The item may be dragged and dropped into the folder or may be added into the folder using a script or command. In some embodiments a browser plug in or extension is used to interact with items displayed within websites or apps such that a copy of the item may be extracted and added to the folder. In some embodiments the user may move an item into the folder by an option linked to the item such as a pop menu that appears when the user mouses over the item or clicks on the item. The pop up menu may include a command to add the item to the user s eCFS folder. The web store may then track when each user adds an item to their folder.

At block when an item is added to a folder the eCFS may extract or obtain associated item information from the website or app for inclusion in the folder. Item information may include metadata textual descriptions of the item images video audio and other associated data. The item information may be made available in the folder such that a user does not need to visit the website or app to read about the item rather the user may access the information by accessing the locally stored folder. The user may then investigate and consider each item when not connected to the network or Internet such as when in flight or other area without connectivity.

At decision block the eCFS may check for an update to the item. The eCFS may check for item updates continually on a periodic basis at predetermined intervals or upon the occurrence of an event. If an item update exists at block the eCFS may download the update and apply the update to the existing item information to yield updated item information. Item updates may include event occurrences such as price changes new discounts inventory changes new versions of the item and the like. The example method thereafter may return to decision block to continually monitor for additional updates to the item s in the folder.

If no item update is available at block the eCFS may receive the selection of an item contained in the folder. At block the eCFS may provide the user with a set of actions that may be performed with reference to the selected item. The set of actions may be provided in the form of one or more selectable user interface elements. At block the eCFS may perform an action selected by the user. The action may be transacted between the eCFS and a third party system with minimal user involvement. For example the action may consist of one or more requests and responses between the eCFS and the third party system. In some embodiments at the conclusion of the action the user may receive a confirmation that the action was or was not performed. Following the selection and or performance of an item action the example method may return to decision block to determine if further updates to the item s in the folder are available.

If the action to be performed is not a purchase action the example method proceeds to decision block where it is determined if the action is to share the item. If so at block the item is shared with other users specified by the user. Items may be shared if the item is an item desired by the user that the user wants to inform others about. For example if the item is an item that the user wishes to receive for her birthday the user may share the item with family members to alert them to a possible gift opportunity. The eCFS may arrange for the item to be shared with designated recipients across one or more communication channels. To the extent needed the eCFS may engage third party or external services to perform the sharing. For example the eCFS may engage an e mail program on the client device to generate an email to the designated recipients. The eCFS also may interface with one or more social networks e.g. Facebook Google Twitter to publish the item to designated recipients.

If the action is not to share the item the example method proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the action to be performed is a status check of the item. If so at block a status check of the item may be performed. In some embodiments the status check may entail the eCFS interfacing with a retailer or provider of the item to determine whether the price or available quantity of the item has changed or whether a new version of the item is available. In other embodiments the status check may entail checking on the status of an already purchased item. The eCFS may maintain both purchased and not purchased items in its folders. The eCFS may interface with the retailer or provider of the item or with a shipping carrier to determine a status of an order including one or more of a location of a package containing the item an estimated shipping and or arrival date of the item and the like. If the action to be performed is not a status check the example method may end at termination block .

If the action to be performed is not a move item command the example method proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the action to be performed is a save item command. If so at block the item may be saved in a different location such as a database a remote network storage device a different hard drive or RAM location and the like.

If the action to be performed is not a save item command the example method proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the action to be performed is being performed offline. In some embodiments the eCFS permits offline actions to be taken with respect to items. Offline in some embodiments may mean that the client device is not connected to a network while in other embodiments offline may mean that actions are being performed within the eCFS and not on the retailer website or app. If offline actions are being performed in block the eCFS may synchronize the actions performed with one or more third party systems corresponding to one or more retailers or providers of the items being acted on. Synchronization may correspond to the transmission of requests for information orders for the purchase of items return orders for the return and or refund of items publication of posts about the item to one or more publication sites commands to list or offer an item for sale and the like. If the action to be performed is not an offline action the example method ends at termination block .

If the action to be performed is not an updating of item information the example method proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the rules concern searching for items. If so at block the eCFS may perform a search for items based on criteria specified in the rules. The rules may specify search terms sites to search item criteria that must be met to be returned in a search and the like. The search may be performed both on retailer and item provider websites as well as general purpose search engines. At block the discovered items may be added to the eCFS folders. The items may be analyzed and categorized based on metadata and or user preferences for placement in one or more of the folders.

The four items included in the payment folder are merely examples. It is contemplated that other payment mechanisms and types e.g. checking accounts savings accounts stock accounts may be included in the payment folder .

The shopping folder may include one or more e commerce websites at which the user has browsed for purchased and or sold items. The e commerce websites may include retailer websites electronic marketplaces online classifieds sites online auction sites and so forth. In some embodiments the websites may be separated by preference or popularity with favorite websites being denoted in some manner. In some embodiments the websites may be sorted and or grouped by the type of item sold on the website or by the type of transacting activity occurring on the website or performed by the user on the website websites where the user purchased an item s websites where the user sold an item s . In some embodiments data pertaining to the user s interaction with the website may be stored in the shopping folder . For example if the user purchased an item on site data concerning the transaction e.g. item purchased shipping address used billing address used payment mechanism used may be stored and affiliated with site within the shopping folder .

Although not shown accounting folder may include data used in the accounting of transactions involving the user. For example accounting data may include a history of transactions budget data bank account information transaction ledgers and so forth. The accounting data may enable a user to track an amount spent on various items or categories of items an amount spent per website or store an amount sold in aggregate or per website or store. The accounting data may aid in inventory management and the calculation of sales data and figures.

The social folder may store user contact information user account information for one or more social networking sites user account information to one or more instant message or chat services and so forth. The social folder may interface with one or more social networking sites chat services and the like to retrieve social networking data such as friend requests messages posts recommendations polls interests activities location based data and so forth.

In some embodiments the data stored in the folders of the eCFS may be mapped or linked. For example the user may shop on site and engage in a transaction using credit card . Site and credit card may be mapped to show a relationship between the two pieces of data. Similarly the user may use credit card in a transaction occurring on site and as a result the two folder items may be linked or mapped to each other. In some embodiments the eCFS may include logic that automatically identifies folder items that may be linked based on prior activities. In other embodiments the user may manually link two or more folder items together.

In some embodiments user activities pertaining to one folder may be used to populate folder items in another folder. For example if a user performs shopping and transacting activities on one or more sites e.g. site site site site data pertaining to the transactions may be used to populate other folders such as the payment folder or the accounting folder . The eCFS may determine the type of data to use to populate a folder based on the folder type and or default settings associated with each folder. For example the eCFS may populate the payment folder with payment accounts used to complete transactions on sites included in the shopping folder while the eCFS may know to avoid populating the payment folder with accounting data.

In some embodiments the user may adjust or modify the configuration settings of each folder to specify the types of data to be included within the folder the frequency of updating the types of data to omit from inclusion in the folder and the like. In some embodiments the user may view the mappings for each item in each folder to determine the relationship between the item and items in other folders. For example a user may select credit card in payment folder . The eCFS may generate a visual representation e.g. a graph of the mappings for credit card to enable the user to visually ascertain the items the credit card is linked to. For example the visual representation may illustrate that the user has used credit card in a transaction performed on site maintained in shopping folder and that credit card is currently overdue maintained in accounting folder . The visual representation may further illustrate nth degree connections such as second degree connections involving the credit card. For example the user may visually determine that a recommendation for an item may be a friend was purchased on a retailer website using the credit card with the recommendation and friend data being maintained in the social folder the retailer website data being maintained in the shopping folder and the credit card data being maintained in payment folder .

In some embodiments the user may set default configuration settings within the eCFS regarding the population of items within folders and crosslinking and mapping of items among folders. The eCFS may be instructed to automatically extract pertinent information for use in populating various folders e.g. extracting payment information from a transaction for populating the payment folder . The eCFS also may be instructed to automatically cross link items among folders for visualization and ease of use purposes e.g. credit card is linked to site such that the next time a transaction is performed on site credit card may be automatically used to complete the transaction or may be surfaced as the default payment option for the transaction .

Additionally certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as logic or a number of modules engines components or mechanisms. A module engine logic component or mechanism collectively referred to as a module may be a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and configured or arranged in a certain manner. In certain example embodiments one or more computer systems a standalone client or server computer system or one or more components of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion or firmware note that software and firmware can generally be used interchangeably herein as is known by a skilled artisan as a module that operates to perform certain operations described herein.

In various embodiments a module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or array to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software or firmware to perform certain operations as described herein. It will be appreciated that a decision to implement a module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by for example cost time energy usage and package size considerations.

Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which modules or components are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the modules or components need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the modules or components comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure the processor to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time. The processor may be temporary configured or permanently configured to perform relevant operations. Whether temporarily configured or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions.

Modules can provide information and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the modules. In embodiments in which multiple modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple modules have access. For example one module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output Modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

With reference to an example embodiment extends to a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative example embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router a switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . In example embodiments the computer system also includes one or more of an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software instructions embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium may include a single medium or multiple media a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of embodiments of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable storage media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present invention. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present invention as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

