---

title: Carcinoma diagnosis and treatment, based on genotype
abstract: The present invention provides methods and kits a) for predicting colorectal cancer patient survival, as well as the survival of patients harboring other invasive cancers where cellular proliferation and carcinogenesis is linked, in part, to high levels of ODC activity and increased cellular polyamine contents, and b) for selecting the corresponding treatment options for such patients based on the allelic nucleotide sequence or SNP at position +316 of the ODC1 promoter gene as well as cancer treatment methods, in each case, which include the determination of the ODC1 promoter +316 position genotype, as a means to guide treatment selection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09121852&OS=09121852&RS=09121852
owner: THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION
number: 09121852
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121210
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 780 592 filed May 14 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 217 682 filed Jun. 3 2009 61 217 679 filed Jun. 3 2009 and 61 216 216 filed May 14 2009. The entire contents of each of the above referenced applications are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grants CA72008 EWG CA78134 HAC CA78285 HAC and CA95060 EWG from the National Institute of Health contracts N01 PC 35136 N01 PC 35139 and N01 PC 54404 from the National Cancer Institute and agreement 1U58DP00807 01 from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to the fields of cancer biology and medicine. More particularly it concerns methods for the diagnosis prevention and treatment of carcinomas and risk factors thereof.

A major impediment to the translation of cancer chemoprevention research into clinical practice has been marginal agent efficacy and toxicities that exceed benefit Psaty and Potter 2006 Lippman 2006 . For example the demonstrated marked efficacy of polyamine inhibitory combination of long term daily oral D L difluoromethylornithine DFMO eflornithine and sulindac among colorectal adenoma CRA patients was recently demonstrated Meyskens et al. 2008 however treatment was associated with modest subclinical ototoxicity McLaren et al. 2008 and a greater number of cardiovascular events among patients with high baseline cardiovascular risk Zell et al. 2009 . Identifying genetic features that identify the suitability of a patient for a given preventative or curative treatment regime would be a major benefit.

For example there remains a need for effective and less toxic methods for treating and preventing colorectal cancers and other carcinomas. According to the National Cancer Institute there were approximately 147 000 new cases and 50 000 deaths from colorectal cancer in the United States in 2009. Current treatment protocols especially those for colon cancers and polyps include tumor resection chemotherapy and radiation therapy. A single nucleotide polymorphism SNP in intron 1 of the human ODC1 gene affects ODC1 transcription Guo et al. 2000 and has been investigated as a genetic marker for colorectal adenoma CRA risk Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 . The reported minor A allele frequency is approximately 25 and despite differences across race ethnicity ODC1 genotype distribution is in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium within each race O Brien et al. 2004 Zell et al. 2009 . Individuals homozygous for the ODC1 minor A allele have reduced risk of adenoma recurrence compared to those with the major G allele Martinez et al. 2003 Hubner et al. 2008 . Furthermore the ODC1 A allele AA or GA genotype but not GG genotype and reported aspirin usage have been associated with reduced colon polyp recurrence Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 and a statistically significant 50 reduced risk of advanced adenomas Barry et al. 2006 . Whether the ODC1 genotype differentially affects adenoma recurrence tissue polyamine responses toxicity profiles and how it may be used to determine the suitability of preventative and curative treatments would be a major advantage.

Thus in accordance with the present invention there are provided methods of treatment prevention and or diagnosis related to identifying patient s genotype at position 316 of at least one ODC1 promoter gene allele.

In one aspects there is provided a method for the preventative or curative treatment of carcinoma in a patient comprising 

In some embodiments the second agent also increases the expression of sperm idine spermine N acetyltransferase within the patient. In some embodiments the results are obtained by receiving a report containing said genotype or taking a patient history that reveals the results. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide base at position 316 of one allele of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide bases at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GG. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GA.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first or the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first and the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the first agent is difluoromethylornithine DFMO . In some embodiments the second agent is a non aspirin containing non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID . In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is a selective COX 2 inhibitor. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac or celecoxib. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac.

In another aspect there is provided a method for the treatment of colorectal carcinoma risk factors in a patient comprising 

In some embodiments the second agent also increases the expression of spermidine spermine N acetyltransferase within the patient. In some embodiments the method prevents the formation of new aberrant crypt foci in the patient. In some embodiments the method prevents the formation of new adenomatous polyps in the patient. In some embodiments the method prevents the formation of new adenomas with displasia in the patient. In some embodiments the results are obtained by receiving a report containing said genotype or taking a patient history that reveals the results. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide base at position 316 of one allele of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide bases at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GG. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GA.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first or the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first and the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the first agent is difluoromethylornithine DFMO . In some embodiments the second agent is a non aspirin containing non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID . In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is a selective COX 2 inhibitor. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac or celecoxib. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac.

In another aspect there is provided a method for evaluating the suitability of a patient for preventative or curative treatment of carcinoma comprising 

In some embodiments the second agent also increases the expression of sperm idine spermine N acetyltransferase within the patient. In some embodiments the results are obtained by receiving a report containing said genotype or taking a patient history that reveals the results. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide base at position 316 of one allele of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide bases at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GG. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GA. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first or the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first and the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the first agent is difluoromethylornithine DFMO . In some embodiments the second agent is a non aspirin containing non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID . In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is a selective COX 2 inhibitor. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac or celecoxib. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac.

In another aspect there is provided a method of rendering a carcinoma tumor in a patient resectable comprising 

In some embodiments the results are obtained by receiving a report containing said genotype or taking a patient history that reveals the results. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide base at position 316 of one allele of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide bases at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GG. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GA.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first or the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical therapy further comprises increasing the dosage of the first and the second agent if the patient was already being treated with the pharmaceutical therapy but at a lower dosage prior to obtaining to the results of the test. In some embodiments the first agent is difluoromethylornithine DFMO .

In some embodiments the second agent is a non aspirin containing non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID . In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is a selective COX 2 inhibitor. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac or celecoxib. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac.

In another aspect there is provided a method for preventing the development or recurrence of a carcinoma in a patient at risk therefor comprising 

In some embodiments the results are obtained by receiving a report containing said genotype or taking a patient history that reveals the results. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide base at position 316 of one allele of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide bases at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GG. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GA.

In another aspect there is provided a method for treating a patient at risk for development or recurrence of carcinoma with difluoromethylornithine DFMO and a non aspirin containing non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID comprising administering to the patient effective amounts of difluoromethylornithine DFMO and a non aspirin containing non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID wherein the patient has been identified as having a G at position 316 of at least one ODC1 promoter gene allele.

In some embodiments the genotype identified at position 316 of both of the patient s ODC1 promoter gene alleles is GG. In some embodiments the genotype identified at position 316 of both of the patient s ODC1 promoter gene alleles is GA.

In some embodiments the results are obtained by receiving a report containing said genotype or taking a patient history that reveals the results. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide base at position 316 of one allele of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the test determines the nucleotide bases at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene of the patient. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GG. In some embodiments the results indicate that the patient s genotype at position 316 of both alleles of the ODC1 promoter gene is GA.

In variations on any of the above embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is a selective COX 2 inhibitor. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac or celecoxib. In some embodiments the non aspirin containing NSAID is sulindac. In some embodiments DFMO and sulindac are administered systemically. In some embodiments DFMO and sulindac are administered by distinct routes. In some embodiments the DFMO or the non aspirin containing NSAID is administered orally intraarterially or intravenously. In some embodiments the DFMO is administered orally. In some embodiments the effective amount of DFMO is 500 mg day. In some embodiments the DFMO is administered intravenously. In some embodiments the effective amount of DFMO is from about 0.05 to about 5.0 g m day. In some embodiments the DFMO and the non aspirin containing NSAID is formulated for oral administration. In some embodiments the DFMO and the non aspirin containing NSAID is formulated as a hard or soft capsule or a tablet. In some embodiments the DFMO and the non aspirin containing NSAID is administered every 12 hours. In some embodiments the DFMO and the non aspirin containing NSAID is administered every 24 hours. In some embodiments the effective amount of sulindac is from about 10 to about 1500 mg day. In some embodiments the effective amount of sulindac is from about 10 to about 400 mg day. In some embodiments the effective amount of sulindac is 150 mg day. In some embodiments DFMO is administered prior to sulindac. In some embodiments DFMO is administered after sulindac. In some embodiments DFMO is administered before and after sulindac. In some embodiments DFMO is administered concurrently with sulindac. In some embodiments DFMO is administered at least a second time. In some embodiments sulindac is administered at least a second time.

In variations on any of the above embodiments the patient has a solid tumor and said method further comprises resection of said solid tumor. In some embodiments DFMO and sulindac are administered prior to said resection. In some embodiments DFMO and sulindac are administered after said resection.

In variations on any of the above embodiments the carcinoma is colorectal cancer breast cancer pancreatic cancer brain cancer lung cancer stomach cancer a blood cancer skin cancer testicular cancer prostate cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer or esophageal cancer cervical cancer head and neck cancer non melanoma skin cancer neuroblastoma and glioblastoma. In some embodiments the carcinoma is colorectal cancer. In some embodiments the colorectal cancer is stage I. In some embodiments the colorectal cancer is stage II. In some embodiments the colorectal cancer is stage III. In some embodiments the colorectal cancer is stage IV.

In variations on any of the above embodiments the method prevents the formation of new advanced colorectal neoplasms within the patient. In some embodiments the method prevents ototoxicity or the risk thereof within the patient. In some embodiments the method prevents the formation of new right sided advanced colorectal neoplasms. In some embodiments the method prevents the formation of new left sided advanced colorectal neoplasms.

In variations on any of the above embodiments the patient has been identified as having one or more adenomatous polyps in the colon rectum or appendix. In some embodiments the patient has been identified as having one or more advanced colorectal neoplasms. In some embodiments the patient has been identified as having one or more left side advanced colorectal neoplasms. In some embodiments the patient has been identified as having one or more right sided advanced colorectal neoplasms. In some embodiments the patient has been diagnosed with familial adenomatous polyposis. In some embodiments the patient has been diagnosed with Lynch syndrome. In some embodiments the patient has been diagnosed with familial colorectal cancer type X. In some embodiments the patient satisfies the Amsterdam Criteria or the Amsterdam Criteria II. In some embodiments the patient has a history of resection of one or more colorectal adenomas. In some embodiments the patient has an intraepithelial neoplasia or a precancerous lesion associated ODC hyperactivity. In some embodiments the patient has an intraepithelial neoplasia or a precancerous lesion and elevated cellular polyamine levels.

The use of the word a or an when used in conjunction with the term comprising in the claims and or the specification may mean one but it is also consistent with the meaning of one or more at least one and one or more than one. 

Throughout this application the term about is used to indicate that a value includes the inherent variation of error for the device the method being employed to determine the value or the variation that exists among the study subjects.

The terms comprise have and include are open ended linking verbs. Any forms or tenses of one or more of these verbs such as comprises comprising has having includes and including are also open ended. For example any method that comprises has or includes one or more steps is not limited to possessing only those one or more steps and also covers other unlisted steps.

The term effective as that term is used in the specification and or claims means adequate to accomplish a desired expected or intended result.

As used herein the term IC refers to an inhibitory dose which is 50 of the maximum response obtained.

As used herein the term patient or subject refers to a living mammalian organism such as a human monkey cow sheep goat dog cat mouse rat guinea pig or transgenic species thereof. In certain embodiments the patient or subject is a primate. Non limiting examples of human subjects are adults juveniles infants and fetuses.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable means that which is useful in preparing a pharmaceutical composition that is generally safe non toxic and neither biologically nor otherwise undesirable and includes that which is acceptable for veterinary use as well as human pharmaceutical use.

 Prevention or preventing includes 1 inhibiting the onset of a disease in a subject or patient which may be at risk and or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display any or all of the pathology or symptomatology of the disease and or 2 slowing the onset of the pathology or symptomatology of a disease in a subject or patient which may be at risk and or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display any or all of the pathology or symptomatology of the disease.

 Effective amount Therapeutically effective amount or pharmaceutically effective amount means that amount which when administered to a subject or patient for treating a disease is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease.

 Treatment or treating includes 1 inhibiting a disease in a subject or patient experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease e.g. arresting further development of the pathology and or symptomatology 2 ameliorating a disease in a subject or patient that is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease e.g. reversing the pathology and or symptomatology and or 3 effecting any measurable decrease in a disease in a subject or patient that is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease.

The above definitions supersede any conflicting definition in any of the reference that is incorporated by reference herein. The fact that certain terms are defined however should not be considered as indicative that any term that is undefined is indefinite. Rather all terms used are believed to describe the invention in terms such that one of ordinary skill can appreciate the scope and practice the present invention.

Other objects features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating specific embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description. Note that simply because a particular compound is ascribed to one particular generic formula doesn t mean that it cannot also belong to another generic formula.

In several aspects methods are provided that comprise predicting the suitability efficacy toxicity and or dosage of anti carcinoma combination therapies comprising ornithine decarboxylase ODC inhibitor and a spermidine spermine N acetyltransferase expression agonist based at least in part on the patient s ODC1 promoter genotype.

The present invention also involves the delivery of therapeutic compounds to individuals exhibiting pre cancerous symptoms to prevent the onset of cancer and or to prevent the onset of cancer risk factors such as the formation of new aberrant crypt foci the formation of new adenomatous polyps or new adenomas with dysplasia. Cells of this category include polyps and other precancerous lesions premalignancies preneoplastic or other aberrant phenotype indicating probable progression to a cancerous state based at least in part on the patient s ODC1 promoter genotype.

Excess polyamine formation has long been implicated in epithelial carcinogenesis particularly colorectal carcinogenesis. Polyamines are small ubiquitous molecules involved in various processes including transcription RNA stabilization ion channel gating and others Wallace 2000 . Ornithine decarboxylase ODC the first enzyme in polyamine synthesis is essential for normal development and tissue repair in mammals but is down regulated in most adult tissues Gerner and Meyskens 2004 . Multiple abnormalities in the control of polyamine metabolism and transport result in increased polyamine levels that can promote tumorigenesis in several tissues Thomas and Thomas 2003 .

Polyamine metabolism is up regulated in intestinal epithelial tissues of humans with familial adenomatous polyposis FAP Giardiello et al. 1997 a syndrome associated with high risk of colon and other cancers.

FAP may be caused by mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli APC tumor suppressor gene and APC signaling has been shown regulates ODC expression in both human cells Fultz and Gerner 2002 and in a mouse model of FAP Erdman et al. 1999 .

Wild type APC expression leads to decreased expression of ODC while mutant APC leads to increased expression of ODC. The mechanism of APC dependent regulation of ODC involves E box transcription factors including the transcriptional activator c MYC and the transcriptional repressor MAD1 Fultz and Gerner 2002 Martinez et al. 2003 . c MYC was shown by others to regulate ODC transcription Bellofernandez et al. 1993 . Several genes involved in polyamine metabolism are essential genes for optimal growth in most organisms and are down regulated in non proliferating and or adult cells and tissues Gerner and Meyskens 2004 . The polyamines influence specific cellular phenotypes in part by affecting patterns of gene expression as reviewed elsewhere Childs et al. 2003 .

As described below a strategy involving inhibition of ODC activity i.e. the rate limiting enzyme of polyamine synthesis and or reduction of cellular polyamine levels has demonstrated remarkable efficacy in preventing recurrence of colorectal polyps in humans. Epidemiologic and experimental results from the present research demonstrate conditional regulation of polyamine homeostasis by genetic polymorphism in ODC and suggest a model in which the 316 ODC SNP may be protective for colon adenoma recurrence and detrimental for survival after colon cancer diagnosis. This information may be used for determining colon cancer prognosis. By identifying patients at increased risk for cancer progression recurrence early implementation of tertiary prevention management strategies can be instituted. Additionally this research may be used to identify high risk but otherwise optimally treated locoregional colorectal cancer patients that would benefit from tertiary cancer prevention therapies.

Depending on a patient s diet the excess polyamine problem may be compounded by the fact that polyamines e.g. putrescine is present in many common foods such as orange juice which contains approximately 400 ppm putrescine. In this regard a high polyamine diet is contraindicatory and for some of the embodiments provided herein such a diet is to be avoided. See U.S. Provisional Patent Application by Kavitha P. Raj Jason A. Zell Christine E. McLaren Eugene W. Gerner Frank L. Meyskens and Jeffrey Jacob entitled Cancer Prevention and Treatment Methods Based on Dietary Polyamine Content filed May 14 2010 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Familial Adenomatous Polyposis FAP an inherited polyposis syndrome is the result of germ line mutation of the adenomatous polyposis coli APC tumor suppressor gene Su et al. 1992 . This autosomal dominant condition with variable expression is associated with the development of hundreds of colonic adenomas which uniformly progress to adenocarcinoma by forty years of age two decades earlier than the mean age diagnosis for sporadic colon cancer Bussey 1990 . In prior studies of pre symptomatic individuals with FAP increased levels of the polyamines spermidine and spermine and their diamine precursor putrescine have been detected in normal appearing colorectal biopsies when compared to normal family member controls Giardiello et al. 1997 . The activity of ornithine decarboxylase ODC the first and rate limiting enzyme in mammalian polyamine synthesis also is elevated in apparently normal colonic mucosal biopsies from FAP patients Giardiello et al. 1997 Luk and Baylin 1984 . These findings are of interest as the polyamines are necessary for optimal cell proliferation Pegg 1986 . Further suppression of ODC activity using the enzyme activated irreversible inhibitor DFMO inhibits colon carcinogenesis in carcinogen treated rodents Kingsnorth et al. 1983 Tempero et al. 1989 .

As discussed in greater detail below the Min multiple intestinal neoplasia mouse which shares a mutated APC apc genotype with FAP serves as a useful experimental animal model for human FAP patients Lipkin 1997 . The Min mouse can develop greater than 100 gastrointestinal adenomas adenocarcinomas throughout the gastrointestinal tract by 120 days of life leading to GI bleeding obstruction and death. A combination therapy of DFMO and sulindac was shown to be effective in reducing adenomas in these mice U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 845 Gerner and Meyskens 2004 . The results of treating Min mice with either DFMO alone sulindac alone or a combination of DFMO and sulindac on tumor formation in either the colon or small intestine are shown in .

Activity of ornithine decarboxylase ODC the first enzyme in polyamine synthesis is required for normal growth and is elevated in many cancers including colorectal cancer. Herein associations of the 316 ODC single nucleotide polymorphism SNP with colorectal cancer CRC specific survival among CRC cases were examined and its functional significance in colon cancer cells was investigated.

A single nucleotide polymorphism SNP in intron 1 of the human ODC1 gene affects ODC1 transcription Guo et al. 2000 and has been investigated as a genetic marker for colorectal adenoma CRA risk Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 . The reported minor A allele frequency is approximately 25 and despite differences across race ethnicity ODC1 genotype distribution is in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium within each race O Brien et al. 2004 Zell et al. 2009 . Individuals homozygous for the ODC1 minor A allele have reduced risk of adenoma recurrence compared to those with the major G allele Martinez et al. 2003 Hubner et al. 2008 . Furthermore the ODC1 A allele AA or GA genotype but not GG genotype and reported aspirin usage have been associated with reduced colon polyp recurrence Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 and a statistically significant 50 reduced risk of advanced adenomas Barry et al. 2006 .

The ODC allele specific binding of E box transcription factors was investigated and the functional significance of the 316 ODC SNP located between two E boxes was evaluated E box 2 and 3 as depicted in . Each cell line genotype influences a consensus PstI restriction site in this region. shows that a polymerase chain reaction PCR product made from human colon HT29 cells was partially sensitive to PstI cutting suggesting that these cells contained at least one ODC A allele. A PCR product made from human colon HCT116 cells using the same primers was insensitive to PstI action implying that these cells contained only ODC G alleles. This result was confirmed by direct DNA sequencing.

Expression of specific E box binding proteins including the transcriptional activator c MYC and several transcriptional repressors in HT29 and HCT116 cells e.g. MAD1 and MAD4 was established by Western blotting . Chromatin immunoprecipitation CHIP analysis of the region surrounding 316 of the ODC promoter was conducted using antibodies directed against these proteins. As shown in ODC promoter specific PCR products were synthesized from HT29 DNA obtained after immunoprecipitation of chromatin with antibodies directed against c MYC MAD1 or MAD4. PCR products synthesized from HCT116 DNA after similar chromatin immunoprecipitation were substantially reduced compared to those synthesized from HT29 DNA. Quantification of these results indicated that c MYC MAD1 and MAD4 binding to the ODC SNP region was 4 14 times greater in HT29 cells which contained one ODC A allele compared to HCT116 cells which contained only ODC G alleles.

ODC allele specific promoter activity was assessed. The hypothesis that 316 ODC SNP influenced ODC expression in a manner dependant on the expression of E box activators and repressors was tested as follows. Transient co transfection of colon cancer derived HT29 cells was accomplished with ODC allele specific promoter constructs in combination with vectors expressing either the transcriptional activator c MYC or the repressor MAD1 B . The standard error bars shown reflect the variability in triplicate measurements within a single representative experiment which has been replicated. The allele specific promoter reporters used in these experiments included all three E boxes shown in . As shown in c MYC expression had the greatest stimulatory effect on promoters containing three consensus E boxes and the ODC A allele wt E box1 316 A P 0.0014 . Deletion of the upstream E box reduced promoter activity but c MYC expression continued to stimulate this activity mut E box1 316 A P 0.0013 . Substitution of a G for the A at the 316 SNP position reduced the ability of c MYC to stimulate promoter activity even with an intact 5 flanking consensus E box. Mutation of the 5 flanking consensus E box in combination with the ODC G allele further reduced promoter activity.

When MAD1 rather than c MYC was co transfected with the ODC allele specific promoter reporters the repressor was only able to reduce the activity of the ODC promoter which contained all three E boxes and the wild type 316 A allele P 0.027 . Deletion of the upstream E box mut E box 1 316A significantly reduced the effect of MAD1 on ODC promoter activity. Substitution of G for A at the 316 position rendered promoters containing either two or three E boxes unresponsive to MAD1 suppression.

DFMO also know as eflornithine has the following chemical designation 2 difluoromethyl dl ornithine. It is an enzyme activated irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase ODC the rate limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthetic pathway. As a result of this inhibition of polyamine synthesis the compound is effective in preventing cancer formation in many organ systems inhibiting cancer growth and reducing tumor size. It also has synergistic action with other antineoplastic agents.

DFMO has been shown to decrease APC dependent intestinal tumorigenesis in mice Erdman et al. 1999 . Oral DFMO administered daily to humans inhibits ODC enzyme activity and polyamine contents in a number of epithelial tissues Love et al. 1993 Gerner et al. 1994 Meyskens et al. 1994 Meyskens et al. 1998 Simoneau et al. 2001 Simoneau et al. 2008 . Recently the inventors reported that DFMO in combination with the non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID sulindac has been reported to markedly lower the adenoma recurrence rate among individuals with colonic adenomas when compared to placebos in a randomized clinical trial Meyskens et al. 2008 .

DFMO was originally synthesized by Centre de Recherche Merrell Strasbourg Current FDA approvals include

DFMO and its use in the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy are described in two patents U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 413 141 and 4 330 559. U.S. Pat. No. 4 413 141 describes DFMO as being a powerful inhibitor of ODC both in vitro and in vivo. Administration of DFMO causes a decrease in putrescine and spermidine concentrations in cells in which these polyamines are normally actively produced. Additionally DFMO has been shown to be capable of slowing neoplastic cell proliferation when tested in standard tumor models. U.S. Pat. No. 4 330 559 describes the use of DFMO and DFMO derivatives for the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy. Benign prostatic hypertrophy like many disease states characterized by rapid cell proliferation is accompanied by abnormal elevation of polyamine concentrations. The treatment described within this reference can be administered to a patient either orally or parenterally.

DFMO can potentially be given continuously with significant anti tumor effects. This drug is relatively non toxic at low doses of 0.4 g m day to humans while producing inhibition of putrescine synthesis in tumors. Studies in a rat tumor model demonstrate that DFMO infusion can produce a 90 decrease in tumor putrescine levels without suppressing peripheral platelet counts.

Side effects observed with DFMO include effects on hearing at high doses of 4 g M day that resolve when it is discontinued. These effects on hearing are not observed at lower doses of 0.4 g M day when administered for up to one year Meyskens et al. 1994 . In addition a few cases of dizziness vertigo are seen that resolve when the drug is stopped. Thrombocytopenia has been reported predominantly in studies using high therapeutic doses of DFMO 1.0 g m day and primarily in cancer patients who had previously undergone chemotherapy or patients with compromised bone marrow. Although the toxicity associated with DFMO therapy are not in general as severe as other types of chemotherapy in limited clinical trials it has been found to promote a dose related thrombocytopenia. Moreover studies in rats have shown that continuous infusion of DFMO for 12 days significantly reduces platelet counts compared with controls. Other investigations have made similar observations in which thrombocytopenia is the major toxicity of continuous i.v. DFMO therapy. These findings suggest that DFMO may significantly inhibit ODC activity of the bone marrow precursors of megakaryocytes. DFMO may inhibit proliferative repair processes such as epithelial wound healing.

A phase III clinical trial assessed the recurrence of adenomatous polyps after treatment for 36 months with difluoromethylornithine DFMO plus sulindac or matched placebos. Temporary hearing loss is a known toxicity of treatment with DFMO thus a comprehensive approach was developed to analyze serial air conduction audiograms. The generalized estimating equation method estimated the mean difference between treatment arms with regard to change in air conduction pure tone thresholds while accounting for within subject correlation due to repeated measurements at frequencies. Based on 290 subjects there was an average difference of 0.50 dB between subjects treated with DFMO plus sulindac compared with those treated with placebo 95 confidence interval 0.64 to 1.63 dB P 0.39 adjusted for baseline values age and frequencies. In the normal speech range of 500 to 3 000 Hz an estimated difference of 0.99 dB 0.17 to 2.14 dB P 0.09 was detected. Dose intensity did not add information to models. There were 14 of 151 9.3 in the DFMO plus sulindac group and 4 of 139 2.9 in the placebo group who experienced at least 15 dB hearing reduction from baseline in 2 or more consecutive frequencies across the entire range tested P 0.02 . Follow up air conduction done at least 6 months after end of treatment showed an adjusted mean difference in hearing thresholds of 1.08 dB 0.81 to 2.96 dB P 0.26 between treatment arms. There was no significant difference in the proportion of subjects in the DFMO plus sulindac group who experienced clinically significant hearing loss compared with the placebo group. The estimated attributable risk of ototoxicity from exposure to the drug is 8.4 95 confidence interval 2.0 to 18.8 P 0.12 . There is a 

NSAIDs are anti inflammatory agents that are not steroids. In addition to anti inflammatory actions they have analgesic antipyretic and platelet inhibitory actions. They are used primarily in the treatment of chronic arthritic conditions and certain soft tissue disorders associated with pain and inflammation. They act by blocking the synthesis of prostaglandins by inhibiting cyclooxygenase which converts arachidonic acid to cyclic endoperoxides precursors of prostaglandins. Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis accounts for their analgesic antipyretic and platelet inhibitory actions other mechanisms may contribute to their anti inflammatory effects. Certain NSAIDs also may inhibit lipoxygenase enzymes or phospholipase C or may modulate T cell function. AMA Drug Evaluations Annual 1814 5 1994 .

The nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs including aspirin ibuprofen piroxicam Reddy et al. 1990 Singh et al. 1994 indomethacin Narisawa 1981 and sulindac Piazza et al. 1997 Rao et al. 1995 effectively inhibit colon carcinogenesis in the AOM treated rat model. NSAIDs also inhibit the development of tumors harboring an activated Ki ras Singh and Reddy 1995 . NSAIDs appear to inhibit carcinogenesis via the induction of apoptosis in tumor cells Bedi et al. 1995 Lupulescu 1996 Piazza et al. 1995 Piazza et al. 1997b . A number of studies suggest that the chemopreventive properties of the NSAIDs including the induction of apoptosis is a function of their ability to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis reviewed in DuBois et al. 1996 Lupulescu 1996 Vane and Botting 1997 . Studies however indicate that NSAIDs may act through both prostaglandin dependent and independent mechanisms Alberts et al. 1995 Piazza et al. 1997a Thompson et al. 1995 Hanif 1996 . Sulindac sulfone a metabolite of the NSAID sulindac lacks COX inhibitory activity yet induces apoptosis in tumor cells Piazza et al. 1995 Piazza et al. 1997b and inhibits tumor development in several rodent models of carcinogenesis Thompson et al. 1995 Piazza et al. 1995 1997a .

Several NSAIDs have been examined for their effects in human clinical trials. A phase IIa trial one month of ibuprofen was completed and even at the dose of 300 mg day a significant decrease in prostoglandin E PGE levels in flat mucosa was seen. A dose of 300 mg of ibuprofen is very low therapeutic doses range from 1200 3000 mg day or more and toxicity is unlikely to be seen even over the long term. However in animal chemoprevention models ibuprofen is less effective than other NSAIDs.

Sulindac is a non steroidal anti inflammatory indene derivative with the following chemical designation Z 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 4 methylsulfin yl phenyl methylene 1H indene 3 acetic acid Physician s Desk Reference 1999 . The sulfinyl moiety is converted in vivo by reversible reduction to a sulfide metabolite and by irreversible oxidation to a sulfone metabolite exisulind . See U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 845 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Sulindac which also inhibits Ki ras activation is metabolized to two different molecules which differ in their ability to inhibit COX yet both are able to exert chemopreventive effects via the induction of apoptosis. Sulindac sulfone lacks COX inhibitory activity and most likely facilitates the induction of apoptosis in a manner independent of prostaglandin synthesis. Available evidence indicates that the sulfide derivative is at least one of the biologically active compounds. Based on this sulindac may be considered a prodrug.

Sulindac Clinoril is available for example as 150 mg and 200 mg tablets. The most common dosage for adults is 150 to 200 mg twice a day with a maximal daily dose of 400 mg. After oral administration about 90 of the drug is absorbed. Peak plasma levels are achieved in about 2 hours in fasting patients and 3 to 4 hours when administered with food. The mean half life of sulindac is 7.8 hours the mean half life of the sulfide metabolite is 16.4 hours. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 647 858 and 3 654 349 cover preparations of sulindac both are incorporate by reference herein in their entireties.

Sulindac is indicated for the acute and long term relief of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis ankylosing spondylitis acute gout and acute painful shoulder. The analgesic and antiinflammatory effects exerted by sulindac 400 mg per day are comparable to those achieved by aspirin 4 g per day ibuprofen 1200 mg per day indometacin 125 mg per day and phenylbutazone 400 to 600 mg per day . Side effects of sulindac include mild gastrointestinal effects in nearly 20 of patients with abdominal pain and nausea being the most frequent complaints. CNS side effects are seen in up to 10 of patients with drowsiness headache and nervousness being those most frequently reported. Skin rash and pruritus occur in 5 of patients. Chronic treatment with sulindac can lead to serious gastrointestinal toxicity such as bleeding ulceration and perforation.

The potential use of sulindac for chemoprevention of cancers and in particular colorectal polyps has been well studied. Two recent U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 814 625 and 5 843 929 detail potential chemopreventive uses of sulindac in humans. Both patents are incorporated herein in their entireties. Doses of sulindac claimed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 814 625 range from 10 mg to 1500 mg per day with preferred doses of 50 mg to 500 mg per day. However at the higher doses the biggest problem with the use of sulindac as a single agent in chemoprevention is its well known toxicities and moderately high risk of intolerance. The elderly appear to be especially vulnerable as the incidence of side effects is higher in those over the age of 60. It is noted that this age group is most likely to develop colorectal cancer and therefore most likely to benefit from chemoprevention.

Sulindac and its sulfone metabolite exisulind have been tested and continue to be tested clinically for the prevention and treatment of several cancer types. Clinical Trials.gov a U.S. National Institutes of Health database provides the following overview of as of May 10 2010.

A non steroidal anti inflammatory agent that is well established in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis with the following chemical designation 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridyl 2H 1 2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1 1 dioxide. Its usefulness also has been demonstrated in the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders dysmenorrhea and postoperative pain. Its long half life enables it to be administered once daily. The drug has been shown to be effective if administered rectally. Gastrointestinal complaints are the most frequently reported side effects.

Piroxicam has been shown to be effective chemoprevention agent in animal models Pollard and Luckert 1989 Reddy et al. 1987 although it demonstrated side effects in a recent IIb trial. A large meta analysis of the side effects of the NSAIDs also indicates that piroxicam has more side effects than other NSAIDs Lanza et al. 1995 . Sulindac has been shown to produce regression of adenomas in Familial Adenomatous Polyposis FAP patients Muscat et al. 1994 although at least one study in sporadic adenomas has shown no such effect Ladenheim et al. 1995 .

The combination of DFMO and piroxicam has been shown to have a synergistic chemopreventive effect in the AOM treated rat model of colon carcinogenesis Reddy et al. 1990 although DFMO exerted a greater suppressive effect than piroxicam on Ki ras mutation and tumorigenesis when each agent was administered separately Reddy et al. 1990 . In one study administration of DFMO or piroxicam to AOM treated rats reduced the number of tumors harboring Ki ras mutations from 90 to 36 and 25 respectively Singh et al. 1994 . Both agents also reduced the amount of biochemically active p21 ras in existing tumors.

Combinations of various NSAIDs are also used for various purposes. By using lower doses of two or more NSAIDs it is possible to reduce the side effects or toxicities associated with higher doses of individual NSAIDs. For example in some embodiments sulindac may be used together with celecoxib. In some embodiments the one or both of the NSAIDS are selective COX 2 inhibitors. Examples of NSAIDS that back be used either alone or in combination include but are not limited to the following ibuprofen naproxen fenoprofen ketoprofen flurbiprofen oxaprozin indomethacin sulindac etodolac diclofenac piroxicam meloxicam tenoxicam droxicam lornoxicam isoxicam mefenamic acid meclofenamic acid flufenamic acid tolfenamic acid celecoxib rofecoxib valdecoxib parecoxib lumiracoxib or etoricoxib.

Preclinical studies of chemoprevention drugs given in combination at low doses show remarkable efficacy in preventing adenomas with little additional toxicities suggesting a strategy to improve risk to benefit ratios for preventing recurrent adenomas.

As noted above the Min multiple intestinal neoplasia mouse which shares a mutated APC apc genotype with FAP serves as a useful experimental animal model for human FAP patients Lipkin 1997 . The Min mouse can develop greater than 100 gastrointestinal adenomas adenocarcinomas throughout the gastrointestinal tract by 120 days of life leading to GI bleeding obstruction and death. A combination therapy of DFMO and sulindac was shown to be effective in reducing adenomas in these mice U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 845 Gerner and Meyskens 2004 . The results of treating Min mice with either DFMO alone sulindac alone or a combination of DFMO and sulindac on tumor formation in either the colon or small intestine are shown in . shows the average number of tumors by size in the colon of the three treatment groups compared to untreated controls. shows the average number of tumors by size in the small intestine of the three treatment groups compared to untreated controls. shows how the number of high grade adenomas various depending on therapy single or combination.

The efficacy of a polyamine inhibitory combination of long term daily oral D L difluoromethylornithine DFMO eflornithine and sulindac among CRA patients was demonstrated Meyskens et al. 2008 however treatment was associated with modest subclinical ototoxicity McLaren et al. 2008 and a greater number of cardiovascular events among patients with high baseline cardiovascular risk Zell et al. 2009 . The inventors have now investigated determined that the ODC1 genotype differentially affects adenoma recurrence tissue polyamine responses or toxicity profiles after eflornithine and sulindac treatment compared to placebo.

Three hundred seventy five patients with history of resected or 3 mm adenomas were randomly assigned to receive oral difluoromethylornithine DFMO 500 mg and sulindac 150 mg once daily or matched placebos for 36 months stratified by use of low dose aspirin 81 mg at baseline and clinical site. Follow up colonoscopy was done 3 years after randomization or off study. Colorectal adenoma recurrence was compared among the groups with log binomial regression. Comparing the outcome in patients receiving placebos to those receiving active intervention a the recurrence of one or more adenomas was 41.1 and 12.3 risk ratio 0.30 95 confidence interval 0.18 0.49 P

The study was halted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board DSMB after 267 patients completed end of study colonoscopies due to the study meeting its efficacy endpoints . The DSMB monitored all safety and efficacy endpoints. As discussed in greater detail in the Examples section this study involves analysis of patient data from the multicenter phase III colon adenoma prevention trial. See also Meyskens et al. 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A total of 440 colorectal cancer CRC cases identified from the UC Irvine CRC gene environment study were used in the case only analysis. Median follow up duration was 11 years. There were 270 61 colon cancer cases 162 37 rectal cancer cases and 8 2 CRC cases of unspecified location. Clinicopathologic data for colon and rectal cancer cases are shown in Table 1. ODC 316 genotype distribution among all CRC cases was 53 GG 41 GA and 7 AA. ODC 316 genotype distribution was similar among CRC cases with and without a family history. There were no significant differences in ODC genotype distribution by age P 0.38 gender P 0.56 family history P 0.94 site within the colorectum P 0.55 histology P 0.46 or tumor grade P 0.73 . ODC genotype distribution did not significantly differ by stage at diagnosis stage I 49 GG 42 GA 8 AA stage 11 56 GG 38 GA 6 AA stage III 51 GG 43 GA 6 AA stage 1V 59 GG 37 GA 4 AA P 0.87 . ODC genotype distribution by ethnicity revealed significant differences Caucasian 382 cases 53 GG 41 GA 6 AA minor A allele frequency 26 African American 7 cases 71 GG 29 GA 0 AA minor A allele frequency 15 Hispanics 21 cases 57 GG 43 GA 0 AA minor A allele frequency 21 and Asians 27 cases 33 GG 41 GA 26 AA minor A allele frequency 46 P 0.009 . However within each race ODC genotype distribution was in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium Caucasians P 0.36 African Americans P 0.66 Hispanics P 0.21 Asians P 0.35 .

ODC1 genotype distribution was 126 GG 55 87 GA 38 and 15 AA 7 . Baseline clinical characteristics revealed differences as shown in Table 1. In regression models with predictors age gender race aspirin use treatment ODC1 genotype and treatment treatment was the only factor associated with differences in adenoma recurrence tissue polyamine response and ototoxicity. A statistically significant interaction was detected for ODC1 genotype and treatment in the full model for adenoma recurrence P 0.021 such that the pattern of adenoma recurrence among placebo patients was GG 50 GA 35 AA 29 versus eflornithine sulindac patients GG 11 GA 14 AA 57 .

A statistically significant interaction was detected between ODC1 genotype and treatment in this model P 0.038 . ODC1 genotype was not significantly associated with a tissue putrescine response or spermidine spermine ratio response in the full regression models data not shown . The relative risk RR for adenoma recurrence related to treatment after adjustment in the full regression model was 0.39 95 CI 0.24 0.66 . There were no significant associations between treatment and ODC1 genotype group with regard to cardiovascular or gastrointestinal adverse events Tables 3 4 .

Here it was observed that the adenoma inhibitory effect of eflornithine and sulindac was greater among those with the major G homozygous ODC1 genotype in contrast to prior reports showing decreased risk of recurrent adenoma among CRA patients receiving aspirin carrying at least one A allele Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 ODC1 genotype distribution was similar to that reported in prior aspirin based trials Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 and the A allele was associated with a non significant lower recurrent adenoma risk in the placebo group consistent with previous reports Martinez et al. 2003 Hubner et al. 2008 . These results demonstrate that ODC1 A allele carriers differ in response to prolonged exposure with eflornithine and sulindac compared to GG genotype patients with A allele carriers experiencing less benefit in terms of adenoma recurrence and potential for elevated risk of developing ototoxicity especially among the AA homozygotes.

Of the 440 CRC cases 138 31 were deceased at the time of analysis. Sixty four 46 deaths occurred in cases carrying the GG genotype compared to 74 54 deaths in cases with the AA AG genotypes. Cause of death was available for 102 of the 138 deceased CRC cases. Eighty five 83 CRC cases died as a result of CRC. A statistically significant improvement in CRC specific survival was observed among all CRC cases homozygous for the ODC G allele 10 year survival 84 compared to cases with at least one A allele ODC GA AA 10 year survival 76 P 0.031 . CRC specific survival analysis by stage revealed that significantly different survival differences were not observed for AJCC stage I P 0.055 II P 0.61 or IV P 0.65 CRC. However among cases with stage III CRC the ODC GG genotype was associated with improved 10 year CRC specific survival 75 compared to 60 for ODC GA AA genotype cases P 0.024 . Among colon cancer cases a statistically significant CRC specific survival benefit was observed for those with ODC GG genotype compared to ODC GA AA cases 10 year survival rate 87 vs. 79 P 0.029 this was not observed for rectal cancer cases 10 year survival 78 for ODC GG cases vs. 72 for ODC GA AA cases P 0.42 .

Among all CRC cases the CRC specific survival estimates based on ODC genotype after adjustment for age years gender ethnicity family history of CRC TNM stage at diagnosis tumor site within the colon histologic subtype treatment with surgery radiation therapy and chemotherapy were a follows ODC GG hazards ratio HR 1.00 referent ODC GA HR 1.73 and ODC AA genotype HR 1.73 P trend 0.0283 . Among colon cases only CRC specific survival analysis revealed that the ODC 316 SNP was an independent predictor of CRC specific survival after adjustment for the above clinical variables. Compared to ODC GG colon cancer cases the CRC specific risk of death HR was 2.31 1.15 4.64 for ODC GA genotype and 3.73 0.93 14.99 for ODC AA genotype P trend 0.006 Table 2 . Overall survival analysis of these colon cancer cases was consistent with the CRC specific survival analysis Table 2 . Among rectal cancer cases CRC specific survival analysis revealed that the ODC 316 SNP was not an independent predictor of CRC specific survival after adjustment for the aforementioned clinical variables. Compared to ODC GG rectal cancer cases HR 1.00 reference the CRC specific risk of death HR was 1.72 0.83 3.57 for ODC GA heterozygotes and 1.93 0.56 6.67 for ODC AA homozygotes P trend 0.12 .

As noted above the ODC 316 genotype distribution differed across ethnicity. The observed mortality risk other than by chance likely reflects differences based on ODC genotype however the risk may be restricted to a particular ethnic group. Thus multivariate analyses were conducted among Caucasian colon cancer cases to assess genotype specific mortality risk within this single ethnic group. Among the 234 Caucasian colon cancer cases there were 37 CRC related deaths. Multivariate CRC specific survival analysis revealed that the ODC 316 SNP was an independent predictor of CRC specific survival among Caucasian colon cancer cases after adjustment for the aforementioned relevant clinical variables. Compared to cases with ODC GG genotype HR 1.00 reference the CRC specific risk of death HR was 2.67 1.22 5.82 for ODC GA genotype and 6.28 1.46 26.95 for ODC AA genotype P trend 0.0018 .

Genotype specific survival differences among CRC cases were limited to colon cancer cases compared to ODC GG genotype cases HR 1.00 reference the adjusted CRC SS hazards ratio HR was 2.31 1.15 4.64 for ODC GA cases and 3.73 0.93 14.99 for ODC AA cases P trend 0.006 . In colon cancer cells the ODC 316 SNP flanked by two E boxes predicts ODC promoter activity. The E box activator c MYC and repressors MAD1 and MAD4 preferentially bind to minor A compared to major G alleles in cultured cells.

Based on this population based analysis of colorectal cancer cases with eleven years follow up duration it was observed that the 316 ODC SNP was associated with colorectal cancer specific survival among colon cancer cases. A statistically significant increased risk of CRC specific mortality was observed with each additional ODC A allele among colon cancer cases i.e. from ODC GG to GA to AA P trend 0.006 after adjustment for age gender ethnicity tumor stage family history of CRC tumor site histology treatment with surgery radiation therapy and chemotherapy.

The experimental data presented here provide insights into potential biologic mechanisms underlying our clinical observations. In colon cancer epithelial cells we have shown that the ODC 316 SNP is functionally significant as evidenced by increased binding of E box transcription factors to promoter elements containing A compared to G alleles. Both the activator c MYC and the repressor MAD1 show greater effects on promoter activity in reporter elements containing A versus G alleles. These results suggest allele specific regulation of ODC by E box transcription factors. ODC protein enzyme activity is not apparently affected by the ODC 316 SNP genotype which we believe influences ODC transcription.

In colon cells it has been shown that conditional expression of wild type APC a gene expressed in normal colonic mucosa suppresses c MYC and increases MAD1 expression Fultz and Gerner 2002 . Further it has have reported that wild type APC can regulate ODC promoter activity in a manner dependent on the 316 SNP Martinez et al. 2003 . Wild type APC is expressed in the apparently normal colonic mucosa of individuals not afflicted with FAP while the majority of sporadic colon adenomas show evidence of mutated or deleted APC Iwamoto et al. 2000 . MYC is expressed at low levels in normal intestinal mucosa but is increased in intestinal adenomas of APC mice. Conditional knockout of intestinal epithelial MYC expression suppresses intestinal tumorigenesis in APC mice Ignatenko et al. 2006 . As described above previous work by our group Martinez et al. 2003 and others Hubner et al. 2008 demonstrated a protective role for the ODC A allele especially in aspirin users against recurrence of colon polyps in clinical prevention trials. However in the population based study presented here the ODC A allele was associated with poor survival. This apparent contradiction may be explained by the results shown here which indicate that both E box activators and repressors bind the ODC A allele selectively. The inventors speculate that the transition from normal epithelium expressing E box repressors to neoplastic epithelium may be retarded in individuals with ODC A alleles. This effect may result from suppression of polyamine synthesis. However if the transformed epithelium begins to express E box activators such as c MYC then cancer progression may be more likely to occur in individuals with the ODC A genotype. Our results for risk of colon cancer specific mortality are consistent with those of others showing that risk of prostate cancer may be associated with the ODC A allele among specific individuals as the result of gene environment interactions O Brien et al. 2004 Visvanathan et al. 2004 . Such colon cancer progression could be due to enhanced polyamine synthesis as has been demonstrated already for prostate cancer Simoneau et al. 2008 .

This finding that a factor such as the ODC SNP may have both promoting and inhibiting effects on carcinogenesis is not unique. For example transforming growth factor beta TGF has diverse roles in carcinogenesis and cancer progression Derynck et al. 2001 Pardali and Moustakas 2007 Roberts and Wakefield 2003 . TGF in untransformed cells inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis. Yet it is overexpressed in all human tumors and is associated with late cancer progression specifically tumor invasion and metastasis. A single study reporting ODC activity in human colorectal tumors demonstrated that high levels of ODC expression was significantly associated with improved survival Matsubara et al. 1995 . This suggests that although ODC overexpression promotes the formation of human colorectal adenomas it is possible that in established lesions ODC overexpression causes enhanced proliferation and is associated with improved response to anti proliferative treatments. However that study did not include stratification by ODC genotype so it is not known if these effects are independent of ODC genotype.

The observed associations of the ODC 316 SNP with CRC specific mortality were limited to colon cancer cases. Among colon cancer cases particularly strong effects were observed for Caucasians. Similar to other reports the ODC 316 SNP allele frequency differs considerably by ethnicity O Brien et al. 2004 . When the inventors limited the survival analysis to Caucasians only i.e. the only ethnic group with adequate power for such analyses the associations of the ODC 316 SNP were significant and of greater magnitude than the estimates observed for the entire cohort.

The epidemiologic study shares limitations of other population based analyses including lack of data on comorbid conditions performance status and particular chemotherapeutic regimens utilized. Additionally the tissue biopsy samples obtained from participants of the UC Irvine Gene Environment Study of Familial Colorectal Cancer are paraffin embedded specimens and therefore cannot be used for accurate assessment of tissue polyamine quantification by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC . There is also the potential for selection bias favoring a relatively healthy group of CRC survivors since there was a median 16 month delay from the time of CRC diagnosis until study enrollment. Other factors affecting polyamine metabolism that were not accounted for in the present study may explain our observations. For example aspirin activates polyamine acetylation and export and works with the ODC A allele to reduce cell and tissue polyamine contents Gerner et al. 2004 Martinez et al. 2003 Babbar et al. 2006 .

In summary the inventors have observed clinical consequences of the ODC 316 SNP on CRC specific mortality among colon cancer cases. Additionally the inventors have further established the functional significance of the ODC 316 SNP in the c MYC and MAD1 dependent transcription of this gene in human colon cancer cells. Together these experimental and epidemiologic findings suggest roles for the ODC 316 SNP in progression of colon cancer that are distinct from its previously reported role in progression to colon adenomas. These findings may be used to assess risk of colon cancer progression and may be used to direct patient specific pharmacogenetic management surveillance monitoring and inform novel targeted approaches to secondary and tertiary colon cancer prevention.

A statistically significant interaction was detected for ODC1 genotype and treatment in the full model for adenoma recurrence P 0.021 such that the pattern of adenoma recurrence among placebo patients was GG 50 GA 35 AA 29 versus eflornithine sulindac patients GG 11 GA 14 AA 57 . Here it was observed that the adenoma inhibitory effect of eflornithine and sulindac was greater among those with the major G homozygous ODC1 genotype in contrast to prior reports showing decreased risk of recurrent adenoma among CRA patients receiving aspirin carrying at least one A allele Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 These results demonstrate that ODC1 A allele carriers differ in response to prolonged exposure with eflornithine and sulindac compared to GG genotype patients with A allele carriers experiencing less benefit in terms of adenoma recurrence and potential for elevated risk of developing ototoxicity especially among the AA homozygotes.

The genotype at the 316 position of the ODC1 promoter gene of patient can determined using the methods provided below including the specific methods described in the Examples section. These methods can be further modified and optimized using the principles and techniques of molecular biology as applied by a person skilled in the art. Such principles and techniques are taught for example in Small et al. 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference. General methods employed for the identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs are provided below. The reference of Kwok and Chen 2003 and Kwok 2001 provide overviews of some of these methods both of these references are specifically incorporated by reference.

SNPs relating to ODC1 can be characterized by the use of any of these methods or suitable modification thereof. Such methods include the direct or indirect sequencing of the site the use of restriction enzymes where the respective alleles of the site create or destroy a restriction site the use of allele specific hybridization probes the use of antibodies that are specific for the proteins encoded by the different alleles of the polymorphism or any other biochemical interpretation.

A commonly used method of characterizing a polymorphism is direct DNA sequencing of the genetic locus that flanks and includes the polymorphism. Such analysis can be accomplished using either the dideoxy mediated chain termination method also known as the Sanger Method Sanger et al. 1975 or the chemical degradation method also known as the Maxam Gilbert method Maxam et al. 1977 . Sequencing in combination with genomic sequence specific amplification technologies such as the polymerase chain reaction may be utilized to facilitate the recovery of the desired genes Mullis et al. 1986 European Patent Application 50 424 European Patent Application. 84 796 European Patent Application 258 017 European Patent Application. 237 362 European Patent Application. 201 184 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 202 4 582 788 and 4 683 194 all of the above incorporated herein by reference.

Other methods that can be employed to determine the identity of a nucleotide present at a polymorphic site utilize a specialized exonuclease resistant nucleotide derivative U.S. Pat. No. 4 656 127 . A primer complementary to an allelic sequence immediately 3 to the polymorphic site is hybridized to the DNA under investigation. If the polymorphic site on the DNA contains a nucleotide that is complementary to the particular exonucleotide resistant nucleotide derivative present then that derivative will be incorporated by a polymerase onto the end of the hybridized primer. Such incorporation makes the primer resistant to exonuclease cleavage and thereby permits its detection. As the identity of the exonucleotide resistant derivative is known one can determine the specific nucleotide present in the polymorphic site of the DNA.

Several other primer guided nucleotide incorporation procedures for assaying polymorphic sites in DNA have been described Komher et al. 1989 Sokolov 1990 Syvanen 1990 Kuppuswamy et al. 1991 Prezant et al. 1992 Ugozzoll et al. 1992 Nyren et al. 1993 . These methods rely on the incorporation of labeled deoxynucleotides to discriminate between bases at a polymorphic site. As the signal is proportional to the number of deoxynucleotides incorporated polymorphisms that occur in runs of the same nucleotide result in a signal that is proportional to the length of the run Syvanen et al. 1990 .

French Patent 2 650 840 and PCT Application WO91 02087 discuss a solution based method for determining the identity of the nucleotide of a polymorphic site. According to these methods a primer complementary to allelic sequences immediately 3 to a polymorphic site is used. The identity of the nucleotide of that site is determined using labeled dideoxynucleotide derivatives which are incorporated at the end of the primer if complementary to the nucleotide of the polymorphic site.

PCT Application WO92 15712 describes a method that uses mixtures of labeled terminators and a primer that is complementary to the sequence 3 to a polymorphic site. The labeled terminator that is incorporated is complementary to the nucleotide present in the polymorphic site of the target molecule being evaluated and is thus identified. Here the primer or the target molecule is immobilized to a solid phase.

This is another solid phase method that uses different methodology Landegren et al. 1988 . Two oligonucleotides capable of hybridizing to abutting sequences of a single strand of a target DNA are used. One of these oligonucleotides is biotinylated while the other is detectably labeled. If the precise complementary sequence is found in a target molecule the oligonucleotides will hybridize such that their termini abut and create a ligation substrate. Ligation permits the recovery of the labeled oligonucleotide by using avidin. Other nucleic acid detection assays based on this method combined with PCR have also been described Nickerson et al. 1990 . Here PCR is used to achieve the exponential amplification of target DNA which is then detected using the OLA.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 952 174 describes a method that also involves two primers capable of hybridizing to abutting sequences of a target molecule. The hybridized product is formed on a solid support to which the target is immobilized. Here the hybridization occurs such that the primers are separated from one another by a space of a single nucleotide. Incubating this hybridized product in the presence of a polymerase a ligase and a nucleoside triphosphate mixture containing at least one deoxynucleoside triphosphate allows the ligation of any pair of abutting hybridized oligonucleotides. Addition of a ligase results in two events required to generate a signal extension and ligation. This provides a higher specificity and lower noise than methods using either extension or ligation alone and unlike the polymerase based assays this method enhances the specificity of the polymerase step by combining it with a second hybridization and a ligation step for a signal to be attached to the solid phase.

Invasive cleavage reactions can be used to evaluate cellular DNA for a particular polymorphism. A technology called INVADER employs such reactions e.g. de Arruda et al. 2002 Stevens et al. 2003 which are incorporated by reference . Generally there are three nucleic acid molecules 1 an oligonucleotide upstream of the target site upstream oligo 2 a probe oligonucleotide covering the target site probe and 3 a single stranded DNA with the target site target . The upstream oligo and probe do not overlap but they contain contiguous sequences. The probe contains a donor fluorophore such as fluoroscein and an acceptor dye such as Dabcyl. The nucleotide at the 3 terminal end of the upstream oligo overlaps invades the first base pair of a probe target duplex. Then the probe is cleaved by a structure specific 5 nuclease causing separation of the fluorophore quencher pair which increases the amount of fluorescence that can be detected. See Lu et al. 2004.

Several other specific methods for polymorphism detection and identification are presented below and may be used as such or with suitable modifications in conjunction with identifying polymorphisms of the ODC1 gene in the present invention. Several other methods are also described on the SNP web site of the NCBI on the World Wide Web at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov SNP incorporated herein by reference.

In a particular embodiment extended haplotypes may be determined at any given locus in a population which allows one to identify exactly which SNPs will be redundant and which will be essential in association studies. The latter is referred to as haplotype tag SNPs htSNPs markers that capture the haplotypes of a gene or a region of linkage disequilibrium. See Johnson et al. 2001 and Ke and Cardon 2003 each of which is incorporated herein by reference for exemplary methods.

The VDA assay utilizes PCR amplification of genomic segments by long PCR methods using TaKaRa LA Taq reagents and other standard reaction conditions. The long amplification can amplify DNA sizes of about 2 000 12 000 bp. Hybridization of products to variant detector array VDA can be performed by a Affymetrix High Throughput Screening Center and analyzed with computerized software.

A method called Chip Assay uses PCR amplification of genomic segments by standard or long PCR protocols. Hybridization products are analyzed by VDA Halushka et al. 1999 incorporated herein by reference. SNPs are generally classified as Certain or Likely based on computer analysis of hybridization patterns. By comparison to alternative detection methods such as nucleotide sequencing Certain SNPs have been confirmed 100 of the time and Likely SNPs have been confirmed 73 of the time by this method.

Other methods simply involve PCR amplification following digestion with the relevant restriction enzyme. Yet others involve sequencing of purified PCR products from known genomic regions.

In yet another method individual exons or overlapping fragments of large exons are PCR amplified. Primers are designed from published or database sequences and PCR amplification of genomic DNA is performed using the following conditions 200 ng DNA template 0.5 M each primer 80 M each of dCTP dATP dTTP and dGTP 5 formamide 1.5 mM MgCl 0.5 U of Taq polymerase and 0.1 volume of the Taq buffer. Thermal cycling is performed and resulting PCR products are analyzed by PCR single strand conformation polymorphism PCR SSCP analysis under a variety of conditions e.g 5 or 10 polyacrylamide gel with 15 urea with or without 5 glycerol. Electrophoresis is performed overnight. PCR products that show mobility shifts are reamplified and sequenced to identify nucleotide variation.

In a method called CGAP GAI DEMIGLACE sequence and alignment data from a PHRAP.ace file quality scores for the sequence base calls from PHRED quality files distance information from PHYLIP dnadist and neighbour programs and base calling data from PHRED d switch are loaded into memory. Sequences are aligned and examined for each vertical chunk slice of the resulting assembly for disagreement. Any such slice is considered a candidate SNP DEMIGLACE . A number of filters are used by DEMIGLACE to eliminate slices that are not likely to represent true polymorphisms. These include filters that i exclude sequences in any given slice from SNP consideration where neighboring sequence quality scores drop 40 or more ii exclude calls in which peak amplitude is below the fifteenth percentile of all base calls for that nucleotide type iii disqualify regions of a sequence having a high number of disagreements with the consensus from participating in SNP calculations iv removed from consideration any base call with an alternative call in which the peak takes up 25 or more of the area of the called peak v exclude variations that occur in only one read direction. PHRED quality scores were converted into probability of error values for each nucleotide in the slice. Standard Baysian methods are used to calculate the posterior probability that there is evidence of nucleotide heterogeneity at a given location.

In a method called CU RDF RESEQ PCR amplification is performed from DNA isolated from blood using specific primers for each SNP and after typical cleanup protocols to remove unused primers and free nucleotides direct sequencing using the same or nested primers.

In a method called DEBNICK METHOD B a comparative analysis of clustered EST sequences is performed and confirmed by fluorescent based DNA sequencing. In a related method called DEBNICK METHOD C comparative analysis of clustered EST sequences with phred quality 20 at the site of the mismatch average phred quality 20 over 5 bases 5 FLANK and 3 to the SNP no mismatches in 5 bases 5 and 3 to the SNP at least two occurrences of each allele is performed and confirmed by examining traces.

In a method identified by ERO RESEQ new primers sets are designed for electronically published STSs and used to amplify DNA from 10 different mouse strains. The amplification product from each strain is then gel purified and sequenced using a standard dideoxy cycle sequencing technique with P labeled terminators. All the ddATP terminated reactions are then loaded in adjacent lanes of a sequencing gel followed by all of the ddGTP reactions and so on. SNPs are identified by visually scanning the radiographs.

In another method identified as ERO RESEQ HT new primers sets are designed for electronically published murine DNA sequences and used to amplify DNA from 10 different mouse strains. The amplification product from each strain is prepared for sequencing by treating with Exonuclease I and Shrimp Alkaline Phosphatase. Sequencing is performed using ABI Prism Big Dye Terminator Ready Reaction Kit Perkin Elmer and sequence samples are run on the 3700 DNA Analyzer 96 Capillary Sequencer .

FGU CBT SCA2 SNP identifies a method where the region containing the SNP were PCR amplified using the primers SCA2 FP3 and SCA2 RP3. Approximately 100 ng of genomic DNA is amplified in a 50 ml reaction volume containing a final concentration of 5 mM Tris 25 mM KCl 0.75 mM MgCl 0.05 gelatin 20 pmol of each primer and 0.5 U of Taq DNA polymerase. Samples are denatured annealed and extended and the PCR product is purified from a band cut out of the agarose gel using for example the QIAquick gel extraction kit Qiagen and is sequenced using dye terminator chemistry on an ABI Prism 377 automated DNA sequencer with the PCR primers.

In a method identified as JBLACK SEQ RESTRICT two independent PCR reactions are performed with genomic DNA. Products from the first reaction are analyzed by sequencing indicating a unique FspI restriction site. The mutation is confirmed in the product of the second PCR reaction by digesting with Fsp I.

In a method described as KWOK 1 SNPs are identified by comparing high quality genomic sequence data from four randomly chosen individuals by direct DNA sequencing of PCR products with dye terminator chemistry see Kwok et al. 1996 . In a related method identified as KWOK 2 SNPs are identified by comparing high quality genomic sequence data from overlapping large insert clones such as bacterial artificial chromosomes BACs or P1 based artificial chromosomes PACs . An STS containing this SNP is then developed and the existence of the SNP in various populations is confirmed by pooled DNA sequencing see Taillon Miller et al. 1998 . In another similar method called KWOK 3 SNPs are identified by comparing high quality genomic sequence data from overlapping large insert clones BACs or PACs. The SNPs found by this approach represent DNA sequence variations between the two donor chromosomes but the allele frequencies in the general population have not yet been determined. In method KWOK 5 SNPs are identified by comparing high quality genomic sequence data from a homozygous DNA sample and one or more pooled DNA samples by direct DNA sequencing of PCR products with dye terminator chemistry. The STSs used are developed from sequence data found in publicly available databases. Specifically these STSs are amplified by PCR against a complete hydatidiform mole CHM that has been shown to be homozygous at all loci and a pool of DNA samples from 80 CEPH parents see Kwok et al. 1994 .

In another such method KWOK OverlapSnpDetectionWithPolyBayes SNPs are discovered by automated computer analysis of overlapping regions of large insert human genomic clone sequences. For data acquisition clone sequences are obtained directly from large scale sequencing centers. This is necessary because base quality sequences are not present available through GenBank. Raw data processing involves analyzed of clone sequences and accompanying base quality information for consistency. Finished base perfect error rate lower than 1 in 10 000 bp sequences with no associated base quality sequences are assigned a uniform base quality value of 40 1 in 10 000 bp error rate . Draft sequences without base quality values are rejected. Processed sequences are entered into a local database. A version of each sequence with known human repeats masked is also stored. Repeat masking is performed with the program MASKERAID. Overlap detection Putative overlaps are detected with the program WUBLAST. Several filtering steps followed in order to eliminate false overlap detection results i.e. similarities between a pair of clone sequences that arise due to sequence duplication as opposed to true overlap. Total length of overlap overall percent similarity number of sequence differences between nucleotides with high base quality value high quality mismatches. Results are also compared to results of restriction fragment mapping of genomic clones at Washington University Genome Sequencing Center finisher s reports on overlaps and results of the sequence contig building effort at the NCBI. SNP detection Overlapping pairs of clone sequence are analyzed for candidate SNP sites with the POLYBAYES SNP detection software. Sequence differences between the pair of sequences are scored for the probability of representing true sequence variation as opposed to sequencing error. This process requires the presence of base quality values for both sequences. High scoring candidates are extracted. The search is restricted to substitution type single base pair variations. Confidence score of candidate SNP is computed by the POLYBAYES software.

In method identified by KWOK TaqMan assay the TaqMan assay is used to determine genotypes for 90 random individuals. In method identified by KYUGEN Q1 DNA samples of indicated populations are pooled and analyzed by PLACE SSCP. Peak heights of each allele in the pooled analysis are corrected by those in a heterozygote and are subsequently used for calculation of allele frequencies. Allele frequencies higher than 10 are reliably quantified by this method. Allele frequency 0 zero means that the allele was found among individuals but the corresponding peak is not seen in the examination of pool. Allele frequency 0 0.1 indicates that minor alleles are detected in the pool but the peaks are too low to reliably quantify.

In yet another method identified as KYUGEN Method1 PCR products are post labeled with fluorescent dyes and analyzed by an automated capillary electrophoresis system under SSCP conditions PLACE SSCP . Four or more individual DNAs are analyzed with or without two pooled DNA Japanese pool and CEPH parents pool in a series of experiments. Alleles are identified by visual inspection. Individual DNAs with different genotypes are sequenced and SNPs identified. Allele frequencies are estimated from peak heights in the pooled samples after correction of signal bias using peak heights in heterozygotes. For the PCR primers are tagged to have 5 ATT or 5 GTT at their ends for post labeling of both strands. Samples of DNA 10 ng ul are amplified in reaction mixtures containing the buffer 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8.3 or 9.3 50 mM KCl 2.0 mM MgCl 0.25 M of each primer 200 M of each dNTP and 0.025 units l of Taq DNA polymerase premixed with anti Taq antibody. The two strands of PCR products are differentially labeled with nucleotides modified with R110 and R6G by an exchange reaction of Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I. The reaction is stopped by adding EDTA and unincorporated nucleotides are dephosphorylated by adding calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase. For the SSCP an aliquot of fluorescently labeled PCR products and TAMRA labeled internal markers are added to deionized formamide and denatured. Electrophoresis is performed in a capillary using an ABI Prism 310 Genetic Analyzer. Genescan softwares P E Biosystems are used for data collection and data processing. DNA of individuals two to eleven including those who showed different genotypes on SSCP are subjected for direct sequencing using big dye terminator chemistry on ABI Prism 310 sequencers. Multiple sequence trace files obtained from ABI Prism 310 are processed and aligned by Phred Phrap and viewed using Consed viewer. SNPs are identified by PolyPhred software and visual inspection.

In yet another method identified as KYUGEN Method2 individuals with different genotypes are searched by denaturing HPLC DHPLC or PLACE SSCP Inazuka et al. 1997 and their sequences are determined to identify SNPs. PCR is performed with primers tagged with 5 ATT or 5 GTT at their ends for post labeling of both strands. DHPLC analysis is carried out using the WAVE DNA fragment analysis system Transgenomic . PCR products are injected into DNASep column and separated under the conditions determined using WAVEMaker program Transgenomic . The two strands of PCR products that are differentially labeled with nucleotides modified with R110 and R6G by an exchange reaction of Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I. The reaction is stopped by adding EDTA and unincorporated nucleotides are dephosphorylated by adding calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase. SSCP followed by electrophoresis is performed in a capillary using an ABI Prism 310 Genetic Analyzer. Genescan softwares P E Biosystems . DNA of individuals including those who showed different genotypes on DHPLC or SSCP are subjected for direct sequencing using big dye terminator chemistry on ABI Prism 310 sequencer. Multiple sequence trace files obtained from ABI Prism 310 are processed and aligned by Phred Phrap and viewed using Consed viewer. SNPs are identified by PolyPhred software and visual inspection. Trace chromatogram data of EST sequences in Unigene are processed with PHRED. To identify likely SNPs single base mismatches are reported from multiple sequence alignments produced by the programs PHRAP BRO and POA for each Unigene cluster. BRO corrected possible misreported EST orientations while POA identified and analyzed non linear alignment structures indicative of gene mixing chimeras that might produce spurious SNPs. Bayesian inference is used to weigh evidence for true polymorphism versus sequencing error misalignment or ambiguity misclustering or chimeric EST sequences assessing data such as raw chromatogram height sharpness overlap and spacing sequencing error rates context sensitivity cDNA library origin etc.

The therapeutic compounds of the present disclosure may be administered by a variety of methods e.g. orally or by injection e.g. subcutaneous intravenous intraperitoneal etc. . Depending on the route of administration the active compounds may be coated in a material to protect the compound from the action of acids and other natural conditions which may inactivate the compound. They may also be administered by continuous perfusion infusion of a disease or wound site.

To administer the therapeutic compound by other than parenteral administration it may be necessary to coat the compound with or co administer the compound with a material to prevent its inactivation. For example the therapeutic compound may be administered to a patient in an appropriate carrier for example liposomes or a diluent. Pharmaceutically acceptable diluents include saline and aqueous buffer solutions. Liposomes include water in oil in water CGF emulsions as well as conventional liposomes Strejan et al. 1984 .

The therapeutic compound may also be administered parenterally intraperitoneally intraspinally or intracerebrally. Dispersions can be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations may contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. In all cases the composition must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol such as glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars sodium chloride or polyalcohols such as mannitol and sorbitol in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate or gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the therapeutic compound in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the therapeutic compound into a sterile carrier which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient i.e. the therapeutic compound plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

The therapeutic compound can be orally administered for example with an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier. The therapeutic compound and other ingredients may also be enclosed in a hard or soft shell gelatin capsule compressed into tablets or incorporated directly into the subject s diet. For oral therapeutic administration the therapeutic compound may be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. The percentage of the therapeutic compound in the compositions and preparations may of course be varied. The amount of the therapeutic compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.

It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subjects to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of therapeutic compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the therapeutic compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such a therapeutic compound for the treatment of a selected condition in a patient.

The therapeutic compound may also be administered topically to the skin eye or mucosa. Alternatively if local delivery to the lungs is desired the therapeutic compound may be administered by inhalation in a dry powder or aerosol formulation.

Active compounds are administered at a therapeutically effective dosage sufficient to treat a condition associated with a condition in a patient. For example the efficacy of a compound can be evaluated in an animal model system that may be predictive of efficacy in treating the disease in humans such as the model systems shown in the examples and drawings.

The actual dosage amount of a compound of the present disclosure or composition comprising a compound of the present disclosure administered to a subject may be determined by physical and physiological factors such as age sex body weight severity of condition the type of disease being treated previous or concurrent therapeutic interventions idiopathy of the subject and on the route of administration. These factors may be determined by a skilled artisan. The practitioner responsible for administration will typically determine the concentration of active ingredient s in a composition and appropriate dose s for the individual subject. The dosage may be adjusted by the individual physician in the event of any complication.

An effective amount typically will vary from about 0.001 mg kg to about 1000 mg kg from about 0.01 mg kg to about 750 mg kg from about 100 mg kg to about 500 mg kg from about 1.0 mg kg to about 250 mg kg from about 10.0 mg kg to about 150 mg kg in one or more dose administrations daily for one or several days depending of course of the mode of administration and the factors discussed above . Other suitable dose ranges include 1 mg to 10000 mg per day 100 mg to 10000 mg per day 500 mg to 10000 mg per day and 500 mg to 1000 mg per day. In some particular embodiments the amount is less than 10 000 mg per day with a range of 750 mg to 9000 mg per day.

The effective amount may be less than 1 mg kg day less than 500 mg kg day less than 250 mg kg day less than 100 mg kg day less than 50 mg kg day less than 25 mg kg day or less than 10 mg kg day. It may alternatively be in the range of 1 mg kg day to 200 mg kg day. For example regarding treatment of diabetic patients the unit dosage may be an amount that reduces blood glucose by at least 40 as compared to an untreated subject. In another embodiment the unit dosage is an amount that reduces blood glucose to a level that is 10 of the blood glucose level of a non diabetic subject.

In other non limiting examples a dose may also comprise from about 1 micro gram kg body weight about 5 microgram kg body weight about 10 microgram kg body weight about 50 microgram kg body weight about 100 microgram kg body weight about 200 microgram kg body weight about 350 microgram kg body weight about 500 microgram kg body weight about 1 milligram kg body weight about 5 milli gram kg body weight about 10 milligram kg body weight about 50 milligram kg body weight about 100 milligram kg body weight about 200 milligram kg body weight about 350 milligram kg body weight about 500 milligram kg body weight to about 1000 mg kg body weight or more per administration and any range derivable therein. In non limiting examples of a derivable range from the numbers listed herein a range of about 5 mg kg body weight to about 100 mg kg body weight about 5 microgram kg body weight to about 500 milligram kg body weight etc. can be administered based on the numbers described above.

In certain embodiments a pharmaceutical composition of the present disclosure may comprise for example at least about 0.1 of a compound of the present disclosure. In other embodiments the compound of the present disclosure may comprise between about 2 to about 75 of the weight of the unit or between about 25 to about 60 for example and any range derivable therein.

Single or multiple doses of the agents are contemplated. Desired time intervals for delivery of multiple doses can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art employing no more than routine experimentation. As an example subjects may be administered two doses daily at approximately 12 hour intervals. In some embodiments the agent is administered once a day.

The agent s may be administered on a routine schedule. As used herein a routine schedule refers to a predetermined designated period of time. The routine schedule may encompass periods of time which are identical or which differ in length as long as the schedule is predetermined. For instance the routine schedule may involve administration twice a day every day every two days every three days every four days every five days every six days a weekly basis a monthly basis or any set number of days or weeks there between. Alternatively the predetermined routine schedule may involve administration on a twice daily basis for the first week followed by a daily basis for several months etc. In other embodiments the invention provides that the agent s may taken orally and that the timing of which is or is not dependent upon food intake. Thus for example the agent can be taken every morning and or every evening regardless of when the subject has eaten or will eat.

Effective combination therapy may be achieved with a single composition or pharmacological formulation that includes both agents or with two distinct compositions or formulations administered at the same time wherein one composition includes a compound of this invention and the other includes the second agent s . Alternatively the therapy may precede or follow the other agent treatment by intervals ranging from minutes to months.

Various combinations may be employed such as where A represents the first agent e.g. DFMO and B represents a secondary agent e.g. sulindac non limiting examples of which are described below 

The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Experimental Design The study included 440 incident CRC cases from the population based UC Irvine Gene Environment Study of Familial CRC diagnosed 1994 1996 with follow up through March 2008 . The primary outcome was CRC specific survival CRC SS dependent on ODC genotype GG vs. AA GA . In human colon cancer cell lines ODC allele specific binding of E box transcription factors was determined via western blotting and chromatin immunoprecipitation CHIP assays. ODC allele specific promoter activity was determined using promoter constructs in combination with vectors expressing either the transcriptional activator c MYC or the repressor MAD1.

Results Genotype specific survival differences among CRC cases were limited to colon cancer cases compared to ODC GG genotype cases HR 1.00 reference the adjusted CRC SS hazards ratio HR was 2.31 1.15 4.64 for ODC GA cases and 3.73 0.93 14.99 for ODC AA cases P trend 0.006 . In colon cancer cells the ODC 316 SNP flanked by two E boxes predicts ODC promoter activity. The E box activator MYC and repressors MAD1 and MAD4 preferentially bind to minor A compared to major G alleles in cultured cells.

Study Population. We studied incident cases of invasive CRC enrolled in the University of California Irvine Gene Environment Study of Familial Colorectal Cancer Peel et al. 2000 Zell et al. 2007 during 1994 1996 with follow up through March 2008. The parent study was designed to determine the incidence of HNPCC in a large population based cohort of colorectal cancer cases. Participants were identified through the population based cancer registries of the Cancer Surveillance Program of Orange County San Diego Imperial Organization for Cancer Control using the April 2008 data file. In the parent study Peel et al. 2000 all subjects with CRC diagnosed at all ages in Orange County Calif. from 1994 to 1996 were ascertained. All subjects diagnosed in San Diego and Imperial Counties Calif. at ages 

DNA Extraction and ODC 316 SNP Genotyping. DNA was extracted from 2.0 mL red blood cell clot samples using the QIAGEN QIAamp DNA Midi or Mini Kits Qiagen following the manufacturer s instructions. Genotyping of the ODC 316 SNP was conducted using oligonucleotide primers designed to amplify a 172 bp fragment containing the polymorphic base at 316 Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Allele specific TaqMan probes were synthesized with different 5 labels 6 carboxyflourescein or VIC and the same 3 quencher dye 6 carboxytetramethylrhodamine 23 . Each PCR reaction 5 L total contained 10 ng of participant DNA 30 pmol of each primer 12.5 pmol of each TaqMan probe and 1 TaqMan Universal PCR Master Mix Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. as previously reported Martinez et al. 2003 Guo et al. 2000 .

Statistical Analysis Population Based Study. Sample size was determined based on an estimated 1 1 ratio of ODC GG genotype to ODC GA AA genotype Martinez et al. 2003 Barry et al. 2006 Hubner et al. 2008 Guo et al. 2000 . Prior analysis of data from 1154 colon and rectal cancer cases in the UC Irvine Gene Environment Study of Familial CRC revealed that 10 year CRC specific survival approximated 66 Zell et al. 2008 . The inventors proposed a 15 or greater difference in CRC specific survival based on ODC genotype alone for our sample size calculations. Thus 315 total subjects were needed to detect the proposed difference in 10 year CRC specific survival between two groups at 5 significance level with 80 power 55 in group 1 vs. 70 in group 2. 440 of 481 DNA samples were successfully genotyped. 41 cases 8.5 resulted in an undetermined ODC 316 genotype due to low DNA concentration and or poor DNA quality however no clinicopathologic differences were observed between the successfully genotyped and unsuccessfully genotyped cases. Thus the study was sufficiently powered to address the primary endpoint.

Comparisons of demographic clinical and pathologic variables among colon and rectal cases were done using Pearson chi square statistic or Fisher s exact test for nominal variables and Student t test for continuous variables. Colorectal cancer specific survival was defined as mortality from CRC itself and data censoring occurred in the following instances alive at the end of follow up loss to follow up or death from any cause other than CRC. Overall survival OS was defined with mortality from any cause. Survival curves were constructed for colon and rectal cancer cases using the Kaplan Meier method and analyzed with the log rank test for univariate analyses. Cox proportional hazards modeling was performed for all CRC cases colon cancer cases and rectal cancer cases using time since diagnosis to profile the adjusted risk of overall and CRC specific death based on ODC genotype. The effects of ODC genotype GG GA or AA on survival were analyzed in the Cox models with adjustment for the following covariates age gender ethnicity family history of CRC TNM stage at diagnosis tumor site within the colon histologic subtype treatment with surgery radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Each variable in the model was coded using dummy variables. All analyses were conducted using SAS 9.2 statistical software SAS Institute Cary N.C. . Statistical significance was assumed for a 2 tailed P value 

Cell Culture. The human colon cancer cell lines HT29 and HCT116 were maintained in McCoy s 5A medium Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . All media used were supplemented with 10 FBS plus 1 penicillin streptomycin solution Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Cultures were maintained at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO2.

Genotyping Assay. DNA samples from HT29 and HCT116 cells were subjected to a PCR RFLP procedure to detect the polymorphic PstI site. Sequences were amplified by PCR using the following primers 5 TCTGCGCTTCCCCATGGGGCT 3 SEQ ID NO 1 and 5 TTTCCCAACCCTTCG 3 SEQ ID NO 2 . Each reaction contained 1 l DNA 4 pmol of each primer 12.5 l 2 PCR PreMixes buffer G EPICENTRE Biotechnologies Madison Wis. and 0.5 unit of Taq DNA polymerase in a final volume of 25 l. The expected size of the PCR product was 351 bp. After amplification 10 20 l of the PCR product were digested with 10 units of PstI in 30 l for 2 hours at 37 C. DNA from HT29 cells GA containing the PstI site yielded two fragments of 156 and 195 bp.

Western Blot Analysis. Cells were harvested lysed and proteins were separated on a 12.5 SDS PAGE gel. Proteins were transferred by electrophoresis onto a Hybond C membrane. The membrane was blocked with Blotto A 5 blocking grade dry milk in TTBS solution and probed using 1 300 dilutions of primary antibodies Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. in Blotto A. Primary antibodies were incubated at 4 C. overnight followed by incubation with an appropriate HRP tagged secondary antibody 1 1000 dilution for 1 hour at room temperature. Chemiluminescent detection was conducted using ECL Western Detection reagent Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. and exposed on Biomax XAR film Kodak .

Chromatin Immunoprecipitation CHIP . CHIP assays were performed using a commercial kit as recommended by the manufacturer Upstate Biotech Lake Placid N.Y. USA . Briefly cells were treated with 1 formaldehyde to crosslink DNA and proteins and DNA protein complexes were disrupted by sonication to lengths between 200 to 1000 bp. Lysates were diluted 10 fold with immunoprecipitation IP dilution buffer containing protease inhibitors. Antibodies for c MYC MAD1 and MAD4 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. were used to precipitate chromatin while additional sample was left as a minus antibody Ab control. Samples were immunoprecipitated overnight at 4 C. with rotation. Immune complexes were obtained by adding 60 ul of salmon sperm DNA protein A Agarose slurry and incubating for an hour at 4 C. with rotation followed by gentle centrifugation 1000 rpm 1 min . Protein A agarose pellets were washed with low salt buffer high salt buffer LiCl buffer and TE buffer. Then the complexes were eluted by adding 250 l elution buffer 0.1M NaHCO3 1 SDS twice and DNA protein crosslinks were reversed with 0.2M NaCl by heating at 65 C. for 4 hours for all samples including the input DNA and Ab DNA controls. DNA was resuspended in 30 ul of ddH2O. For visualization of PCR product and its size standard PCR reactions were carried out. The sequences of ODC primers used for PCR were 5 CCTGGGCGCTCTGAGGT 3 SEQ ID NO 3 17mer and 5 AGGAAGCGGCGCCTCAA 3 SEQ ID NO 4 17mer . Quantitative real time PCR was performed using TaqMan gene expression assays kit Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. on an ABI7700 sequence detection system. Details for the computation of relative binding can be found on the manufacturer s web site http www.appliedbiosystems.com .

Transient Transfections. Transient transfections were preformed using LipofectAMINE reagent Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. according to the manufacturer s protocol as detailed in the supplementary file. HCT116 and HT29 cells were transfected with 1 g of pGL3 ODC A or pGL3 ODC G plasmids Martinez et al. 2003 along with 0.01 g of Renilla TK plasmid. The Renilla TK plasmid was purchased from Promega Madison Wis. and used as a transfection efficiency control in all promoter reporter transfection experiments. For c MYC experiments ODC pGL3 plasmids were co transfected with either pcDNA 3.0 or CMV c MYC expression vector OriGene Rockville Md. . For MAD1 experiments the ODC plasmids were co transfected with either pcDNA 3.1 or pcDNA MAD1. For c MYC and MAD1 co transfection ODC promoter reporter constructs were prepared which contain the first 1.6 Kb of the ODC gene cloned into a pGL3 vector. The constructs included E box 1 485 to 480 bp intact wt E box 1 or deleted mut E box 1 . Additionally both variants of the 316 ODC SNP were used creating a total of 4 different constructs. After 6 hours of incubation cells were supplemented with complete medium containing 20 FBS and left to grow overnight. The next day after transfection 20 FBS containing complete medium was replaced with 10 FBS containing medium. 48 hours after transfection cells were washed with PBS and lysed in Passive Lysis Buffer from the Dual Luciferase Assay kit Promega Madison Wis. . Dual luciferase activities were measured using a Turner Designs TD 20 20 luminometer as described by the manufacturer and presented as relative luciferase units RLU . Experiments were preformed in triplicates and repeated at least 2 times.

Statistical Analysis Experimental Studies. For transient transfection experiments two sample t tests were used Microsoft Excel Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. . The effect of c MYC expression on ODC allele specific promoter activity was examined in HT29 colon cancer cells using ODC promoter constructs differing by the presence of the first E box element a wild type wt E box1 316 G b mutant mut E box1 316 G c wt E box1 316 A and d mut E box1 316 A. For each promoter construct two sample t tests were used to compare promoter activity between cells co transfected with pcDNA3.0 plasmid versus those transfected with the CMV c MYC expression vector. Similarly to examine the effect of MAD1 expression on ODC allele specific promoter activity two sample t tests were used to compare the effect of promoter activity in promoter constructs co transfected with pcDNA3.1 plasmid versus those transfected with pcDNA MAD1 plasmid. Statistical significance was assumed for a 2 tailed P value 

This study involves analysis of patient data from the multicenter phase III colon adenoma prevention trial Meyskens et al. 2008 . 375 patients were enrolled and the study was halted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board DSMB after 267 patients completed end of study colonoscopies due to the study meeting its efficacy endpoints . The DSMB monitored all safety and efficacy endpoints. Blood specimens were collected on 228 consenting study patients for genotyping analysis after November 2002 including 159 of 246 patients randomized before and 69 of 129 patients randomized after this date when the protocol was modified in light of data demonstrating the importance of the ODC1 SNP 2 . ODC1 rs2302615 genotyping was conducted on patient derived genomic DNA using allele specific TaqMan probes as described previously Guo et al. 2000 . Rectal tissue polyamine content was determined as described previously Meyskens et al. 1998 Seiler and Knodgen 1980 using 3 of 8 randomly selected rectal mucosal biopsy specimens. Tissue polyamine response was performed for response values ranging from 25 to 45 .

ODC1 genotype was analyzed under a dominant model AA GA vs. GG patients. Wilcoxon Rank Sums tests were performed on non normally distributed continuous variables across two genotype groups. Chi square tests or Fisher s Exact Test were utilized to assess the association between baseline categorical variables and genotype group. Log binomial regression was performed on the primary outcome adenoma recurrence with predictors treatment group age gender race Caucasian vs. other aspirin usage ODC1 genotype in the dominant model and a term representing the treatment by genotype interaction. For secondary outcomes rectal tissue polyamine response toxicities the effects of treatment group genotype and interaction between treatment and genotype were examined using full log binomial models. Statistical analyses were conducted using SAS 9.2 statistical software SAS Inc. Cary N.C. . Patients signed informed consent for trial inclusion and specimen retrieval analysis. The study was approved after full committee review by the UC Irvine institutional review board IRB protocol 2002 2261 and review by each of the local IRBs at participating study sites.

ODC1 genotype distribution was 126 GG 55 87 GA 38 and 15 AA 7 . Baseline clinical characteristics revealed differences as shown in Table 1. The relative risk RR for adenoma recurrence related to treatment after adjustment in the full regression model was 0.39 95 CI 0.24 0.66 . Among patients receiving placebo or treatment respectively ototoxicity occurred in 23 vs. 22 of ODC1 GG patients 20 vs. 21 of ODC1 GA patients and 0 0 of 7 vs. 57 4 of 7 of ODC1 AA patients.

All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following references to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

