---

title: System and method for message-based purchasing
abstract: Various embodiments of a system and method for message-based purchasing are described. The system and method for message-based purchasing may include a message-based purchase service configured to determine that a selection has been performed through a network-based interface. Such selection may be indicative of one or more items offered for sale via the network-based interface. The message-based purchase service may be configured to, in response to the selection of one or more items, send to a communication device, a message indicating a code corresponding to the selection. The message-based purchase service may receive from the communication device through a communication channel that does not include the network-based interface, a message including the code. The message-based purchase service may be configured to, in response to determining that the message received from the communication device includes the code, generate a purchase request for the one or more previously selected items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08533059&OS=08533059&RS=08533059
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08533059
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120807
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 057 148 filed Mar. 27 2008 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety.

The Internet sometimes called simply the Net is a worldwide system of computer networks in which a client at any one computer may with permission obtain information from any other computer. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WWW which is commonly referred to as the web. The web may be defined as all the resources e.g. web pages and web sites and users on the Internet that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or variations thereof to access the resources. A web site is a related collection of web files that includes a beginning file called a home page. From the home page the user may navigate to other web pages on the web site. A web server program is a program that using the client server model and HTTP serves the files that form the web pages of a web site to the web users whose computers contain HTTP client programs e.g. web browsers that forward requests and display responses. A web server program may host one or more web sites.

Generally speaking a web service interface may be configured to provide a standard cross platform API Application Programming Interface for communication between a client requesting some service to be performed and the service provider. In some embodiments a web service interface may be configured to support the exchange of documents or messages including information describing the service request and response to that request. Such documents or messages may be exchanged using standardized web protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example and may be formatted in a platform independent data format such as eXtensible Markup Language XML for example.

Mobile telephony has emerged alongside the Internet and the web and the two technologies have crossed over and merged to form what is essentially a global communications and information network. Cellular telephones for example have become digital and continue to become more sophisticated. Today many digital cell phones are capable of web access via their cellular service providers. Similarly many web applications are capable of telephone communications to conventional phones and to mobile telephones. In addition other technologies such as text messaging have emerged to enhance the capabilities and uses of mobile telephones and other personal electronic devices. Further other personal electronic devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may provide mobile telephone links to the web and user interfaces for accessing the web along with text messaging and other information and communications capabilities. Thus these devices are part of the emerging global communications and information network. SMS Short Message Service is an exemplary service for sending messages of up to 160 characters 224 characters if using a 5 bit mode to mobile phones. SMS does not require the mobile phone to be active and within range. An SMS message may be held until the target phone is active and within range. SMS messages may be transmitted within the same cell or out of the cell to phones with roaming service capability. SMS messages may also be sent to digital phones from a web site or from one digital phone to another. An SMS gateway is a web site that accepts SMS messages for transmission to cell phones within the cell served by that gateway or that acts as an international gateway for users with roaming capability.

Various applications of the Internet and of the web involve marketplaces that provide goods and services for sale. For instance consumers may visit a merchant s website to view goods and services offered for sale. With the merging of mobile telephony and other technologies and the web into an emerging global communications and information network these other technologies have become part of such marketplaces in many such applications.

While the system and method for message based purchasing is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for message based purchasing is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the system and method for message based purchasing to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for message based purchasing as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for message based purchasing are described. The system and method for message based purchasing may include a message based purchase service configured to determine that a selection has been performed through a network based interface. Such selection may be indicative of one or more items offered for sale via the network based interface. For instance in one embodiment a network based interface may provide one or more sales listing e.g. in the form of web pages that may include user interface controls for selecting one or more items. The message based purchase service may be configured to in response to the selection of one or more items send to a communication device a message indicating a code corresponding to the selection. For instance in one embodiment the message based purchase service may send a text message that includes a particular code to a user s cell phone. In many cases the communication device is a mobile device thus enabling a user to access the message including the code from a variety of locations. In some cases the user may bring their communication device to a retail store to view or operate one or more of the items selected via the network based interface. For instance the user may have selected a television via the network based interface but would like to view the television in operation before committing to a purchase. In various embodiments the user may commit to a purchase by sending a message including the code previously received to the message based purchase service described herein. Accordingly the message based purchase service may also be configured to receive from the communication device through a communication channel that does not include the network based interface a message including the code. For instance following the example above a user may in one embodiment send a text message including the code to the message based purchase service. The message based purchase service may be configured to in response to determining that the message received from the communication device includes the code generate a purchase request for the one or more previously selected items.

The message based purchase service described herein may in various embodiments support communications via various communication channels. Communication channels may include any methods or mechanisms for transmitting information between entities. Communication channels generally include protocols for information transfer e.g. Short Message Service SMS for text messaging media over or through which information is transmitted according to the protocols and infrastructures for supporting the transmissions e.g. cellular telephone service providers . Further a communication channel may require various devices that enable entities to communicate via the communication channel for example a mobile phone satellite phone cell phone conventional telephone computer system or Personal Digital Assistant PDA . Examples of communication channels include but are not limited to conventional land based telephone systems mobile or cellular telephone systems satellite telephone systems email instant messaging IM Voice over IP VoIP and text messaging. Note that separate communication channels may share one or more of protocol media infrastructure and enabling device. For example text messaging and cellular telephone systems may be enabled through the same device a cell phone and may transmit over the same medium.

Note that communications on communication channels over which voice messages may be transmitted e.g. conventional land based telephone systems mobile or cellular telephone systems satellite telephone systems VoIP etc. may collectively be referred to herein as voice communications and likewise the channels may be referred to collectively as voice communication channels . Further note that voice communications includes both live or real human voice communications and automated voice systems. Automated voice systems include automated systems in which synthesized or recorded voice messages are transmitted to communicate information. Note that some automated voice systems may transmit at least some synthesized or recorded voice messages in response to vocal input via voice recognition technology or other input into a communication device e.g. numeric key pad entries .

In some embodiments a communication channel may include a network based interface configured to support communications between a network based entity e.g. an online service or a web server supporting such service and one or more other entities e.g. users accessing such a service via the Internet or another network . One example of a network based interface includes network based interface described in more detail in regard to below. In various embodiments a network based interface may be a web based interface configured for communications via the Internet or World Wide Web. For instance in one embodiment such a network based interface may be configured to provide a user with one or more web pages for browsing or purchasing items. For example if a network based interface were implemented as part of an online merchant s website the network based interface may provide one or more product web pages enabling users to purchase one or more items via the Internet. In many embodiments access to such a network based interface may include the use of a personal computer equipped with a web browser such as Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Opera. In various embodiments the e commerce portal described herein may present its functionality to various users e.g. users described below via such a network based interface.

In various embodiments message based purchase service may be implemented via a host computer system such as the system described below with respect to . In one embodiment message based purchase service may be implemented as a web host or server configured to interact with users via web based protocols. For example message based purchase service may be configured to present web pages or other content to users in response to HTTP requests originating from web browsers operated by users . Such content and or other information about users such as described below may be stored by data store . In various embodiments data store may be configured as a database as one or more mass storage devices e.g. physical disks logical volumes etc. configured to store data blocks or files or in any other suitable configuration for data storage.

In some embodiments message based purchase service may be configured to present its functionality via a web services interface. For example message based purchase service may implement a web services endpoint e.g. as indicated by a particular uniform resource indicator URI though which clients such as applications executing on behalf of users may submit requests for services to be performed by message based purchase service . In an implementation of message based purchase service conforming to a Representational State Transfer REST style web services architecture clients of message based purchase service may interface with message based purchase service to request web services by appending various parameters to an HTTP request directed to the URI corresponding to message based purchase service . Alternatively message based purchase service may implement a document or message oriented web services architecture. For example a client may format a web services request as an eXtensible Markup Language XML document encapsulating such a document using a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and conveying the resulting encapsulated document to message based purchase service via HTTP or another suitable protocol. Collectively the presentation of a web services interface and or an interactive web page based browser accessible interface by message based purchase service may be generically referred to as a network based interface. This functionality may be provided by network based interface of .

It is also contemplated that in some embodiments message based purchase service may interact with users using protocols other than web services related protocols. For example such communication may take place using protocols such as Telnet Remote Procedure Call RPC or other standard or proprietary protocols. Further it is contemplated that in some embodiments message based purchase service may be a dedicated system while in other embodiments the functionality of message based purchase service may be integrated along with other potentially unrelated functionality. In one such embodiment message based purchase service may be implemented as a component of an e commerce portal that may provide numerous other features to users besides the features provided by message based purchase service . For example such an e commerce portal may offer users the opportunity to shop for and order merchandise transact payments offer their own merchandise to other users and or perform other commerce related activities.

Generally speaking users may correspond to private individuals acting on their own behalf or acting as agents on behalf of other individuals or organizations with respect to their interactions with message based purchase service . Users may interact with message based purchase service through any suitable technique supported by message based purchase service . For example users may access message based purchase service via a web browser or an application configured to implement a web services interface to message based purchase service . In some embodiments users may also access message based purchase service via electronic mail email SMS messaging or other suitable techniques. In some embodiments each of users may be associated with a respective unique identifier such as a user ID or email address. In some such embodiments message based purchase service or a broader system including message based purchase service may support additional credentialing features with which to authenticate users prior to allowing users to interact with message based purchase service . For example message based purchase service may be implemented along with an e commerce portal the e commerce portal may implement a user accounts feature through which users are uniquely identified by a user ID password combination. Upon supplying the appropriate credentials to the e commerce portal a given user may be allowed to interact with features of message based purchase service and or other features of the e commerce portal.

An alternative architecture employing message based purchase service is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment users do not interact directly with message based purchase service but rather with a host system which in turn is configured to interact with message based purchase service . Such an architecture may facilitate the deployment of the features of message based purchase service by a third party entity or enterprise for the benefit of its users. For example host system may be representative of the information technology IT infrastructure of an organization having a number of affiliated users e.g. a business with employees a university or school with students etc. . Users may use various features provided by the organization via host system such as web delivered content email services etc. An organization may elect to expose certain aspects of its infrastructure to message based purchase service in order to provide the features of message based purchase service without requiring users to interact with message based purchase service directly. For example the user interface presented by host system may integrate features provided by message based purchase service as well as features provided by the organization. Host system may integrate such features in a manner transparent to users or may separately identify features provided by message based purchase service e.g. via a co branding arrangement .

In various embodiments host system may be a component of an e commerce portal such as a network based server e.g. a web server configured to provide product sales listings e.g. product web pages to various ones of users . Such product sales listings may each include a description of an item e.g. text image or multimedia descriptions . Such an ecommerce portal may enable users to browse such product sales listings and select one or more items for purchase. In some cases user may desire to first view inspect or operate an item in person before committing to a purchase via the e commerce portal. For example if user were interested in purchasing a television user may desire to view and or operate a television of the same make and model before committing to purchasing the item. For instance user may travel to a retail store to view or operate a television of the same make and model in person. Additionally or alternatively user may desire to compare a price at which the television is offered for sale by the e commerce portal to a price at which a television of the same make and model is offered for sale by a competitor such as a retail store. Accordingly the message based purchase service may enable a user to conveniently suspend a purchase or potential purchase of an item and optionally purchase the item at a later time e.g. when the user is viewing or operating the item in a retail store as described in more detail below.

In some embodiments as is the case in the illustrated embodiment network based interface may be a component of host system . Network based interface may be configured to provide users with network based content such as various web pages. As described above host system may be a component of an e commerce portal. Accordingly network based interface may provide access to such e commerce portal to various ones of users . For instance network based interface may provide sales listings such as product web pages that enable users to browse through descriptions of various items for sale. Such web pages may include various user accessible controls buttons text entry fields and other user interface elements for performing various actions such as purchasing an item.

In various cases users and message based purchase service may communicate through communications channels that do not include a network based interface e.g. network based interface . One such case is demonstrated by which illustrated users communicating with message based purchase service via various communication devices collectively referred to as communication devices . A generic one of communication device may be referred to herein as communication device .

In various embodiments communication device may be a device configured to communicate with message based purchase service via a text messaging communication channel. For instance the communication device may be configured to transmit text messages to receive text messages from and or exchange text messages with message based purchase service . In various embodiments such text messaging communications may adhere to one or more text messaging protocols including but not limited to SMS or other text messaging protocols whether such other text messaging protocols are presently known or developed in the future.

In various embodiments communication device may be configured to communicate with message based purchase service via a voice communication channel. Communication device may be a cellular telephone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA or other device configured to communicate with the message based purchase service via one or more cellular technologies including but not limited to Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and or other cellular technologies whether such technologies are presently known or developed in the future.

In various embodiments communication device may be registered for access with message based purchase service . For instance message based purchase service may store one or more records of communication device within data store . In some embodiments such records may include a telephone number of communication device or some other device identifier such as device s serial number or device s International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI number.

Various methods may be performed by message based purchase service described herein. One such method is illustrated by the flowchart of . Operation of the method begins with determining that a selection has been performed through a network based interface the selection indicative of one or more items offered for sale via the network based interface block . In some embodiments determining that a selection has been performed may include determining that user has selected via network based interface one or more items offered for sale via network based interface . For instance as described above host system may be a component of an e commerce portal and network based interface may provide access to such e commerce portal to user . For example network based interface may provide user with one or more sales listings such as product web pages. Such sales listings may include one or more controls for selecting one or more items. Determining that such a selection has been performed may include determining that one or more of such controls have been selected. One example of such controls is described below with respect to .

Referring momentarily to a browser display is illustrated. Browser display includes examples of content and controls that may be provided to users by network based interface . For instance sales listing content may include information about one or more items for sale such as images multimedia and or text based descriptions of the one or more items for sale. In the illustrated embodiment the sales listing content corresponds to a television however sales listing content may in other cases correspond to any goods or services. In some cases a user may choose to purchase the item described by selecting purchase control . However as described above there may be cases where user is not yet prepared to purchase the item described by the sales listing content. For instance the user may desire to view inspect and or operate an item of the same type e.g. same make and model at a retail store in order to determine if he would like to purchase the item. In such cases the user may indicate that he is interested in the item but not yet ready to commit to purchasing the item by selecting selection control A. Note that multiple displays may exist for multiple items for sale. Each display may have a control similar to selection control A user may select multiple items by selecting each item s respective selection control. Returning to determining that a selection has been performed through a network based interface may include determining that a user has selected one or more of such selection controls. Note that in other embodiments users may select an item via network based interface through other techniques such as selecting items from a list entering model numbers or item numbers of items entering stock keeping unit SKU numbers or indicating an item in some other manner. In general the method may include detecting any selection performed by a user via network based interface .

In response to such selection performed through the network based interface the method may include sending to a communication device e.g. communication device a message indicating a code corresponding to the selection block . Such code may be generated by message based purchase service and may include various characters numbers and or symbols. For instance examples of codes might include buy item ABC123 1G 3 df95 or some other code. The particular communication device to which the message is sent may be a communication device previously registered by the user with the message based purchase service. One example of such a communication device includes communication device described above. For example message based purchase service may use the identity of the user that performed the selection of block to determine which communication device should be sent the message indicating the code. For instance message based purchase service may determine a device as specified by a customer account configuration file associated with the user. Such configuration file might specify information associated with the customers account such as device identifiers e.g. phone numbers etc. and account preferences e.g. shipping and or billing preferences .

In various embodiments sending the message indicating the code may include sending such message via a communications channel that does not include network based interface . For instance in some embodiments message based purchase service may include utilizing a text messaging communication channel by sending a text message including the code to the communication device. In some embodiments such text message may adhere to a text messaging protocol such as the Short Message Service SMS protocol. In some embodiments message based purchase service may send an email message to the communication device e.g. if the communication device is configured for email access . In some embodiments the communication device may be equipped with a dedicated client application for receiving messages from a message based purchase service according to one or more communication protocols. In such cases message based purchase service may be configured to send the message to the dedicated client according to such protocols.

Referring momentarily to one example of such a message sent to the communication device by message based purchase service includes the illustrated message A. In some cases message A may be a text message such as a message adhering to the SMS protocol or some other text messaging protocol. Note that the code of message A is represented as buy3479. Note that in other embodiments such code might be delivered to the communication device via some other communication channel. For example message based purchase service may utilize a voice communication channel to send the code to the communication device. For instance message based purchase service may utilize an automated voice system to call the communication device and deliver the illustrated message via synthesized voice. In the illustrated embodiment the message sent to the communication device corresponds to the television of . However in other cases messages corresponding to other goods or services may be sent to the communication device.

By sending the message including the code to a communication device associated with user the message based purchase service may enable the user to easily and conveniently purchase a selected item without accessing network based interface subsequent to the original selection of such item e.g. as described in regard to block . For instance user may select one or more items via network based interface described above such as items that user is interested in purchasing whether via a merchant controlling the network based interface or another merchant such as a retail store . By sending such message to communication device which in many cases may be a mobile device e.g. cell phone PDA smart phone etc. the message based purchase service may enable the user to purchase an item from the merchant controlling the network based interface without subsequent access to the network based interface e.g. access of the network based interface subsequent to the selection of the one or more items .

Accordingly the method of may include receiving from the communication device through a communication channel that does not include the network based interface a message including the code block . For instance the method may include receiving a message sent by user via communication device . For instance the method may include message based purchase service receiving such message from communication device via a text messaging communication channel or a voice communication channel. In some embodiments the received message may be a message sent as a reply to the message that the message based purchase service sent to the communication device. For example many text messaging clients include features such as the reply control illustrated in that enable a user to reply to messages received by the communication device such as messages stored in an inbox of the text messaging client. Such reply functionality may pre populate portions of the reply message such as a destination address. Utilizing such reply functionality may be convenient for user when replying via a communication channel that is the same type of communication channel through which the received message was sent by the message based purchase service. For instance if message based purchase service sends a message including a code via a text messaging communication channel it may be convenient for the user to reply via a text messaging communication channel. However in some embodiments the user may send a reply message via another communication channel such as a voice communication channel. Accordingly in some embodiments the message based purchase service may be configured to receive a reply message including the code via a communication channel that is different than the communication channel through which the message based purchase service sent its message to the communication channel.

Referring momentarily to one example of a message received by the message based purchase service is illustrated. In the illustrated embodiment message is a message sent from communication device in response to message A of . As illustrated message includes the code e.g. buy3479 that was included in the message sent to the communication device by the message based purchase service. For example user may have viewed and or operated a model of the same type e.g. same make and model at a retail store and decided to purchase the item by sending the message include the code to the message based purchase service. In this way user may utilize communication device to purchase items when access to network based interface is not available such as when user is located at a retail store. In other cases the user may have access to network based interface but may prefer to purchase an item by sending a message include a code as described above.

Returning to the method may include in response to determining that the received message includes the code generating a purchase request for the one or more items. As described above message based purchase service may be implemented as a component of an e commerce portal. Accordingly in response to determining that the received message includes the code the message based purchase service may generate a purchase request for the e commerce portal. The purchase request may specify information including but not limited to the customers identity e.g. name or customer ID the item s to be purchased and associated quantities the billing information for such purchase e.g. payment method credit card numbers bank account and routing numbers etc. and shipping information for the such purchase e.g. shipping method shipping carrier etc. . In some embodiments the purchase request may be provided to and fulfilled by a commercial entity controlling the message based purchase service. In other cases the purchase request may be provided to and fulfilled by another commercial entity such as a third party merchant.

In various embodiments the method may include authorizing such purchase request. For instance in one embodiment message based purchase service may send an authorization request message to the communication device via a communication channel other than the communication channel through which the message based purchase service received the message including the code from the communication device. For instance if the user sent the message including the code from the communication device to the message based purchase service via a text messaging communication channel the message based purchase service may contact user with an authorization request message via a voice communication channel. For example the message based purchase service may contact the user with an automated voice system at a telephone number of the communication device such telephone number may have been previously registered with the message based purchase service or a commercial entity controlling the message based purchase service. The authorization request message may prompt the user for validation information to verify the user s identity. For instance such information may include a Personal Identification Number PIN a passcode a pass phrase a mother s maiden name last four digits of Social Security number or some other information for verifying the user s identity. If message based purchase service receives a message including the requested validation information from the communication device via the same communication channel through which the validation information was requested the message based purchase service may indicate the purchase request as authorized. The message based purchase service may provide such indication to another commercial entity such as a third party merchant.

In some embodiments the method may include generating mapping information indicating a correspondence between the code that is to be sent to the user and information for generating the purchase request. For instance as described above with respect to block the method may include the message based purchase service sending a code to a communication device. Message based purchase service may generate mapping information that indicates a correspondence between this code and one or more other elements including but not limited to an indication of the selected item s e.g. one or more item identifiers or SKUs shipping preferences e.g. a shipping address shipping carrier shipping method and billing preferences payment method credit card numbers bank account and routing numbers etc. . The message based purchase service may in various embodiments generate a purchase request e.g. block based on this mapping information. For instance a purchase request might indicate the items purchased a credit card number of an account to be charged for the items and that the items are to be shipped by ground.

In some embodiments the method may include sending to the communication device a message indicating a promotional discount for the one or more selected items. For example message based purchase service may determine that a message including the code has not been received from the communication device. For instance the user of the communication device may no longer be interested in the selected item s or may have forgotten about the selected items. Accordingly message based purchase service may send a promotional discount message to the communication device. For instance such promotional discount message may entice the user of the communication device to purchase the item. Such enticement might include offering a lower than advertised price or a discount based on quantity of items purchased. The discount may also have a time based expiration. For example the promotional discount message might indicate Reply with buy3479 within the next 5 minutes to receive 30 off the normal purchase price of Acme 42 Television. 

In some embodiments the method may include sending a reminder message to the communication device in order to remind the user about the selected item. For example if the message based purchase service has not received a message including the code from the communication device after a given time period the message based purchase service may conclude for example that the user of the communication device has forgotten about the selected items. Accordingly message based purchase service may in respond to determining that a given time period has elapsed send a second message indicating the code corresponding to the selection performed via the network based interface.

In various embodiments the method may include sending a message indicating the code to the communication device in response to determining that the communication device is located within a given geographical region. For instance the message based purchase service may determine that the communication device is located in or around a retail store that carries one or more items selected by the user as described above with respect to block . In response to such determination the message based purchase service may send the communication device a message indicating the code. In some cases this may be the message described above with respect to block however in other case such message may be a message sent subsequent to the message described above with respect to block . To determine the communication device s location message based purchase service may be configured to determine the communication device s location through use of the Global Positioning System GPS . In other embodiments the message based purchase service may be configured to determine the communication device s location through various alternative techniques including but not limited to the use of cellular telephone tower triangulation or alternatives to GPS such as China s Beidou Navigation System or Russia s Global Navigation Satellite System. One skilled in the art will recognize that any of various methods may be employed to determine a communication device s location. It is the intention of various embodiments to include all such methods for determining a communication device s location whether such methods are presently known or developed in the future.

As described above the message based purchase service may in some embodiments be a component of an e commerce portal such as an e commerce portal that offers users the opportunity to shop for and order merchandise transact payments offer their own merchandise to other users and or perform other commerce related activities. For instance such e commerce portal may offer a variety of items for sale including the items selected by user via the network based interface. While user selects such items the e commerce portal may offer the selected items for sale at a give price. Some time after the selection such price may be modified by the e commerce portal for various reasons including but not limited to issues related to supply and demand as well as changes in price offered by third party merchants or distributors. However in some embodiments the e commerce portal may hold the price of the selected items constant for user for a given time period. In other words even when the e commerce portal changes the price of the selected items the user may purchase the selected items at the given price during such time period by sending the message including the code to the message based purchase service via a communication channel that does not include the network based interface. For instance subsequent to a price modification of the selected items the message based purchase service may receive such message including the code e.g. the code sent to the communication device as described above in regard to block from the communication device and subsequent to determining that the received message includes the code process a sale of the selected items at the given price. In this way the message based purchase service may enable a user to hold an item at a particular price for a give time period without necessarily committing to purchasing the item. Note that after the given time period has expired the e commerce portal may in some embodiments prevent the sale of the selected items at the given price. If such prevention is implemented the e commerce portal may in some cases offer the selected items to user at a different price.

In various embodiments such an e commerce portal may be configured to in response to the selection describe above with respect to block reserve one or more of the items selected for a given time period. For instance to ensure that such selected items are in stock if when a message including the code is received from communication device the e commerce portal may reserve such items for a given period of time. Reserving the selected items may include preventing the sale of such items to entities other than an entity controlling communication device e.g. user . In some embodiments the message based purchase service may be configured to render the code invalid after a given time period. In some cases the e commerce portal may release reserved items when such time period expires.

In various embodiments the sending of the message including the purchase code to the communication device may be dependent on the price of the item s indicated by the selection. includes a flowchart illustrating one example of such a method. The method may begin by determining that a selection has been performed through a network based interface such selection may be indicative of one or more items offered for sale via the network based interface block . In some embodiments determining that a selection has been performed may include determining that user has selected via network based interface one or more items offered for sale via network based interface . For instance as described above host system may be a component of an e commerce portal and network based interface may provide access to such e commerce portal to user . For example network based interface may provide user with one or more sales listings such as product web pages. Such sales listings may include one or more controls for selecting one or more items. Determining that such a selection has been performed may include determining that one or more of such controls have been selected. In some embodiments such a selection may also be accompanied by a price threshold specified by a user. For instance user may specify that he desires to be notified when the selected item s e.g. drop below 100.00 or e.g. drop 10 in price. The method may include detecting or determining such threshold specified by user . In other cases such threshold may be specified by message based purchase service .

Referring momentarily to a browser display is illustrated. Browser display includes examples of content and controls that may be provided to users by network based interface . For instance sales listing content may include information about one or more items for sale such as images multimedia and or text based descriptions of the one or more items for sale. As is the case in the sales listing content corresponds to a television however sales listing content may in other cases correspond to any goods or services. In some cases a user may choose to purchase the item described by selecting purchase control . However as described above there may be cases where user is not yet prepared to purchase the item described by the sales listing content. For instance the user may desire to view inspect and or operate an item of the same type e.g. same make and model at a retail store in order to determine if he would like to purchase the item. In some embodiments the user may be currently unsatisfied with the price of the item and may desire to delay purchase until the item is available at a different e.g. lower price. In such cases the user may indicate that he is interested in the item but not yet ready to commit to purchasing the item by selecting selection control B. Note that selection control B is similar to selection control A described above. However as is the case in the illustrated embodiment selection control B may enable user to specify a price at which he would consider purchasing the item such as the price threshold described above. The method described herein may include determining the selection of such a selection control as well as the input of a price threshold.

Returning to the method may further include in response to determining that the one or more items are offered for sale at or below a particular price such as the price threshold described above sending to a communication device a message indicating a code corresponding to the selection block . For instance the method may include message based purchase service actively monitoring the price s of the item s indicated by user s selection. In other cases the method may include message based purchase service receiving an indication from another system or entity such as an e commerce portal that manages the sales listing for the particular item s such indication may indicate the current price of the item s or that the price of the item s has met a particular threshold e.g. the threshold described above in regard to block .

Once it is determined that the item s are offered for sale at or below a particular price the method may include sending a message indicating a code corresponding to the selection to the communication device in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block . One example of such a message is illustrated by message B of . As illustrated the message includes an indication that the price of the selected item has been reduced to a particular price. The message also includes a code buy3479 which may be used to purchase such item in a manner similar to the manner described above with respect to . Note that the code buy3479 is merely exemplary and that any other type of code could be implemented according to various embodiments. Additionally the method may include receiving from the communication device through a communication channel that does not include the network based interface a message including the code block . The method may also include in response to determining that said received message includes said code generating a purchase request for said one or more items block . The operation of the method with respect to block and block may be the similar to or the same as the operation of the method described above with respect to block and block respectively.

Subsequent to the selection the method may include the entity receiving a message on a communication device such message may indicate a code corresponding to the selection block . Such code may be generated by message based purchase service and may include various characters numbers and or symbols. For instance examples of codes might include buy item ABC123 1G 3 df95 or some other code. The particular communication device that receives the message may be a communication device previously registered by user with message based purchase service . Examples of such communication devices include a cellular telephone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA or other device configured to communicate with the message based purchase service via one or more cellular technologies.

The message received by the entity may enable the user to easily and conveniently purchase a selected item without accessing network based interface . For instance the code received by the communication device may be provided to message based purchase service to indicate that the entity desires to purchase the selected items. Since this may be performed from the communication device which is in many cases a mobile device the entity need not be bound to a particular location when deciding to purchase items previously selected. For instance the entity could be located in a retail store and evaluating items that are the same as the selected items. For instance if the entity had conveyed a selection of a television the entity could evaluate the television at a retail store. Upon deciding on purchasing the item the entity may send the code to the message based purchase service without accessing the network based interface. Accordingly the method may include sending from the communication device through a communication channel that does not include the network based interface a message including the code. Such message may be sent by the entity via any of the various messages as described above including but not limited to a text message or an email message.

Various embodiments of a system and method for message based purchasing as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by . Computer system may be capable of implementing a message based purchase service such as message based purchase service . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing a message based purchase service such as described above are shown stored within system memory as message based purchase service . In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network e.g. network such as other computer systems e.g. communication devices or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement message based purchase service such as message based purchase service . In one embodiment message based purchase service may implement the methods described above such as the method illustrated by . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly various embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of the actions of the methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

These various embodiments described herein are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

