---

title: Motion-detecting device user authentication
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are provided for user authentication required for conducting online financial institution transactions. The disclosed embodiments leverage the capabilities of platforms other than conventional personal computers and laptops, such as gaming consoles and wireless devices. Unique intrinsic user activities, such as controller motions or activities, built-in hardware signatures or other input data are used as the authentication mechanism, so as to provide a higher degree of security in the overall authentication process by lessening the likelihood of password replication or interception during network communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08522037&OS=08522037&RS=08522037
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08522037
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120106
---
The present invention is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 345 339 entitled Gaming Console Specific User Authentication filed on Dec. 29 2008 and assigned to the assignee of the present application.

In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to systems methods and computer program products for providing user authentication and more specifically implementing gaming console specific user authentication inputs to perform user authentication for gaming console based applications such as financial institution service applications or the like.

Currently online and mobile banking provide financial institution customers the ability to make payments transfer funds and the like via personal computers or other computing devices capable of connecting with the Internet. However the security of such web based transactions is at risk because the financial institution has no way to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of these transactions. This is due to the fact that the financial institutions have no means to ensure that the customer s device or system provides the necessary degree of security irrespective of the customer being an individual customer or a business customer.

Specifically personal computers are inherently not designed to provide the highest possible level of security. This is because the user of the personal computer demands the freedom to be able to execute any type of software firmware or the like regardless of the security protection provided to the software. In this regard personal computers are configured to allow for executing both secure software and unsecure software.

In addition most online and or mobile banking use standard alpha numeric password based authentication schemes to verify the identity of the customer. These types of passwords are readily susceptible to being intercepted during communication to the financial institution or otherwise fraudulently acquired by a hacker via an attack. While most passwords are not generally stored on a personal computer or financial institution server in plaintext even encrypted and hashed schemed passwords are susceptible to attack or interception. For example a hacker may intercept an encrypted or encrypted hashed password from the network and use an off line attack such as a dictionary attack in which the attacker takes every known word and encrypts it with the network s encryption algorithm hoping to find a match with an intercepted password hash .

Once the customer s password has been nefariously acquired or the encryption of the password compromised the hacker is free to illegally conduct financial transactions as if they were the customer. Thus the need to ensure user authentication when conducting online financial transactions is imperative.

In addition conventional alpha numeric passwords have a tendency to be forgotten by the user. This is especially the case in instances in which the customer user infrequently conducts transactions with the online financial service and thus the password is infrequently used. If an alpha numeric password is forgotten by the user customer the customer may in a worst case scenario be barred from accessing the online financial service or at a minimum be forced to proceed with a time consuming password re acquisition re setting process.

Also current online financial transaction platforms are generally limited to personal computers laptops or the like. While in some instances wireless devices may be used for mobile financial transactions. These devices are somewhat limited in terms of their capability to support another authentication mechanism other than a conventional alpha numeric password.

Therefore a need exists to develop methods systems computer program products and the like which provide for secure user authentication for applications being executed on gaming console devices such as online financial service applications or the like. The desired methods systems and the like should supplant the use of conventional alpha numeric passwords and reduce the threat from password attacks due to users customers storing passwords insecurely. In this regard the desired methods systems and the like should be less susceptible to being replicated and or less susceptible to being intercepted. Additionally the desired methods systems and the like should be easier for the user customer to remember thereby lessening the likelihood that the authentication mechanism is forgotten.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods systems and computer program products are defined that provide for gaming console specific user authentication for gaming console based applications such as online financial institution service applications or the like. The user authentication methods and systems herein described implement user authentication data that is specific to the game console platform. For example in one embodiment of the present invention in which the game controller device includes an accelerometer for detecting movements in the controller the user authentication data may be defined by a specific pre determined motion provided to the controller. In other embodiments of the present invention a pre determined series of user inputs to a game controller input mechanism may define the user authentication data. The game console specific user authentication data may then be converted to a numeric value encrypted to provide a password optionally hashed and securely communicated to a network entity for authentication verification.

As such the gaming console specific user authentication mechanisms herein described are less likely to be intercepted by an attacker during the verification process and are less likely to be replicated by a would be attacker hacker. In addition the gaming console specific user authentication mechanism is generally easier to remember than conventional alpha numeric passwords and therefore the user is less likely to forget their passcode. In turn the user is less likely to store passcodes insecurely.

A method for user authentication defines an embodiment of the present invention. The method includes receiving at a gaming console a gaming console specific user authentication input. The gaming console specific user authentication is a pre determined motion to a motion sensing game controller. The method further includes converting the gaming console specific user authentication input to a numeric value and applying one of a private key encryption routine or a public key encryption routine to the numeric value to create a password. In addition the method includes communicating the password to a network entity and receiving verification of user authentication based on password verification at the network entity.

In alternate embodiments of the method receiving the gaming console specific user authentication input further includes receiving the gaming console specific user authentication input for authentication of a user of a gaming console based financial institution application.

In other alternate embodiments of the method converting the gaming console specific user authentication input to a numeric value further includes converting a plurality of dimensional vectors and a time vector associated with the pre determined motion to a numeric value.

In still further embodiments the method includes applying a hash algorithm to the password prior to communicating the password to the network entity.

Another method for user authentication defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving at a motion detecting device a user authentication input. The input comprises a user configured motion of the device. The method further includes converting at the motion detecting device the user authentication input to a numeric value and applying at the motion sensing device an encryption routine to the numeric value to create a password. The method further includes communicating from the motion detecting device the password to a network entity and receiving at the motion detecting device verification of user authorization based on password verification at the network entity.

In specific embodiments of the method receiving the user authentication input further includes receiving the user authentication input for authentication of a user of a financial institution application.

In other specific embodiments of the method converting the user authentication input to a numeric value further includes converting a plurality of dimensional vectors and a time vector associated with the user configured motion to a numeric value.

Moreover in additional specific embodiments of the method applying the encryption routine to the numeric value further comprises applying a private key encryption scheme or a public key encryption scheme to the numeric value to create the password. In still further embodiments the method includes applying a hash algorithm to the password prior to communicating the password to the network entity.

A system for authenticating a user defines third embodiments of the invention. The system includes a motion detecting device including a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The system further includes an application operable to be loaded into the memory of the motion detecting device and executed on the device. The application includes a user authentication routine configured to receive a user authentication input that comprises a user configured motion of the device convert the user authentication input to a numeric value apply an encryption routine to the numeric value to create a password communicate the password to a network entity and receive verification of user authorization based on password verification at the network entity.

In specific embodiments of the system the application is further defined as an online financial customer service application.

In other specific embodiments of the system the user authentication routine is further operable to convert the user authentication data to a numeric value apply an encryption routine to the numeric value to create a password communicate the password to the network entity and receive verification of user authorization based on password verification at the network entity. In such embodiments of the system the user authentication routine may be further operable to convert a plurality of dimensional vectors and a time vector associated with the user configured motion to the numeric value.

In still further specific embodiments of the system the user authentication routine is further operable to apply one of a private key encryption routine or public key encryption routine to the numeric value to create the password. Moreover in additional specific embodiments of the system the user authentication routine is further operable to apply a hash algorithm to the password prior to communicating the password to the network entity.

A computer program product defines fourth embodiments of the invention. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a motion detecting device to receive a user authentication input that comprises a user configured motion of the device. The medium further includes a second set of codes for causing the motion detecting device to convert the user authentication input to a numeric value and a third set of codes for causing the motion detecting device to apply an encryption routine to the numeric value to create a password. The medium additionally includes a fourth set of codes for causing the motion detecting device to communicate the password to a network entity and a fifth set of codes for causing the motion detecting device to receive verification of user authentication based on password verification at the network entity.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for a secure platform for financial transactions. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a game console device is implemented as the platform for conducting financial transactions. The game console device is characteristically defined as executing only signed code and therefore the financial institution service application that is executed on the gaming console device includes signed code and a corresponding digital certificate. In this regard the gaming console provides far greater security than a conventional platform such as a personal computer PC or the like which allows for both signed code and unsigned code to be executed on the device thereby compromising the security of the device and the financial transactions conducted on the device.

In addition to providing heightened security the gaming console platform affords the financial institution and or financial institution service providers the ability to configure an application specifically suited for the capabilities of the gaming platform. In this regard an enhanced user experience may be provided. For example the financial institution and or service provider may configure the application to utilize various input mechanisms such as game controllers or the like which have input functionality beyond a conventional mouse pointer type input mechanism.

In further embodiments of the present invention a user authentication method is herein described that relies on user inputs to gaming console specific input mechanisms to define the user s authentication passcode. In this regard the passcode that is implemented by the user is one other than a conventional alpha numeric password. Hence additional security is provided to the user authentication process by having an authentication passcode that is not easily intercepted or replicated. An additional benefit is foreseen in that the user authentication mechanisms herein disclosed are more apt to be remembered by the user.

In still further embodiments of the present invention secure voice chat sessions and text chat sessions used in conjunction with gaming console based financial institution services are herein described. The voice chat sessions and text sessions implement secure protocols such as Secure Socket Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS or the like to tunnel text or voice streams between the gaming console and the financial institution.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of a system for providing financial institution services via a gaming console device platform. The system includes a game console device and financial institution server that are in network communication. Examples of gaming console device include but are not limited to Playstation PlayStation Portable PSP manufactured by Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan Xbox manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. USA and Wii GameBoy and Nintendo DS manufactured by Nintendo Company Ltd. of Kyoto Japan. In the illustrated example of the game console device and the financial institution server are in network communication via the Internet although other public and or private intranets may also be implemented in accordance with other embodiments of the present invention.

The game console device includes secure computing platform having a processor and a memory . As previously noted the secure nature of computing platform dictates that the applications modules routines and the like that are executed on the gaming console include signed code. Signed code ensures the integrity of the code and allows the system to recognize updated versions of the code as the same program as the original. Thus once code is signed any change in the code that was not intended whether introduced accidently or by attackers otherwise referred to herein as hackers can be detected by the system. A code signature includes a unique identifier which can be used to identify the code or to determine to which groups or categories the code belongs a seal which is a collection of checksums or hashes of the various parts of the program and a digital signature which signs the seal to guarantee the integrity and includes information that can be used to determine who signed the code and whether the signature is valid.

Further the memory of secure computing platform includes financial institution service application . The financial institution service application is operable for establishing a secure connection with the financial institution server to deliver financial services to the user of the game console device . Financial services may include but are not limited to online banking bill pay services investment transaction services transfers between accounts account balance services and the like. In addition from the business perspective the game console device may be in communication with a digital cash drawer card UPC scanner or the like which are not depicted in and thus the gaming console may function as a point of sale device. The financial institution service application includes signed code and is specifically configured for the gaming console platform on which it is implemented. Thus financial institution service application includes a signed application certificate . The signed application certificate serves to establish identity by associating a public key to the application assign authority by establishing what actions the application may take based upon the certificate and secure confidential information. In general a digital certificate may include a public key a name an expiration date the name of the issuing authority a serial number and any relevant policies describing how the certificate may be used the digital signature of the certificate issuer and any other pertinent information.

The financial institution server also includes a secure computing platform having a processor and memory . Memory includes a financial institution transaction module operable for providing a secure connection to the game console device and delivering financial institution services to the gaming console device . As a secure server financial institution server includes a signed server certificate . The signed server certificate serves to establish identity by associating a public key to the server assign authority by establishing what actions the server may take based upon the certificate and secure confidential information such as encrypting the financial transactions session s symmetric key for data confidentiality.

In practice when the financial institution service application makes a connection to the financial institution server the financial institution service application sends a session identifier to the financial institution server and requests the server s signed server certificate . In response financial institution server sends the signed server certificate and a request for the signed application certificate . The financial institution service application responds by sending the signed application certificate along with where applicable a secret key to be used with the secret key encryption scheme and a verification of the signed application certification. In this regard the authentication that takes place is bi directional the financial institution server authenticates the financial institution service application and the game console device authenticates the financial institution transaction module and or financial institution server . More explicit description of the messaging scheme for providing bi directional authentication is provided for in and the discussion related thereto.

Referring to depicted is a more detailed block diagram of a gaming console device configured to provide financial institution services in accordance with present embodiments. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the present invention. The gaming console device may include any type of computerized communication device capable of providing a platform for the financial institution service application and establishing a secure network connection with the financial institution server on behalf of the financial institution service application . As such the gaming console device may be configured to only execute code that is signed.

The gaming console device includes secure computing platform that can transmit data across a wired and or wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Secure computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further secure computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or another processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as financial institution service application stored in the memory of the gaming console device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the gaming console device and operable to control the execution of applications on the gaming console device .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of gaming console device and the operability of the device on the wired or wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For example processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure digital signal processor Bluetooth system Bluetooth user interface security authentication graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity .

Secure computing platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the gaming console device as well as between the gaming console device and the network. In described embodiments the communications module enables the communication of all correspondence between gaming console device and other wired or wireless devices. Thus communications module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wired or wireless network communication connection.

As previously noted in regards to the memory of secure computing platform includes financial institution service application . The financial institution service application is operable for establishing a secure connection with the financial institution server to deliver financial services to the user of the gaming console device . The financial institution service application is configured with signed code and is specifically configured for the gaming console platform on which it is implemented. Thus financial institution service application includes a signed application certificate . Bi directional application and financial institution server authentication are conducted by exchanging the digital certificates between the application and the financial institution server. In addition to exchange of the digital certificates further authentication of the gaming console device is provided by communicating a game console identifier that is stored in memory and accessible by API for communication to the financial institution server via communications module . The game console identifier may be communicated as plaintext or in certain embodiments the game console identifier may be encrypted or otherwise encoded prior to communication to prevent the identifier from being intercepted during communication.

In addition the financial institution service application can deliver user interfaces for the financial institution service that are unique to the gaming platform. The user interfaces may provide for the user customer to conduct transactions and the like using input mechanisms that are unique to the gaming console platform. For example the game pad provides for multiple action buttons as opposed to the two buttons configured on a conventional mouse input device for a PC. In addition the user interface may rely on motion detection in the game controller for inputs to the user interface or other user inputs related to special purpose controllers or the like. In this regard the overall user experience with the financial institution service is enhanced by providing more interactivity and the like than would be provided by a conventional PC platform.

According to one optional embodiment of the present invention the memory may include a user authentication module that is operable to provide user authentication prior to granting the user authorization to access services such as financial institution services or the like. The user authentication module may include a gaming console specific user authentication routine that is operable to provide for user authentication based on pre determined user designated inputs to input mechanisms that are specific to gaming consoles.

For example certain game controllers include an accelerometer or other mechanisms for detecting motion in the game controller device. As such the user may designate a certain predetermined game controller motion passcode for purposes of authentication. The motion input corresponds to a plurality of vectors for example three dimensional vectors representing x y and z coordinates and a vector representing time. Once the motion input is received the vectors may be converted to a numeric value encrypted into a password and optionally hashed prior to communicating the password to a network entity for authentication purposes. Such motions would characteristically be harder to intercept or replicate and would be easier for the user to remember than conventional alpha numeric passwords.

In another example the input mechanism may be a conventional gamepad also referred to in the art as a joypad. The gamepad can have anywhere from two input buttons keypads up to a dozen or more combined with multiple omnidirectional analogue or digital control sticks. In such input devices the user may designate a predetermined controller input passcode which may be a series or pattern of multiple inputs to the various buttons control sticks and the like configured on the gamepad. As noted above such gamepad inputs would less likely be susceptible to eavesdropping replication or the like and would be easier for the user to remember.

In another example the input mechanism may be a special purpose game controller such as a dance pad or other mechanism that provides for inputs based on feet movement to designated areas on the pad. In such input mechanisms the user designated predetermined controller input passcode may include a series or pattern of multiple inputs to the various areas on the pad e.g. a dance step or routine . In another example the input mechanism may be any other special purpose input device such as a steering wheel or a light gun and the user designated predetermined controller input passcode may be a series or pattern of one or more inputs to the specific special purpose input device. According to one embodiment of the invention user authentication routine may be configured to store and accept a different user input action for each input mechanism such that the user can provide the predetermined input motion to the device depending upon which device or devices are currently connected to the gaming console device .

In another example such as when the gaming console device is a portable device the input mechanism may be a touch screen or the like and the user designated predetermined controller input passcode may be a series or pattern of various inputs to the touch screen display such as movement of objects on the display or a series pattern of taps to the display.

In accordance with further embodiments of the present invention the financial institution service application may include a voice chat module and or a text chat module which are operable to provide for bi directional voice streams and or text streams between the user of the financial institution service and a representative for the financial institution during an ongoing secure financial institution service.

Activation by the user of the voice chat module provides for a secured connection such as a SSL or TLS connection to be established between the gaming console device and a network entity server associated with the financial institution for the purpose of securely transporting the voice stream. Additionally upon activation the voice chat module accesses and gains control over the gaming device s microphone and speaker capabilities to provide input and output mechanisms for the voice stream.

Activation of the text chat module also provides for a secured connection such as a SSL or TLS connection to be established between the gaming console device and a network entity server associated with the financial institution for the purpose of securely transporting the text stream. Additionally upon activation the text chat module accesses and gains control over the gaming device s keypad and display capabilities to provide input and output mechanisms for the text stream.

In alternate embodiments the voice chat module and or the text chat module may be included within the memory of the game console device therefore obviating the need to include such within the financial institution service application . In such embodiments the financial institution service application may include modules routines or the like not shown in that allow the financial institution service application to interface with the voice chat and or text chat capabilities of the gaming console device .

Both the voice chat module and the text chat module include a secure connection set up routine and respectively. The secure connection set up routine provides for a secure connection to be established as the communication channel for the voice stream or text stream. Examples of secure connections include but are not limited to Secure Socket Layer SSL protocol and Transport Layer Security TLS protocol. The secure connection provides for the voice or text stream to be encrypted via the SSL connection TLS connection or the like prior to communication to the network entity associated with the financial institution to ensure that the data streams are not intercepted by a would be attacker. The flow diagrams of are discussed infra and provide further details in regards to those embodiments of the present invention related to voice chat and or text chat.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for providing financial institution services on a gaming console in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At Event a financial institution service application is loaded onto a game console device. The financial institution service application may be obtained from the financial institution in a tangible form such as Compact Disc CD or the like loaded onto the gaming console by inserting the CD in a portable media drive and saving the application in gaming console memory. Alternatively the financial institution application may be downloaded from a financial institution networked site such as a public website or the like and stored on gaming console memory. As previously mentioned the financial institution service application may be associated with any financial institution such as a commercial bank brokerage firm lending firm or the like. The financial institution service application provides for establishing a secured network connection to the associated financial institution for delivery of financial institution services. The financial institution services may include but are not limited to online banking point of sale services inter account transfers investment services account balance services loan services payment services and the like.

At Event the financial institution service application is launched on the gaming console. Launching of the financial institution service application may be based on user input to an input mechanism such as a game controller or the like or the financial institution service application may be configured to be launched at the boot up power up of the gaming console device .

At Event the financial institution service application establishes a secure connection with the financial institution using bi directional digital certificate exchange between the application and a financial institution server and game console identification. One example of messaging flow for bi directional digital certificate exchange is shown and described in relation to infra. In addition to digital certificate exchange for the purpose of verifying both the application at the financial institution server and the financial institution server at the application the gaming console device may be configured to communicate a hardware identifier to the financial institution server for the purpose of verifying the gaming console device at the financial institution server .

At Event once the secure network connection has been established the user is authenticated as a means of authorizing the user to use the financial institution services. User authentication provides for the user to provide authentication credentials generally in the form of a password or pass code which are securely validated by the financial institution. According to one embodiment of the present invention the user authentication credentials may be defined by gaming console specific user inputs such as a predetermined motion provided to a motion detecting game controller or other predetermined inputs provided to a joypad or any other special purpose game controller. The flow diagram of is discussed infra and provides further details in regards to those embodiments of the present invention related to game console specific user authentication. At Event based on the authentication process the user receives confirmation of the validation of the user authorization and is thereby permitted to conduct transactions access information and the like associated with the financial institution services.

At Event the user conducts financial transactions or otherwise accesses information provided by the financial institution service. In one example conducting financial transactions or accessing information may occur based on manual inputs provided by a user such as a consumer banking user or the like. In another example conducting financial transactions may be based on inputs from accessories devices applications which are in communication with the gaming console device . The accessories may include but are not limited to a card scanner a cash drawer a UPC scanner or the like. In this regard the business user can use the gaming console as a point of sale terminal enabling cash services via the gaming console device and or back end financial transactions conducted by the financial institution via the secure session established between the application and financial institution server s .

Turning the reader s attention to a messaging diagram is provided that specifies the messages exchanged during SSL or TLS protocol handshake according to an embodiment of the present invention. The SSL or TLS protocol handshake provides for bi directional exchange of digital certificates such that the financial institution application is able to verify the financial institution and the financial institution is able to verify the application.

At Event the financial institution service application initiates the secure connection by communicating a session identifier to the financial institution server the session identifier also serves as a digital certificate request. Additionally the session identifier message may include the highest SSL or TLS version number supported by the application and a preferential listing of supported cryptography and compression schemes.

At Event the server examines the session identifier and determines if the session identifier remains in the server s cache. If it is determined that the session identifier is in the cache the server will attempt to re establish a previous session with the application. If the session identifier is not recognized in the cache the server will continue the handshake process to establish the secure session. At Event assuming the secure session needs to be established a session identifier acknowledgement is sent to the financial institution service application. The acknowledgement repeats the session identifier optionally indicates the SSL TLS version to be used for this connection and specifies which encryption method and compression scheme to use for this session.

At Event the server communicates the server s signed digital certificate to the financial institution. The digital certificate may also include the server s public key. At optional Event the server communicates a server key which is a premaster secret in those instances in which the digital certificate Event does not include enough data for this purpose. The premaster secret is used in some but not all key exchange schemes and therefore may not be applicable.

At Event the server sends a digital certificate request to the financial institution service application for the purpose of authenticating the application at the server. At Event the server communicates a server handshake complete message indicating that the server s portion of the key exchange handshake is complete.

At Event in response to the application receiving the server handshake complete message the application communicates the application s signed public key certificate to the server. In addition at Event the server may communicate the client secret key that is to be used with the secret key cryptography scheme. At Event the application communicates the certificate verification message to the server that provides explicit verification of the application s certification.

The TLS protocol includes the change cipher spec protocol to indicate the changes in the encryption method. Thus at Event a change cipher spec message is communicated from the application to the server which is encrypted and compressed using the current as opposed to the new encryption and compression schemes. At Event the server returns in kind a change cipher spec message to notify the application that all following information will employ the newly negotiated cipher spec and keys. At Event a finished message is sent from the server to the application to confirm that the key exchange and authentication process were successful. At this point both the application and the server can exchange application data using the session encryption and compression schemes.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for authenticating a user of a game console based application using game console specific user inputs as the authentication mechanisms passcodes in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At Event game console specific user authentication inputs are inputted into the application that is executed on the game console. As previously noted the game console user authentication inputs may be any predetermined inputs associated with a gaming console input device such as a game controller.

In one example the game console specific authentication inputs may be a pattern or a series of user inputs applied to the input keys of a game pad. provides an illustration of a game pad having numerous input mechanisms such as input keys or buttons combined with multiple omnidirectional analogue or digital control sticks . In the illustrated example the action buttons A B C and D are depicted to the right and the directional keys E F G and H are depicted to the left. The center buttons J and K may provide for other functions. In the context of user authentication any series or pattern of inputs to the buttons or the control sticks may define a user s predetermined authentication mechanism passcode.

In another example the game console specific authentication inputs may be a motion or motions that a user applies to a game controller capable of detecting motion. provides an illustration of a game pad having numerous input mechanisms such as buttons A K and including an internal motion detector operable for detecting motion in the game pad . In one embodiment in which the game pad includes both input buttons and an internal motion detector the user authentication mechanism passcode may include a predetermined motion to the game controller and one or more inputs for example a pattern to the one or more buttons or other input mechanisms on the face of the game pad .

In other examples user inputs to special purpose input mechanisms may define the user s authentication mechanism passcode. For example foot inputs to a dance pad controller shooting inputs to a light gun controller or movements turns to a steering wheel controller may define the user s authentication mechanism. In another example in which the gaming console is configured with a touch screen display such as in instances in which the gaming console is a portable device inputs to the touch screen display may define a user s authentication mechanism passcode.

At Event the input data that defines the user s authentication mechanism is converted to a numeric value. In those embodiments in which the input data is a motion the input data may include multiple vectors such as space dimensional vectors defining the x y and z axis as well as a vector that defines a time dimension. Other vectors related to the motion detection input or any other authentication mechanism input are also possible. At Event an encryption routine is applied to the numeric value to create a password. The encryption routine may be a secret private key encryption routine such as a block cipher routine implementing an XOR function or a more detailed secret key encryption algorithm such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES 3DES DESX Advanced Encryption Standard AES CAST 128 CAST 256 International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Rivest Ciphers 1 6 RC1 RC 6 Blowfish Twofish Camellia MISTY1 Secure And Fast Encryption Routine SAFER KASUMI SEED Skipjack or any other suitable private key encryption routine. Additionally a public key encryption routine may be used to encrypt the numeric value in the authentication process. The public key encryption routine may be but is not limited to RSA Diffie Hellman Digital Signature Algorithm DSA ElGamel Elliptical Curve Crptography ECC Public Key Crytography Standards PKCS Cramer Shoup Key Exchange Algorithm KEA LUC or the like.

At optional Event the encrypted password may be hashed prior to communication to a network entity to provide for further security. The hash function may be applied to ensure that the password is not intercepted during communication and serves as a digital fingerprint to ensure that the password has not been altered by an intruder or virus.

At Event the password or hashed password is communicated to the network entity for user authentication and based on the results of the authentication process performed at the network entity at Event a user verification is received by the application authorizing the user to use the service.

Referring to a flow diagram is provided depicting a method for secure text chat sessions during delivery of financial institution services on a game console platform according to an embodiment of the present invention. At Event a financial institution service application is loaded onto a game console. The financial institution service application may be obtained from the financial institution in a tangible form such as Compact Disc CD or the like and loaded onto the gaming console or the financial institution application may be downloaded from a financial institution networked site such as a website or the like and stored on gaming console memory. At Event the financial institution service application is launched on the gaming console. Launching of the financial institution service application may be based on user input to an input mechanism such as a game controller or the like or the financial institution service application may be configured to be launched at the boot up power on of the gaming console device.

At Event the user of the financial institution service requests an online text chat session for the financial institution service. The request prompts at Event the establishment of a secure connection between the financial institution service application gaming console and a network entity such as a server or the like associated with the financial institution. In one embodiment of the present invention the secure connection may be an SSL protocol connection a TLS protocol connection or any other suitable secure network connection. In addition the request for the online text session prompts at Event the application to request access to and control of the keyboard and display associated with the gaming console for the purpose of inputting and outputting text messages.

At Event once the secure network connection has been established and the application gains control access of the keyboard and display text inputs are received by the user of the application. At Event the text streams are tunneled through the secure network connection to the network entity associated with the financial institution. According to one embodiment the text streams may be encrypted and or hashed prior to tunneling the text streams through the SSL connection. In response to the text stream being communicated to the financial institution network entity at Event the application may receive a text stream from the network entity associated with the financial institution through the established secure network connection. In those embodiments of the invention in which the received text stream is encrypted a decryption process may be employed once the text stream is received. Once received and optionally decrypted the text scream is displayed on the display associated with the gaming console.

At Event the text stream session is disconnected based on user input or user inactivity. The disconnection of the text session prompts the tear down of the secure network connection and the release of the keyboard and display.

Referring to a flow diagram is provided depicting a method for secure text chat sessions during delivery of financial institution services on a game console platform according to an embodiment of the present invention. At Event a financial institution service application is loaded onto a game console. The financial institution service application may be obtained from the financial institution in a tangible form such as Compact Disc CD or the like and loaded onto the gaming console or the financial institution application may be downloaded from a financial institution networked site such as a website or the like and stored on gaming console memory. At Event the financial institution service application is launched on the gaming console. Launching of the financial institution service application may be based on user input to an input mechanism such as a game controller or the like or the financial institution service application may be configured to be launched at the boot up power on of the gaming console device.

At Event the user of the financial institution service requests an online text chat session for the financial institution service. The request prompts at Event the establishment of a secure connection between the financial institution service application gaming console and a network entity such as a server or the like associated with the financial institution. In one embodiment of the present invention the secure connection may be an SSL protocol connection a TLS protocol connection or any other suitable secure network connection. In addition the request for the online text session prompts at Event the application to request access to and control of the microphone and speaker associated with the gaming console for the purpose of inputting and outputting text messages.

At Event once the secure network connection has been established and the application gains control access of the microphone and speaker voice inputs are received by the user of the application. At Event the voice streams are tunneled through the secure network connection to the network entity associated with the financial institution. According to one embodiment the voice streams may be encrypted and or hashed prior to tunneling the voice streams through the SSL connection. In response to the voice stream being communicated to the financial institution network entity at Event the application may receive a voice stream from the network entity associated with the financial institution through the established secure network connection. In those embodiments of the invention in which the received voice stream is encrypted a decryption process may be employed once the voice stream is received. Once received and optionally decrypted the voice stream is displayed on the display associated with the gaming console.

At Event the voice stream session is disconnected based on user input or user inactivity. The disconnection of the voice session prompts the tear down of the secure network connection and the release of the keyboard and display.

The CPU may be equipped with a level 1 cache and a level 2 cache to temporarily store data and hence reduce the number of memory access cycles thereby improving processing speed and throughput.

The CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

As previously noted in one suitable implementation the CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common circuit board module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to the memory controller via a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown in . RAM is configured as multiple DDR SDRAM Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM that is independently controlled by the memory controller via separate buses not shown in .

A 3D graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder via a digital video bus not shown in . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec 926 via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to the television or other display. In the illustrated implementation the video and audio processing components are mounted on the circuit board module .

Also implemented on the circuit board module are a USB host controller and a network interface . The USB host controller is coupled to the CPU and the memory controller via a bus e.g. a PCI bus and serves as host for the peripheral controllers A B. The network interface provides access to one or more networks e.g. Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wire or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

The game console device has a dual controller port subassembly and that supports two game controllers A and B. Alternate game console architectures may provide for more than one dual controller support subassembly. A front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of the power button the eject button other I O mechanisms as well as any LEDs Light Emitting Diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the game console. The subassemblies and are coupled to the circuit board module via one or more cable assemblies .

A system power supply module provides power to the components of the game console device . A cooling system cools the circuitry within the game console device .

A console user interface UI application is stored on the hard disk drive . When the game console is powered on various portions of the console UI application are loaded into RAM and or caches and executed on the CPU . The console UI application presents a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the game console device .

In accordance with present embodiments in which the game console device is a secure device that executes signed code only the game console device implements a cryptography engine to perform common cryptographic functions such as encryption decryption authentication digital signing hashing and the like. The cryptography engine may be implemented as part of the CPU or in software stored on the hard disk drive that executes on the CPU so that the CPU is configured to perform the requisite cryptographic functions.

The game console device may be operated as a stand alone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this stand alone mode the game console device allows one or more players to play games watch movies or listen to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface the game console device may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community and or be connected to other networked entities.

Thus present embodiments provide for methods systems and computer program products that provide for financial institution services to be delivered via a gaming console platform. The gaming console platform is characteristically limited to executing signed code and is therefore a much more secure device than a conventional PC. Additionally the gaming console platform allows for the financial institution service application to be tailored to the capabilities and functionality of the gaming console thereby providing the user with a heightened experience not afforded by convention platforms. Additional embodiments of the present invention provide for a user authentication method that implements gaming console specific user inputs as the authentication mechanism passcode. In this regard input devices that are specific to gaming consoles such as gamepads motion detecting game controllers and the like may be used to provide for user inputs that define the authentication mechanism passcode. Such authentication mechanisms are more difficult to replicate and or intercept than conventional alpha numeric passcodes and are more readily remembered by the user. Another embodiment of the present invention provides for text chat sessions and or voice chat sessions to be employed in conjunction with game console based financial institution services. The text chat and or voice chat sessions that are provided implement a secure network connection and provided for greater overall security than would be afforded text or voice chat sessions on a conventional platform.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

