---

title: Preserving formatting of content selection through snippets
abstract: An e-reader application preserves formatting of a selection through a snippet. The application determines a format of a portion of content in response to a user action selecting the portion. The formatted portion is stored in the snippet. The source code of the portion is extracted from the content and stored in the snippet to preserve its format. The snippet is displayed in a navigation pane using the format. The snippet is resized according to the defined format to fit available space in the navigation pane. The application is enabled to navigate to a location of the portion within the content in response to detecting another selection activating the snippet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223766&OS=09223766&RS=09223766
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09223766
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121121
---
Mobile computing has transformed media consumption across markets. Miniaturization across product generations has enabled more functionality to be accomplished by smaller devices. A modern smartphone has more computing capacity than a desktop computer a few years ago. Mature product processes have also enabled advances in technology to be integrated to automated production of mobile devices seamlessly. Extensive automation has led to inexpensive components. Inexpensive components have enabled manufacturing of inexpensive mobile devices providing functionality on the go.

Content selection and consumption solutions are limited endeavors in modern mobile solutions. A typical content selection in legacy solutions involves capturing text associated with the content. Text formatting usually is not carried over to application consuming the content. Some solutions to text format transportation are available to varied success. Complex text with style attributes are transportable to consuming applications if the consuming application supports the formats specified by the transport operation. However selection and transportation of complex content is still an area lacking in reproduction fidelity. Most complex content is transported as image clips. Reproduced images are quality restricted to limit resource and memory utilization. Reproduction rarely ever achieves the quality of original content. In addition most mobile solutions lack the ability to provide interaction features with the clip during transport to consuming application.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to preserving formatting of content selection through a snippet. According to embodiments an e reader application may detect a selection of a portion of content. The selection may be detected as a result of a user interaction with a user interface of the application displaying the content. The portion may be composed of multiple objects including text and or graphics. The portion and its format may be stored as a snippet. The snippet may be a container to retain the formatted content portion. In addition the snippet may be displayed in a navigation pane in its original format while fitting to available space in the navigation pane. In response to detecting another action activating the snippet the application may navigate to a location of the portion within the content. A page of the content containing the portion may be displayed if not in active view already.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above formatting of a selection may be preserved through a snippet. An application of an e reader device may store a portion of content and its format as a snippet in response to a user selection. A user interface element showing the snippet may be used to navigate to a location of the content in response to selection of the snippet displayed in a navigation pane.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present disclosure is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While the embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a computing device those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium is a computer readable memory device. The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for preserving formatting of a selection through a snippet. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single computing device and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. However a server may also be implemented as a virtual server software programs executed on one or more computing devices viewed as a server on the network. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

An e reader device such as a tablet may host an application providing content to a user. Such an application may be called an e reader application which may be a locally installed and executed application receiving content e.g. e books documents etc. through wired or wireless networks. The e reader application may also be a hosted service provided by one or more servers and accessed by a user through the e reader device e.g. tablet . Content may be any type of consumable data including but not exclusive to text audio video graphic etc. Content may also include media combinations presented in a standardized format e.g. a web page. 

A user may interact with the content through a variety of control devices. The tablet may be enabled to detect a pen a touch a mouse a keyboard an audio and a video based input. The tablet may also detect a combination input such as a gesture. The application may preserve formatting of a selected portion of the content. The format may be implemented using a standard including hyper text markup language HTML . The format may define size and location of the portion within the content . The format may also define size location and display attributes of components of the portion . In an example scenario the format may specify for highlighted text while emphasizing a graphic component using shading. In response the detecting the selection the portion and its format may be stored as a snippet . The snippet may be displayed in a navigation pane for quick access by a user. The displayed snippet may be activated by the user to navigate to a location of the portion in the content. An example may include displaying a page containing the portion after activation of the snippet while displaying another page.

Embodiments are not limited to implementation in a tablet . An application according to embodiment may enable a user to preserve a format of a selection through a snippet in other platforms. A user may be enabled to store a snippet in any device capable of displaying the content. A touch or gesture enabled device although suitable is not necessary. A user may be enabled to store a snippet using a standard mouse and keyboard interface.

An application of an e reader device may display content through a user interface . The user interface may display content according to a detected format. The content may be formatted using a standard such as HTML. The HTML formatting may be used to define display attributes of components within the content. In an example scenario an image may be resized based on a proportion of the display screen defined by HTML. In another example scenario text may be stylized based on font attributes defined by HTML.

A portion of the content may be stored in a snippet while preserving the portion s format in response to a user action. The user action may be a selection of the portion . The portion may be selected through any combination of a user action including touch or mouse keyboard based input. In an example scenario a user may select the portion through a touch and hold action. The user may touch a snippet control to create the snippet . A user is not limited to a touch based input to select the portion and create the snippet . Alternatively the user may select the portion using a mouse input and activate the snippet control to create the snippet .

The e reader application may create another snippet according to another user action selecting the portion . A snippet control may be displayed in response to the user selecting the portion . The application may create the snippet in response to a user activating the snippet control .

Format of the selected portion may be determined for storage in the snippet . The format may be analyzed to determine utilized standards including HTML extensible markup language XML and others. A source code of the portion may be extracted from the content to store the portion using the detected format. The source code may be embedded in a document containing the content. The application may initialize an application programming interface API capable of extracting source code in the detected format. The source code may be stored in the snippet as the formatted portion.

Additional controls may be displayed by a user interface of the application to manage snippets. A navigation control may be used to navigate to a page containing the portion associated with a selected snippet. A delete control may be used to delete a selected snippet.

The snippets and may be displayed in the navigation view while preserving the format of the portion associated with the snippets. The stored portion may be decoded using the detected format to determine size location and shape of components within the portion. The components may be detected to include textual image audio video and graphical objects. The components may be resized to fit available space in the navigation pane. The snippet may be displayed in the navigation pane using the resized components.

The application may enable a user to capture multiple portions from different locations in the content and store the portions as one snippet. In an example scenario a selection of another portion may be detected from a different location such as an adjacent column within the content. Upon a user action to create the snippet the application may store both portions in the snippet while preserving the formats of both portions. The snippet may be displayed in the navigation pane using resized portions separated by a divider such as a line.

The navigation pane may be used as a directory. The application may auto generate snippets for predetermined locations within the content. The user may be enabled to navigate to the locations by selecting a snippet. The application may also allow a user to alter the directory of snippets by adding a snippet as a custom reference to a location of another portion of the content. The application may also enable deletion of an existing snippet to remove a location reference from the directory.

The application may detect a user action selecting the snippet while displaying other content. The other content may be a page within the content that does not contain the portion stored by the snippet . Alternatively the other content may be a different document that may have the snippet inserted into a location of the document for annotation.

A user action selecting the snippet may apply a graphical scheme to the snippet . A selection may be reflected through a display scheme illustrating the selection. The display scheme may include encircling the snippet with a shape including a circle a rectangle a square a trapezoid etc.

In response to selecting the snippet while displaying content that does not contain the portion stored in the snippet the application may display a view pane . The view pane may display the portion formatted based on the stored format. The view pane may display the portion in an original size of the content associated with the portion. Alternatively the application may resize the portion to fit an available size of the view pane. The size of the view pane may be restricted according to available display size and or other e reader device settings.

Snippets from the content may be inserted to other content. The other content may include a separate document than the document containing the content. A snippet from the content may be inserted to the other content to annotate the other content with the portion stored in the snippet. The snippet may be automatically inserted to a related location in the other content. The related location may be automatically determined by matching the components in the portion stored in the snippet with components of the other content. Alternatively a user may be enabled to manually insert the snippet to a location of choice within the other content.

In response to a user action selecting the snippet displayed in the navigation pane the application may display a view pane displaying the portion stored in the snippet. The portion may be formatted according to the format stored in the snippet as discussed previously.

In addition the snippet may be displayed according to a scheme. A 3D scheme a shading scheme a color scheme a textual scheme a graphical scheme and others may be applied to differentiate the snippet from the content. The scheme may be applied in the navigation pane. Alternatively separate schemes may be applied to a selected snippet compared to other displayed schemes in the navigation pane. In an example scenario a selected snippet may be displayed using a 3D scheme distinguishing the selected snippet from adjacent snippets. Furthermore a display scheme may also be applied to the portion displayed in the view pane . The display scheme may differentiate the portion from content displayed underneath the view pane.

Likewise snippets may be shared in social networks professional networks blogs etc. Controls in an e reader application may enable storing and insertion of the snippet from the content into a networking site. The snippet may be inserted into a location in the networking site to annotate the networking site. The snippet may be published to the networking site using controls embedded in the navigation pane. The content hosting the portion may be displayed in response to a user action such as activation of a control to navigate to the content.

The example scenarios and schemas in are shown with specific components data types and configurations. Embodiments are not limited to systems according to these example configurations. Preserving formatting of a selection through a snippet in an e reader may be implemented in configurations employing fewer or additional components in applications and user interfaces. Furthermore the example schema and components shown in and their subcomponents may be implemented in a similar manner with other values using the principles described herein.

As discussed above an e reader application may detect a selection action to store a portion of the content in a snippet. The snippet may also store a format of the portion. The application may restore the formatting of the portion while displaying the snippet. Client devices may enable access to applications executed on remote server s e.g. one of servers as discussed previously. The server s may retrieve or store relevant data from to data store s directly or through database server .

Network s may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic topology. Network s may include secure networks such as an enterprise network an unsecure network such as a wireless open network or the Internet. Network s may also coordinate communication over other networks such as Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or cellular networks. Furthermore network s may include short range wireless networks such as Bluetooth or similar ones. Network s provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources and data distribution systems may be employed to preserve formatting of a selection through a snippet in an e reader. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

An e reader application may detect a selection of a portion of content. The snippet module may determine a format of the portion and store the portion and the format as a snippet. The application may navigate to a location of the portion within the content in response to detecting another selection activating the snippet displayed in a navigation pane. This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable storage media is a computer readable memory device. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of computing device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device and comparable input devices. Output device s such as a display speakers printer and other types of output devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media can include therein computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Example embodiments also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be co located with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

Process may begin with operation where the e reader application may detect a selection of a portion of content. A user action such as touch based input may select the portion. The application may determine a format of the portion at operation . The portion may be formatted using a standard such as HTML. The format may describe display attributes of the components of the portion. At operation the portion and the format may be stored as a snippet. The snippet may be anchored to a location associated with the portion. The snippet maybe displayed in a navigation pane using the format at operation . The source code contained in the snippet may be decoded using the format to determine display criteria for the components of the portion. Next the application may navigate to a location of the portion within the content in response to detecting another selection activating the snippet at operation . The snippet may be used as a control for navigation and for launching a view pane when displaying other content that does not contain the portion.

Some embodiments may be implemented in a computing device that includes a communication module a memory and a processor where the processor executes a method as described above or comparable ones in conjunction with instructions stored in the memory. Other embodiments may be implemented as a computer readable storage medium with instructions stored thereon for executing a method as described above or similar ones.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Preserving formatting of a selection through a snippet according to embodiments may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

