---

title: System and method for capturing and delivering video images
abstract: Disclosed herein is a system and method for providing, over a network, updated and accurate video segments of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. At least one camera forms a part of the system receiving a set of instructions to capture a video segment of a predetermined duration at predetermined time intervals. Users of the system request video segments from a selected camera, which is subsequently transmitted by the system, over a network, for viewing by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792563&OS=08792563&RS=08792563
owner: Solutions XYZ, LLC
number: 08792563
owner_city: Chula Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120703
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 507 086 filed Jul. 12 2011 the substance of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to a system and method for providing computer network users video segments captured by a plurality of distributed cameras. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a system and method for providing updated and accurate video segments of variable duration taken at varying time intervals of vehicular and pedestrian traffic at international border crossings and the like.

International border crossings to and from the United States and Canada and Mexico exceed 350 000 000 crossings per year. It is no surprise to those with family friends and work on both sides of an international border that delays can result in crossing times in excess of one hour for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Thus there is a need for access to accurate and up to date border crossing conditions that would assist in the decision making process of when and where to cross an international border.

There exist a number of options available for obtaining vehicular and pedestrian traffic conditions. Television and radio stations typically report major highway and interstate traffic conditions but in the case of international border crossings such reports usually occur only when there are excessive delays as a result of a reportable event. Likewise websites and computer applications typically provide still shots or animated depictions of traffic conditions with color gradations indicating an estimate of the then current traffic flow. The information provided by these methods does not inform the user of the actual flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic data which is essential to determining the actual congestion and speed at which the traffic is flowing.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 739 332 to Patton et al. is directed to a system and method for providing users live streaming video of traffic conditions from a plurality of cameras. The system and method employs image cache memories to reduce latency in providing the user requested video. Because this system and method is streaming live video the bandwidth server requirements and costs for maintaining such a system can be prohibitive. In addition streaming video is inherently problematic suffering from delayed starts poor video quality and long buffering interruptions. Streaming video systems must process incoming video every hour of every day and requires one extra bandwidth internet connection per shot per camera. Thus each camera is a separate process with its own Internet Service Provider ISP fees.

Alternatively commonly known surveillance video systems are widely available to provide live or recorded video images. These systems typically require video recording software that must record video 24 hours a day 7 days a week leading to potential disc problems at the remote server over time. Because the surveillance video system requires video recording software implementation of the system and method of the present disclosure would necessitate functionality with the recording software leading to lengthy processing times and increased resource requirements. A need therefore exists for a reliable and affordable system for providing users near real time video footage of current conditions.

Various exemplary embodiments as described herein address the desirable aspects lacking in the relevant art and provide in various exemplary systematic embodiments a system and method directed towards providing a user reliable video segments of current conditions.

In one aspect a system provides over a computer network a current image selected from at least one camera. The system includes at least one local remote server the at least one local remote server having at least one camera associated therewith and the at least one camera configured to capture a video segment of a predetermined duration at predetermined time intervals. The local remote server is configured to request the at least one camera to capture and send the video segment according to the predetermined duration at the predetermined time intervals to the local remote server.

In a further aspect the system includes a computer program product embodied in a tangible form comprising instructions executable by a processor forming a part of the local remote server which causes the processor to request the at least one camera to capture and send the video segment according to the predetermined duration at the predetermined time intervals to the local remote server and determine after sending the video segment to the local remote server whether additional requests for the at least one camera to capture and send additional video segments exist. If an additional request exists then the executable instructions cause the processor to again request the at least one camera to capture and send the video segment according to the predetermined duration at the predetermined time intervals to the local remote server. Upon sending the video segment to the domain server the executable instructions cause the processor to delete from all directories in the local remote server video and image files from the at least one camera.

In yet a further aspect the system includes a domain server in communication with the at least one local remote server. The domain server receives and stores coded and formatted video segments. In response to a request for the video segment the domain server transmits to a video display unit the coded and formatted video segments for viewing by a user.

In yet another aspect the system includes at least one device for connecting to the internet selected from at least one member of the group consisting of a cable modem DSL modem dial up modem and wireless router. In yet another embodiment of the invention a computer system and processor will be incorporated into the interior of a video audio recording or camera device to capture images audio or video segments in order to stream images audio and video segments to a computer server the internet one or more local remote servers domain servers or other memory storage devices for viewing or storage by users either in real time or at a later time.

It is contemplated that any method system or information described herein can be implemented with respect to any other method system or information described herein.

Unless otherwise defined all terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Methods and materials are described herein for use of the present invention other suitable methods and materials known in the art can also be used. The materials and methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control.

These and other embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying examples. It should be understood however that the following description while indicating various embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements can be made within the scope of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements.

Referring to illustrative of a prior art system a flowchart of a typical streaming video system is shown. The illustrative prior art system for streaming video requires one camera for each shot to be captured and each such camera requires its own high speed modem to connect to a streaming server. In this respect each camera is a separate process requiring processing activity of the incoming video stream 24 hours a day 7 days a week. Thus a significant amount of bandwidth is required to transmit streaming video from the camera to the user requesting the video. In turn this extra bandwidth requirement increases the monthly ISP charges.

A budgetary comparative analysis of the illustrative prior art system and the presently disclosed system highlights the significant advantages of the presently disclosed system over the prior art. For example in the presently disclosed system each camera is capable of capturing multiple shots. Thus in a representative non limiting example one camera in the presently disclosed system is capable of capturing 4 different shots in essence doing the job of 4 cameras in the illustrative prior art system. Taking this example one step further the representative monthly ISP charges for one camera in the presently disclosed system is approximately 40.00 per month. In the illustrative prior art example due to increased bandwidth requirements the representative monthly ISP charges for one camera is approximately 100.00 per month. Thus following the previous example of one camera in the presently disclosed system versus 4 cameras in the illustrative prior art system the monthly ISP charges are 40.00 and 400.00 respectively. In addition to the ISP base plan charge of 100.00 per month per camera the illustrative prior art system also requires monthly per camera charges for processing and streaming equaling approximately 500.00. Summarizing the foregoing for one camera in the presently disclosed system versus 4 cameras in the illustrative prior art system the total monthly costs are 40.00 and 2400.00 respectively. Absent in this calculation are one time costs for installation and domain server or site lease costs. Of course installation costs would be higher for the illustrative prior art system due to increased hardware and camera requirements. Domain server and site lease costs are approximately equivalent in each system.

Referring now to and B illustrative embodiments depicting a system for providing video segments of current traffic conditions over a network and a flowchart illustrating the system process is shown. The system comprises at least one camera at least one local remote server a computing system and a modem . The at least one camera will be for example a fixed mount megapixel camera. For example the at least one camera can be a day night internet protocol Axis 223M camera or the like. The at least one camera is in communication with at least one local remote server . Forming a part of the at least one local remote server is a computing system . The computing system will be a PC Mac or any embedded computing system such as a system on a chip. The computing system manages the capturing of the video segment by the at least one camera for a predetermined duration at predetermined time intervals.

The computing system sends a command to the at least one camera to execute a preprogrammed specific routine. The at least one camera can be triggered to execute the routine by an Application Programming Interface API command sent to the camera by Internet Protocol IP interface by the camera s native interface or by custom applications.

The at least one camera can be set to execute various commands by programming events and send the corresponding event ID to the camera. In one embodiment the camera is tasked to capture a ten second video segment every ten minutes. The duration and interval of the video segment will be for example between five seconds and sixty seconds every five minutes to thirty minutes preferably between five seconds and thirty seconds every five minutes to twenty minutes and particularly preferably between five seconds and fifteen seconds every ten minutes to fifteen minutes. The final programmed duration and interval will depend on the end use application. For example in monitoring border crossing traffic a ten second clip taken every ten minutes to fifteen minutes is most useful for showing traffic congestion and offers enough information on traffic flow for the user to make an informed decision on when and where to cross.

In one embodiment the at least one camera sends the ten second video segment by internal File Transfer Protocol FTP to the local remote server and or to a local storage hard drive not shown for storage in the correct directory in the recommended format determined by type of camera used in the system. By way of non limiting example the format may be a Motion JPEG format.

The computing system will then continue to send commands to the at least one camera forming a part of the system . The additional commands will be sent to any camera forming a part of the system to capture additional shots or to cameras configured with Pan Tilt and Zoom PTZ capabilities enabling the camera to retrieve an unlimited number of different video segments due to the ability to see an entire hemisphere by mechanically changing the lens location and zoom.

If no more requests are made of the cameras the video segment is subjected to initial processing . This initial processing will entail using an open source program or any appropriate compilation software to rename the video segment MJPEG in sequence based upon the requirements of the video compilation software used. Additionally this program will be used to crop large shots to produce several video segments from one stream. Each cropped shot them becomes a separate video segment. The open source program then sets a final output size which the video segment is forced into for a standard viewer size.

Once cropped numbered and sized the individual MJPEG s are assembled into a video stream using available open source programs or any other appropriate program . Additionally the selected program enables the overlay of a mask or logo and subsequently outputs the video file in the correct format using a selected CODEC with an added time code for identification at the domain server . For example the video format will be a Flash SWF MPEG 2 MPEG 4 H.263 H.264 and OGG Theora or other suitable format.

A connection is made to a remote domain server using a cable or DSL modem dial up modem or wireless internet connection. The processed video file is uploaded to the remote domain server by way of FTP . All image files are then deleted from all working directories for all cameras forming a part of the system .

At the domain server the video file is converted into suitable formats for playback on multiple display and computing devices including desktop and laptop computers mobile devices and Apple devices. By way of non limiting example the format will include for example Flash SWF MPEG 2 MPEG 4 H.263 H.264 and OGG Theora or other suitable format. The video file is place in the appropriate directory for access through a website . Upon request by a user of the website the domain server sends the most recent video for the location and camera selected by the user.

Referring now to an example of a remote box containing the system installed at a select location for providing video segments of current traffic conditions over a network is shown. In this embodiment one of the at least one camera will be designated as an on site security camera. The security camera not shown will be for example a motion activated camera configured to capture video of the remote box installation and alert personnel if tampering of the remote box occurs. Additionally installed with the remote box are tamper alerts which will be in the form of a strobe light and buzzer not shown . In the event of tampering with the remote box the strobe light and buzzer will be activated and an alert sent to the appropriate personnel.

The local remote server will be powered by 120 VAC and run through a substantial Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS which will be housed within the remote box or separately and vented naturally or cooled by fan. In the event the power supply to the remote box will fail the UPS is capable of supplying at least eight hours of power to the remote box . The local remote server as envisioned herein can likewise be powered by 220 VAC as well as other voltages as known in the art.

The local remote server is a networked server and connects to a network via a high speed cable or DSL modem . Additionally as a backup to the high speed modem the local remote server is capable of connection to a network via a dial up modem or through a cellular wireless connection .

In the preferred embodiment the system and method disclosed herein will be implemented as a combination of hardware and software. An example of a unit resulting from the combination is as depicted in . The local remote server includes a processor a memory coupled to the processor and at least a single database operatively stored in the memory. A database is operatively loaded into the memory and includes instructions executable by the processor to send commands to the at least one camera to capture video segments of a predetermined duration at predetermined time intervals. Additionally the instructions executable by the processor can send additional requests to the cameras for capturing additional shots such as cameras with PTZ capabilities. Finally the instructions executable by the processor causes the deletion of all image files from all working directories upon successful upload of the video file to the domain server .

The system and method disclosed herein is accessed and operated through the internet via a website accessible by a user through a standard internet browser. Referring to a generalized block diagram of an exemplary computer system is depicted. The computer system is illustrative of a local remote server and plurality of networked clients not shown .

The local remote server includes a communications infrastructure used to transfer data and memory addresses where data files are to be found and control signals among the various components and subsystems associated with the local remote server . As such the communications infrastructure provides the input output I O between and among the various components and subsystems associated with the local remote server .

A processor is provided to interpret and execute logical instructions stored in the memory . One skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more processors will be provided in various server implementations and or in multi core integrated processor packages.

The main memory is the primary general purpose storage area for instructions and data to be processed by the processor . The term memory is to be interpreted in its broadest sense and includes both main memory and secondary memory . A collective term of computer readable storage medium will be used to describe either or both the main memory and secondary memory as well.

Where applicable references to the term datastore should be interpreted as an alternative to the terms memory and computer readable storage medium. The memory includes the primary and secondary memory . A timing circuit is provided to coordinate programmatic activities within the computer in near real time. The timing circuit will be used as a watchdog timer clock or a counter arrangement and may be separately programmable.

The processor main memory and timing circuit are directly coupled to the communications infrastructure . A display interface will be provided to drive a display associated with the local remote server . The display interface is electrically coupled to the communications infrastructure and provides signals to the display for visually outputting both graphical displays and alphanumeric characters.

The display interface includes a dedicated graphics processor and memory not shown to support the displaying of graphics intensive media. The display will be of any type e.g. cathode ray tube gas plasma but in most circumstances will usually be a solid state device such as liquid crystal display LCD. A secondary memory subsystem is provided which houses retrievable data storage units such as a hard disk drive an optional removable storage drive an optional logical media storage drive and an optional optical media storage drive .

The term computer readable medium is another term for the tangible form of the computer program product comprising instructions executable by a processor. The computer readable medium includes but is not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks forming a part of secondary memory . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire fiber optics and acoustic or light wave such as those generated during radio frequency and infrared communications. Common forms of computer readable media to be used in practicing the invention include floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The removable storage drive will be a replaceable hard drive optical media storage drive or a solid state flash RAM device. The logical media storage drive will include a flash RAM device or an EEPROM encoded with instructions executable by the processor . The optical storage media storage drive includes the ability to read and write compact disk CD and digital video disk DVD media form factors.

A communications interface subsystem is provided which allows for standardized electrical connection of peripheral devices to the communications infrastructure including PSI2 serial parallel USB and Firewire connectivity ports.

For example a communications network transceiver and a user interface will be electrically coupled to the communications infrastructure via the communications interface . The transceiver facilitates the remote exchange of data and synchronizing signals between the local remote server and other devices in network communications with the local remote server . The transceiver is envisioned to be of a type normally associated with computer networks based on the various IEEE standards 802.x where x denotes the various present and evolving wireless computing standards for example IEEE 802.11 802.11a b g n WiMax IEEE 802.16 and WRANG IEEE 802.22.

Alternately digital cellular communications formats compatible with for example GSM 3G CDMA TDMA and evolving cellular communications standards. Both peer to peer P2P and client server arrangements are envisioned for implementation of the various exemplary embodiments.

The local remote server includes an operating system the necessary hardware and software drivers necessary to fully utilize the devices coupled to the communications infrastructure and at least an Internet browser. The operating system will include the various versions and derivations of Unix Microsoft Windows and Apple MAC 0s X. The Internet browser may be of any common type which is compatible with the operating system installed on the local remote server .

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details will be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

The inventions illustratively described herein can suitably be practiced in the absence of any element or elements limitation or limitations not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example the terms comprising including containing etc. shall be read expansively and without limitation. Additionally the terms and expressions employed herein have been used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the future shown and described or any portion thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features modification and variation of the inventions herein disclosed can be performed by those skilled in the art and that such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. The inventions have been described broadly and generically herein. Each of the narrower species and subgeneric groupings falling within the scope of the generic disclosure also form part of these inventions. This includes the generic description of each invention with a proviso or negative limitation removing any subject matter from the genus regardless of whether or not the excised materials specifically resided therein.

In addition where features or aspects of an invention are described in terms of the Markush group those schooled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group. It is also to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. The disclosures of all articles and references including patent publications are incorporated herein by reference.

