---

title: Network acquired behavioral fingerprint for authentication
abstract: A computationally-implemented method, for certain example embodiments, may include, but is not limited to: identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device; and transmitting, via the network connection, a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device, the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device. In addition to the foregoing, other example aspects are presented in the claims, drawings, and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08869241&OS=08869241&RS=08869241
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 08869241
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s . All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com sol og 2003 week11 patbene.htm. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

For certain example embodiments a computationally implemented method may include but is not limited to identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device and transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other example method aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of a system designer.

For certain example embodiments a computationally implemented system may include but is not limited to means for identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device and means for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other example system aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments a computationally implemented system may include but is not limited to circuitry for identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device and circuitry for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other example system aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments with at least one processor accessible medium bearing processor executable instructions the processor executable instructions may include but are not limited to one or more instructions for identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device and one or more instructions for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other example processor accessible medium aspects are included in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments a computer program product comprises an article of manufacture that may bear among other instructions one or more instructions for identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device and one or more instructions for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other example computer program product aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments a method may relate to maintaining a behavioral fingerprint using at least one server with the method including but not being limited to identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device wherein the identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device is performed via at least one of a machine an article of manufacture or a composition of matter and transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device wherein the transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device is performed via at least one of a machine an article of manufacture or a composition of matter.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to e.g. the drawings the claims and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Advances in computing technologies and related technologies e.g. visual display technology battery technology etc. resulted in the development of computing devices with tremendous processing power and relatively small form factors. Examples of such computing devices include for example laptops Netbooks tablet computers e.g. slate computers e readers smartphones entertainment appliances mobile device and so forth. Having a small form factor with tremendous processing power presents numerous opportunities for developing applications that previously required desktop computers or other stationary devices. One problem with the numerous applications available on a small form factor is that authentication becomes paramount. For example if an application enables a mobile phone or a smartphone or an electronic device such as a key fob to open doors to a home or car it may be important to determine that the user of the device phone key fob etc. is the true owner or otherwise an authorized user.

Certain example embodiments herein are directed to enabling authentication and or verification to be determined based at least partially on a behavioral fingerprint of the true owner or other authorized user of a device.

In accordance with various example embodiments computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture are provided that can determine a level of authentication of a first user of a computing device and in response to determining the level of authentication may automatically enable one or more actions as a function of the level of authentication. In various embodiments such computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture may be implemented at a computing device and or a computer server networked to a computing device.

Referring now to the figure illustrates a computing device that may be connected via a network interface to a computer server in an exemplary environment . Computing device is shown being operated by a first user . As will be further described herein the illustrated computing device and or computer server may employ the computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture in accordance with various embodiments. The computing device and computer server in various embodiments may be endowed with logic that is designed to determine a level of authentication of a user of the computing device and in response to such a determination may automatically enable functions of the computing device .

For certain example embodiments a first user may be a primary user such as an owner of a computing device or may be a person given authority to use the computing device by an owner. An authorized user of a computing device may comprise by way of example but not limitation a true owner manager information technology IT specialist controller purchaser lessee approved borrower primary user or a user authorized by a true owner manager IT specialist controller purchaser lessee approved borrower primary user of computing device . In certain example implementations a determination of an authorized user may be effectuated if or when a user first registers a profile an account etc. on a device e.g. after a purchase or a hard reset may be effectuated if or when one or more sign ins e.g. entry of a password PIN pattern a combination thereof etc. are performed by a user may be effectuated if or when one or more user ID secret information combinations e.g. entry of an account name email address individualized identification a combination thereof etc. along with a corresponding password PIN pattern a combination thereof etc. are entered by a user may be effectuated if or when a given user is identified as or indicated to comprise an authorized user by one who is already an authorized user a combination of such authorized user determinations and so forth. An authorized user may add a new authorized user by way of example only by providing a name or other identification of another authorized user along with his or her biometric information e.g. a photo a voice sample a fingerprint a combination thereof etc. or by providing a name or other identification of another authorized user along with temporary or permanent secret information such as a password a code a pattern a combination thereof and so forth. An authorized user such as a true owner or IT specialist may be empowered to remove someone from a list of new authorized user s . In certain example embodiments different authorized users may have different levels of access e.g. capabilities rights privileges a combination thereof etc. with respect to a given computing device . For certain example implementations one authorized user may comprise an administrator with full privileges and another authorized user may comprise a regular non administrative junior user with fewer privileges. Additionally or alternatively one authorized user may have full access rights and another authorized user may have restricted access rights that prevent access to particular device settings or adult content. Other approaches to providing different levels of authorization may also or instead be implemented. By way of example only an authorized user who is a true owner may add a new authorized user that is permitted to utilize existing applications but is prevented from adding new applications or making purchases above a predetermined dollar amount or beyond a total amount.

As discussed below for certain example embodiments a level of authentication associated with a first user whether owner or not may be determined at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint of the owner or other authorized user of computing device . More particularly a level of authentication associated with first user of computing device can be determined based at least partially on a behavioral fingerprint of the owner or other authorized user of computing device . The behavioral fingerprint of an owner or other authorized user of computing device can be configured to be network accessible by computing device via network to server s . A network may comprise one or more networks e.g. a wireless network a wired network an internet an intranet a public network a private network a packet switched network a circuit switched network an ad hoc network an infrastructure network a combination thereof etc. having one or more nodes e.g. a server a router an end user device a mobile phone a tablet computer a desktop computer an entertainment appliance a vehicle some combination thereof etc. a switch a base station any combination thereof etc. that transmit receive forward generate buffer store a combination thereof etc. one or more messages packets signals a combination thereof and so forth. Server s can be a cloud of connected network servers can be a web server can be a centralized or fixed processing device any combination thereof and so forth. A behavioral fingerprint of an owner authorized user of computing device can be configured to override or to at least be a contributing or impacting factor for a level of authentication associated with computing device . In certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint may be stored at least partially at a computing device may be stored at least partially at one or more servers may be stored at least partially at one or more other devices may be distributed across one or more devices or servers may be duplicated across one or more devices or servers any combination thereof and so forth. If a behavioral fingerprint is located distant from a device or server intending to access it remote access may be provided at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may be transferred or copied to a device or server intending to access it any combination thereof and so forth.

Although the computing device illustrated in is depicted as being a tablet computer in alternative embodiments the computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture in accordance with various embodiments may be embodied in other types of computer systems having other form factors including other types of portable computing devices such as for example mobile telephones laptops Netbooks mobile devices smartphones e readers portable game machines entertainment appliances a combination thereof and so forth. For example device s illustrate smartphones client computers and the like as possible computing devices. As illustrated the computing device can include a display such as a touchscreen on the front side of the computing device . Computing device can further include a keyboard or keypad as a touch input output keyboard as an attached keyboard as a physical keyboard as a touch screen virtual keyboard any combination thereof and so forth. As further depicted in the display displays an exemplary document and a tool bar or menu . As further depicted the computing device may also include a camera e.g. a webcam disposed on the front side of the computing device . In some embodiments additional cameras screens touch sensitive surfaces other input and or output implements combinations thereof etc. may be included on the front side and or backside of the computing device .

The first user can be an authorized user of computing device or a person who has no connection to the computing device . In an embodiment a level of authentication and or a behavioral fingerprint can be at least partially determinative of the accessibility of computing device . In an example embodiment computing device may determine a level of authentication of first user of a computing device . In an example embodiment computing device may use a level of authentication to enable or disable automatic functions of the computing device . For example computing device can be configured to automatically open doors to a home car or safe or automatically permit operation of another authorized user designated item depending on the level of authentication associated with the computing device at that time.

In accordance with an example embodiment a level of authentication determination may rely at least in part on a behavioral fingerprint of one or more authorized users of computing device . A behavioral fingerprint can be determined based on statistical calculations on social network collected data sensor provided data user input a combination of such data and so forth. Thus a level of authentication can be affected by a behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user of computing device which behavioral fingerprint may include social network collected data including data derived therefrom. The level of authentication can also be affected by various aspects at a time computing device is turned on such as aspects surrounding computing device and or aspects of the computing device itself e.g. physical location movements detected images combinations thereof etc. . For example when a computing device of is turned on by a first user the first user may input a password or pattern or other identifying input e.g. biometric information such as a fingerprint analysis facial recognition or the like. A level of authentication may recognize a user as an authorized user and then determine if a behavioral fingerprint is established for that authorized user. A behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user can be configured to work together to determine accessibility of computing device to first user . A level of authentication and a behavioral fingerprint can be directly correlated or they can be configured to enable a level of authentication to override a behavioral fingerprint or vice versa.

For example a manufacturer of computing device may be able to override a behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user of computing device via a level of authentication by entering a secret code such as a manufacturer s accessibility code or the like in order to perform work on computing device . In one or more example embodiments first user can be a network accessible user for which computing device is just one of many network accessible devices that network accessible user may use to access the internet a cloud server a mobile network a combination thereof and so forth. A network accessible user can be an owner and or operator of computing device and or other devices. For certain example embodiments at least a portion of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with at least one user e.g. a device owner an authorized user a first user a combination thereof etc. may be located at e.g. stored at computing device one or more devices one or more servers any combination thereof and so forth. According to an example embodiment a network accessible user can have a behavioral fingerprint that exists outside of computing device e.g. that can exist in a cloud computing system for which servers are connected or form at least a part. According to another example embodiment at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may be transferred from one device to another from a device to a server from a server to one or more devices any combination thereof and so forth. Devices can further have a presence in the cloud computing system to facilitate the embodiments described herein. For example each of devices can be a network accessible device to which a network accessible user may be connected. Thus a network accessible user may be a user of one or several devices simultaneously and or at different times. A network accessible user may also be a user of a public computing device for example if none of devices are currently available to network accessible user .

Referring now to an example of a computing device of illustrates a level of authentication module an access restricting module a behavioral fingerprint module an alert generating module a memory which may store one or more applications and or a library of behavioral fingerprints one or more processors e.g. microprocessors controllers etc. one or more sensors a user interface e.g. a display monitor that may include a touchscreen a keypad a mouse a microphone a speaker a movement detector etc. a network interface e.g. network interface card or NIC and so forth.

In various example embodiments a level of authentication module of may comprise at least one logic module that is designed to determine a level of authentication associated with a first user of a computing device . An access restricting module may comprise at least one logic module that is designed to restrict access to one or more items in response to a determination made by the level of authentication module . An alert generating module may comprise at least one logic module that is designed to generate an alert that causes the computing device to communicate a variance to the level of authentication module to restrict capabilities of the computing device or access to the one or more items. The computing device of can include any one or more of e.g. four logic modules e.g. the level of authentication module the access restricting module the behavioral fingerprint module or the alert generating module using circuitry including one or more components such as at least one application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Alternatively logic modules including a level of authentication module an access restricting module a behavioral fingerprint module or an alert generating module can provide the same or similar functionality as and correspond to level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module or alert generating module respectively. Logic modules such as level of authentication module behavioral fingerprint module access restricting module or alert generating module of the computing device of can be implemented by the one or more processors by e.g. executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware that may be stored in the memory . Instructions may comprise by way of example but not limitation a program a module an application or app e.g. that is native that runs in a browser that runs within a virtual machine a combination thereof etc. an operating system etc. or portion thereof operational data structures processor executable instructions code or any combination thereof and so forth. At least one medium e.g. memory may comprise by way of example but not limitation processor accessible or non transitory media that is or are capable of bearing instructions data files configuration settings a combination thereof and so forth.

Note that although illustrates certain logic modules e.g. the level of authentication module the access restricting module the behavioral fingerprint module and the alert generating module being implemented using circuitry components such as at least one ASIC logic modules or may be implemented using a combination of specifically designed circuitry such as at least one ASIC and one or more processors or other types of circuitry such as e.g. field programmable gate arrays FPGAs executing computer readable instructions . For example in some embodiments at least one of the logic modules may be implemented using specially designed circuitry e.g. at least one ASIC while a second logic module may be implemented using a processor or other types of programmable circuitry such as an FPGA executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware . A combination of software or firmware and circuitry may be implemented to realize certain ones of the example embodiments described herein for example one or more logic modules may be designed to use an efficient combination of software hardware firmware in order to expeditiously implement methods or systems within the scope of the present disclosure. For certain example embodiments logic may comprise hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry any combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of methods processes operations functionality technology or mechanisms etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Circuitry may comprise hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry any combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of methods processes operations functionality technology or mechanisms etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein circuitry comprises at least one physical or hardware component or aspect.

In various example embodiments memory of the computing device of may comprise one or more of a mass storage device read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM cache memory such as random access memory RAM flash memory synchronous random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM hierarchical memory other types of memory devices any combination thereof and so forth. In various example embodiments the one or more applications stored in memory may include by way of example but not limitation an operating system one or more productivity applications such as a word processing application or a spreadsheet application one or more communication applications such as an email or IM application one or more personal information manager applications e.g. Microsoft Outlook one or more social network applications such as Twitter and Facebook any combination thereof and so forth.

Turning now to a particular example implementation of the level of authentication module and of is shown. As illustrated the level of authentication module or may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative example implementations. For example in various implementations the level of authentication module may include a behavioral fingerprint interaction module which may further include an anomalous action detecting module or a social network confirmation module . Level of authentication module may further include a statistical level determination module a visual cue detecting module which may include a face detecting module an audio cue detecting module which may include a voice pattern detecting module a combination thereof and so forth. Level of authentication module may also include a geographic location determination or GPS module .

A behavioral fingerprint catalogue or a library of anomalous actions may be stored for example as part of behavioral fingerprint library that is stored in memory see of the computing device of . Therefore if anomalous actions that match with a behavioral fingerprint catalogue or a library of anomalous changes e.g. as stored in library of the memory have been detected then at least an inference may be made that the user of computing device is not authenticated or authorized that a first user is not an owner or an authorized user of computing device that a first user is attempting to perform some action e.g. access an application or functionality access data make a purchase a combination thereof etc. that is not authorized or that is restricted any combination thereof and so forth.

In certain example embodiments the computing device may include logic that is designed to determine data from one or a combination of sensors e.g. of that may be processed and analyzed. In example embodiments computing device may determine via one or more image capturing devices e.g. a webcam or digital camera one or more audio capturing devices e.g. microphones or images received by a computing device via one or more networked devices or social networks if the computing device is no longer under the control of first user which may cause a level of authentication determined in level of authentication module to alter. For example the computing device in some cases may employ one or more movement sensors to detect the actual movements of the computing device or one or more image capturing devices which may use a facial recognition system application to determine that a face associated with the first user is not a face associated with an owner or other authorized user s of computing device . Based on data provided by the movement sensors or the image capturing devices at least an inference may be made that the computing device should have an alteration to the level of authentication.

Alternatively or additionally in certain example embodiments the computing device may be endowed with a facial recognition system e.g. facial recognition software that when employed with one or more image capturing devices may be used to determine the presence or absence of a face associated with an owner or other authorized user s of computing device via a comparison to that of the first user . If a face associated with an authorized user of computing device does not match first user then a determination may be made to alter the level of authentication associated with first user . In addition to face recognition other logic can include using the field of view of image capturing device or one or more audio capturing devices or other sensor device s of the computing device to identify an authorized user of the computing device through other recognition processes such as fingerprint retina voice verification global positioning system GPS location e.g. in comparison to a known or expected location of an authorized user of computing device other personal identification attributes or factors any combination thereof and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more items that access may be restricted to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. may include by way of example but not limitation one or more electronic items that may have been open or running prior to a level of authentication change of the computing device electronic items that were accessible through the computing device e.g. electronic documents and files that were stored in the computing device electronic documents that were stored remotely but retrievable viewable on computing device a combination thereof etc. prior to an alteration of the level of authentication of the computing device any combination thereof and so forth.

In certain example embodiments statistical level determination module may be configured to apply statistical algorithms comparative analysis statistical probability functions combinations thereof etc. to determine a statistical level of authentication for computing device . In one embodiment statistical level determination module may apply a weighting function which determines a level of authentication based on received data from scanners or other devices and a behavioral fingerprint with each received data having a predetermined weight regarding relevance to authentication. Statistical level determination module may additionally or alternatively analyze anomalous actions to determine or infer a level of authentication. To further determine or at least infer that the computing device should have a low level of authentication statistical examination analysis of a detected anomalous action of the computing device may involve comparing detected anomalies of the computing device with catalogued anomalous actions or a library of anomalous actions which may be stored in the memory of the computing device or at a remote location that are identified as being actions associated with for example a transfer of computing device a dropping of computing device an action incompatible with the stored predicted future actions of an authorized user an alert received from a social network that an expected or previously possessory authorized user does not have possession of computing device any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments computing device may maintain in its memory see a behavioral fingerprint library that may include a catalogue or library of actions inputs movements received network data e.g. including anomalous data that have been previously identified as anomalous that may be received if for example a computing device is stolen or used by another user a social network query fails to return appropriate confirmatory data that confirms that an authorized user is in control of computing device any combination thereof and so forth. Thus if anomalous movements inputs actions etc. that have been detected match something in a library of anomalous observations e.g. indicating movements inputs actions etc. a determination or inference may be made that a level of authentication should be altered. The level of authentication can be lowered for example such that first user is determined to have a lowest level of authentication.

In certain example embodiments behavioral fingerprint interaction module may receive data from behavior fingerprint module or behavioral fingerprint library . Behavioral fingerprint interaction module can apply data relating to one or more behavioral fingerprints of authorized users to determine a level of authentication. More particularly level of authentication module may be configured to receive a behavioral fingerprint as a list set matrix etc. of activities warnings anomalous actions any combination thereof and so forth. Additional example details related to the level of authentication module as well as the above described sub modules of the level of authentication module will be provided below with respect to the operations and processes to be described herein.

Referring now to a particular example implementation of an access restricting module of is illustrated. Access restricting module of the computing device of can be configured to restrict access e.g. hiding or disguising existence of features or data denying viewing or editorial access to files or services converting to read only form barring any access to a feature or service combinations thereof etc. via the computing device to one or more items e.g. documents image audio or video files passwords applications or portions features thereof services that cost money designated content any combination thereof etc. or preventing one or more actions by computing device .

As illustrated the access restricting module may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative example implementations. For example in various implementations the access restricting module may include a partial access providing module a no access module a viewing access restricting module which may further include a visual hiding module that may further include a visual replacing module an audio access restricting module which may further include an audio hiding module that may further include an audio replacing module an editorial restricted format presenting module a functional restricting format presenting module an open item ascertaining module a document access restricting module which may further include a productivity document access restricting module a message access restricting module an image document access restricting module an audio document access restricting module a combination thereof etc. a password access restricting module any combination thereof and so forth. As further illustrated in the access restricting module in various example implementations may include an application access restriction module which may further include a productivity application access restriction module a communication application access restriction module a personal information manager application access restriction module a combination thereof etc. an affiliation ascertaining module any combination thereof and so forth. As further illustrated in in various example implementations the affiliation ascertaining module may include one or more sub modules including an identifier affiliation ascertaining module which may further include a name affiliation ascertaining module an image affiliation ascertaining module a voice pattern affiliation ascertaining module a combination thereof etc. an address ascertaining module a source ascertaining module a word phrase number affiliation ascertaining module any combination thereof and so forth.

An example of how access restricting module may operate includes determining if one or more productivity documents comprise word processing documents and restricting access to such items which may involve hiding or disguising representations of the documents in a directory e.g. omitting document names or subject headings in a directory or replacing the document names or subject headings in the directory with pseudo names or subject headings . Alternatively a non editable form of the documents may be presented in order to restrict access to such documents. If alternatively one or more items comprise one or more software applications restricting access to such items may involve denying use of one or more functionalities associated with the items e.g. applications . For example if the one or more items include a word processing application restricting access to such a word processing application may include disabling one or more editing functions of the application while allowing general access to the word processing application e.g. permitting viewing of files . For example if the one or more items include a social networking or communication application restricting access to such an application may include disabling one or more abilities to initiate outgoing communications e.g. send an email send a text or IM post to a wall send a tweet a combination thereof etc. while allowing one or more abilities to view or otherwise experience incoming communications e.g. read a received email hear a received voice mail read a text or IM read wall postings read a Twitter feed a combination thereof etc. .

One example way to monitor actions taken by first user with respect to computing device is to directly detect such actions using one or more sensors such as any of those shown in that are designed to directly detect measure activities by first user of computing device . Sensors can be integrated with computing device and may be used to detect an action taken with respect to the computing device as the computing device is being used by first user . For example a fingerprint detection sensor or a facial recognition sensor can provide fingerprint data or facial data that may be used to determine whether first user is an authorized user of computing device . Once first user is determined to be or is otherwise associated with an authorized user of computing device a behavioral fingerprint associated with the associated authorized user can be accessed. The behavioral fingerprint module can process data received by behavioral fingerprint library and provide behavioral fingerprint data to level of authentication module . In an example embodiment level of authentication module may receive behavioral fingerprint data from behavioral fingerprint library and determine an accessibility aspect of computing device based at least in part on the determined behavioral fingerprint.

For certain example embodiments referring now to a computer server of may include at least a portion of functionality that is similar analogous comparable etc. to that of computing device . As such illustrates a level of authentication module an access restricting module a behavioral fingerprint module an alert generating module a memory which may store one or more applications one or more computer readable instructions or a library of behavioral fingerprints one or more processors e.g. microprocessors controllers etc. or a network interface e.g. network interface card or NIC . Although not explicitly referenced above descriptions of level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module and alert generating module may respectively apply to level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module and alert generating module unless context dictates otherwise.

In various example embodiments logic modules level of authentication module behavioral fingerprint module access restricting module or alert generating module of the computer server of can be implemented by the one or more processors executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware that may be stored in memory .

Note that although illustrates logic modules e.g. level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module or alert generating module being implemented at least partially using processor based modules circuitry based components e.g. such as an ASIC may be used to implement one or more of them. For instance a combination of specifically designed circuitry such as at least one ASIC or other types of circuitry such as field programmable gate arrays or FPGAs and one or more processors executing computer readable instructions may be used to implement one or more logic modules. For example in some embodiments at least one logic module may be implemented using specially designed circuitry e.g. an ASIC and a second logic module may be implemented using a processor or other types of programmable circuitry such as an FPGA executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware . A combination of software or firmware and circuitry may be implemented to realize certain ones of the example embodiments described herein for example one or more logic modules may be designed to use an efficient combination of software hardware firmware in order to expeditiously implement methods or systems within the scope of the present disclosure.

In various example embodiments memory of a computer server of may comprise one or more of a mass storage device read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM cache memory such as random access memory RAM flash memory synchronous random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM distributed memory hierarchical memory storage area network memory other types of memory devices any combination thereof and so forth. In various example embodiments one or more applications stored in memory may include for example an operating system one or more productivity applications such as a word processing application or a spreadsheet application one or more communication applications any combination thereof and so forth.

Referring now to an example behavioral fingerprint library is shown with more particularity. Computing device or computer server may maintain in its memory see and a behavioral fingerprint library see also and which may comprise a catalog or library that identifies a plurality of actions by one or more users. Examples of user actions may include but are not limited to network interactions such as social network interactions which may include one or more alerts relating to one or more users that if detected as occurring may be considered to at least imply that computing device is being used by an authorized user. includes examples modules or functionalities that may be present at or performed by computing device or computer server . In the case of computer server the functionalities of the various example modules can be replicated for a plurality of computer devices or authorized users of one or more computer devices as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. For example computer server can be implemented as part of a computer farm such as may exist in a cloud computing setting and enable productivity applications or communications applications to be performed provided or otherwise realized via cloud computing technologies. As such functional or modular replications may be included within the scope of the present application.

As shown in for certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library may include at least one social network library at least one authorized user library at least one anomalous activity library at least one cryptographic library any combination thereof and so forth. Example aspects of libraries that may form at least a part of a behavioral fingerprint library are described below with reference to at least

For certain example embodiments a social network library can be configured to store interactions between authorized users and one or more other entities. For example one or more social networks may include Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Instagram Classmates combinations thereof and so forth. Social network library can be configured to store messages or other data relating to one or more social networks such that behavioral fingerprint module can determine if action should be taken based on the messages. For example an authorized user of computing device or another device via computer server or over network may post a message via a social network indicating that computing device is no longer under his her control. Computing device may automatically receive such a post over a network connection or from computer server via network interface and provide it to social network library which may create or prompt a lowered level of authentication for first user possibly before first user even attempts to use computing device . A higher level of authentication may be reestablished by an authorized user of computing device after return of possession of the computing device so that an authorized user may have full functionality of computing device or so as to restore a prior e.g. higher level of authentication or the like.

In certain example implementations a social network library can identify any messages with aspects indicative of being relevant to authentication. A social network library can be configured to identify key words such as stolen or lost and to pass on a warning notification to behavioral fingerprint module or level of authentication module for further processing. In one embodiment network library may apply at least one search algorithm to identify key word s to assist in determining behaviors that are authentication positive or authentication negative. For example stolen or lost may be deemed to be authentication negative key words. Conversely a current message from a current friend on Facebook in conjunction with a response using computing device may be deemed to be authentication positive. Moreover indications that an authorized user of computing device is interacting with previously verified or identified friends on Facebook or more generally with previously verified or identified known members of a social network may be deemed to be authentication positive.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of may include an authorized user library which may include a library of authorized users of computing device . Computing device computer server one or more accounts on computer server a combination thereof etc. can be associated with one or more authorized users. Authorized users can include by way of example but not limitation an owner or several owners e.g. co owners as well as users with varying degrees of permission for using computing device or other computer devices. Authorized user library can include profiles for each authorized user including one or more passwords. Behavioral fingerprint module or level of authentication module can be individually or jointly associated with one or more authorized users or associated with a single authorized user in accordance with system settings or configuration preferences. For example each authorized user can have a separate designated behavioral fingerprint or multiple authorized users may share at least one behavioral fingerprint. When first user is identified as one of a plurality of authorized users a behavioral fingerprint for that authorized user may be associated with first user and a corresponding level of authentication can be determined.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of may include an anomalous activity library . Anomalous activity library may include data indicating that an anomalous activity has taken place data that represents activity that has been previously identified as being deemed anomalous any combination thereof and so forth. In one embodiment an authorized user can store or log activities that the user has predetermined to be anomalous. For example an authorized user may provide a list of area codes for which the computing device when operated as a phone would consider anomalous. An area code list may include for instance all foreign country phone numbers specific area codes or the like that the authorized user would not normally call from computing device . An authorized user may further identify actions that would be deemed anomalous for that authorized user. Identified actions may include by way of example but not limitation device usage during designated times of day positioning carrying a device to locations e.g. as determined by a GPS that are indicated to be areas an authorized user considered anomalous application specific actions identified as anomalous a combination thereof and so forth. An example of application specific actions may include deletion of significant amounts of data logging into a social network as a user that is not an authorized user of computing device combinations thereof and so forth. In an example embodiment an anomalous activity library may log one or more activities that are received via a network and that are determined to be anomalous. For instance a social networked entity can post a message via a social network that is monitored by a computing device or a computer server that includes a warning or other indication of at least one unsafe condition associated with computing device . An anomalous activity library may be configured to log a warning so that a behavioral fingerprint module can determine whether to associate the warning with an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of may include a cryptographic library . A cryptographic library may include by way of example but not limitation data such as passwords public private key pair data other cryptographic keys such as the types used in block ciphers such as Triple DES or substitution permutation algorithms like AES any combination thereof and so forth. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art Triple DES data may be encrypted with a first key decrypted with a second key and then encrypted again with a third key resulting in e.g. 168 bit encryption. AES encryption can use variable key lengths. For example keys used in AES can have lengths of e.g. 128 192 or 256 bits to encrypt blocks with a length of e.g. 128 bits. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art with the benefit of the present application key lengths and cryptographic techniques can change over time as computing capabilities change and progress. As such the key lengths and cryptographic techniques described herein are exemplary only and not intended to be limiting in any way.

For an example implementation a cryptographic library can receive data from one or more social networks or other designated sources to create or reconstruct regenerate one or more cryptographic keys such as to create or reconstruct an encryption key a decryption key or a key pair. For example as part of an authorized user s behavioral fingerprint the authorized user may assign parts of a cryptographic key or one or more components derived therefrom such as an asymmetric or a symmetric key to one or more members e.g. friends of a social network. In the current state of the art an asymmetric key may include a public key e.g. a public encryption key that does not need to be kept secret or a private key e.g. a private decryption key that is generally kept secret and a symmetric key may include a secret key that is typically protected by reducing if not minimizing its exposure.

For purposes of the present application in example embodiments presented herein the terms asymmetric key symmetric key encryption key decryption key public key private key etc. are intended to contemplate and or encompass possible changes in cryptographic algorithms for which different types of cryptographic keys may be involved to provide protection. Furthermore example embodiments herein contemplate the re emergence and or generation of cryptographic systems wherein cryptographic keys may be made public and the specific cryptographic algorithms used to generate or apply cryptographic keys may instead be kept secret. For example in an attempt to thwart piracy some computer gaming software systems now execute certain security code s on a remote server instead of the local device. In this case the data may be known but the code implementing the algorithm may be kept secret. The use of the terms cryptographic asymmetric symmetric public private etc. should not be interpreted as being restricted to current forms of public private key pair cryptography or to other current forms of cryptography but rather to more general cases of establishing a means of secure communication with some aspect being kept secret. For example key based cryptography may be e.g. symmetrical or asymmetrical with some aspect being known and or some aspect being unknown.

In certain example embodiments if an anomalous event occurs which causes an authorized user s behavioral fingerprint to be compromised an authorized user can reestablish a behavioral fingerprint by notifying each designated social network member to send a portion of a cryptographic key or a component that is derived therefrom so that if the key is reconstructed the behavioral fingerprint may be rebuilt.

For certain example embodiments with reference to a behavioral fingerprint module is shown in more detail. Behavioral fingerprint module may receive data from behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of and . Behavioral fingerprint module is shown by way of example but not limitation including at least one initialization module at least one fingerprint build degradation module or at least one fingerprint generation module .

For certain example embodiments an initialization module may be configured to determine an initial behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user. An initial behavioral fingerprint may be based at least partially for example on data entered by an authorized user data obtained from a behavioral fingerprint library data obtained from sensor s data received from another location e.g. a computing device receiving behavioral fingerprint data from a server a server receiving behavioral fingerprint data from a computing device etc. any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments a fingerprint build degradation module may be configured to determine if an initial behavioral fingerprint should be altered due to data obtained from a behavioral fingerprint library date obtained from sensor s data received from another location any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments a fingerprint generation module may be configured to determine a current behavioral fingerprint for a first user that is determined to be an authorized user attempting to operate computing device . A fingerprint generation module may be configured to determine a behavioral fingerprint for an established authorized user based on network data received while computing device is coupled to a network connection. In a case in which a fingerprint generation module exists in a cloud computing setting or on a computer server a fingerprint generation module may be configured to determine a network based behavioral fingerprint for a plurality of users when logging into a network a cloud computing system a computer server any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint can be determined before a first user handles a computing device . In some example embodiments a manufacturer can set a behavioral fingerprint or a level of authentication based e.g. at least partially on information received from a first user when ordering a computing device . For example a manufacture may preconfigure one or more user names passwords combinations thereof etc. prior to shipping or selling a computing device . At least in an environment that includes at least one computer server a behavioral fingerprint can be transferred from another device such as one or more of devices to a computing device . Whether a level of authentication or a behavioral fingerprint controls or otherwise affects the accessibility and actions available to a first user may depend on system requirements which may be adjustable. For example a behavioral fingerprint may indicate that computing device has been stolen and in such a case a behavioral fingerprint library may be configured to notify a level of authentication module of exigent circumstances indicating that a reduced access to computing device is advisable. Thus by way of example but not limitation a computer server may have access to a behavioral fingerprint library or a computing device may have access to a behavioral fingerprint library and at least one of them may notify a level of authentication module or of exigent circumstances.

Additionally or alternatively in example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint module may be configured to reconstruct some type of cryptographic key such as a private key of an asymmetric key pair or a Triple DES or AES type symmetric key after an anomalous event. A behavioral fingerprint module may be configured to notify a level of authentication module that an authorized user should have a level of authentication that allows access.

In example embodiments behavioral fingerprint module can receive data related to various types of movements actions inputs combinations thereof etc. that are related to a computing device . For example an initial behavioral fingerprint generated by a behavioral fingerprint module may be configured to communicate to a level of authentication module one or more predetermined or determinable inputs to computing device or computer server to provide access.

Other examples of movements actions inputs combinations thereof etc. that may be tracked for purposes of determining a behavioral fingerprint may include by way of example but not limitation individually or in any combination those detected or tracked using one or more sensors that may be included with or accessible to a computing device as illustrated in . In various example embodiments one or more movement sensors GPS geographical location sensors a combination thereof etc. may directly detect movements or one or more of other types of sensors e.g. image capturing devices audio capturing devices a combination thereof etc. may be able to indirectly detect movements e.g. as sensed images sound a combination thereof etc. change . One or more additional or predetermined actions may be employed to confirm other actions taken with respect to a computing device as will be further described herein. Other type s of sensor may relate to how a person uses an input device such as a physical or virtual keyboard or keypad or a touch screen or a voice input. For example such sensor s may determine a particular way in which a first user types e.g. in terms of timing between presses duration of presses locations of finger contacts combinations thereof etc. on a keyboard of a computing device or uses pressure on keys a touch sensitive screen or another input apparatus of a computing device . For example a first user may repetitively use particular keys with a particular pressure or the like. At least one key usage pattern may be employed in a behavioral fingerprint module to build on a behavioral fingerprint with a fingerprint build degradation module for example.

For certain example embodiments a type or types of access to be restricted in response to determining that a computing device or a computer server has altered a level of authentication for first user may depend on one or more factors including e.g. what types of actions are requested. For example if the one or more items to which access is being at least partially restricted comprise one or more software applications herein applications then a type of access restriction may include restriction to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more functionalities of the one or more applications. Additionally or alternatively access restriction or disabling of one or more applications may entail having access to the one or more applications being for instance completely blocked or hidden. In contrast if the one or more items to which access is being at least partially restricted comprise one or more electronic documents e.g. productivity documents image audio or video files a combination thereof etc. then a type of access restriction that may be applied to such items may relate to one or more editorial access restrictions e.g. restrictions against modification deletion addition a combination thereof etc. of the items as a function of the level of authentication. Additionally or alternatively automatic actions or tasks may be restricted or disabled as a function of a lowered level of authentication or automatic actions or tasks may be enhanced or enabled as a function of a raised level of authentication.

In certain example implementations restricting access to one or more items may include restricting viewing access to the one or more items or in other cases it may include restricting audio access to the one or more items. In example implementations restricting access to one or more items or one or more actions may include a complete restriction to access of the one or more items or the one or more actions or restricting access to one or more items or one or more actions may include a partial restriction to access of the one or more items or the one or more actions. A more detailed description related to various example types of access restrictions that may be applied to one or more items or one or more actions is provided below with respect to operations and processes described herein.

In certain example embodiments a computing device in response to restricting access to one or more items or preventing one or more automatic actions may be configured to generate an alert that indicates that the computing device has been adjusted to restrict access to the one or more items or disable the one or more automatic actions. In certain example implementations an alert can be transmitted from received at exchanged between a combination thereof etc. computer server or computing device depending on a source of the alert and an exigency of the alert.

A more detailed discussion related to examples of a computing device of is provided with respect to the processes and operations described herein below. illustrates an example operational flow representing example operations for among other things restricting access via a computing device to one or more items e.g. software applications electronic documents including productivity documents audio video or image files electronic messages including emails passwords combinations thereof etc. . In and in the following figures that include various examples of operational flows discussions and explanations are provided with respect to an exemplary environment described above and as illustrated in or with respect to other examples e.g. as provided in or contexts. However it should be understood that the operational flows may be executed in a number of other environments and contexts or in modified versions of or or or . Also although various operational flows are presented in particular sequence s as illustrated it should be understood that example operations may be performed in other orders that differ from those which are illustrated or may be performed fully or partially concurrently.

Further in and in figures that follow thereafter various example operations may be depicted in a box within a box manner. Such depictions may indicate that an operation illustrated in an internal box may comprise an optional example embodiment of the operation s illustrated in one or more external boxes. However it should be understood that internal box operations may be viewed as independent operations separate from any associated external boxes and may be performed in any sequence with respect to other illustrated operations or may be performed fully or partially concurrently. Still further those operations illustrated in as well as other operations described herein may be performed by at least one of a machine an article of manufacture a composition of matter or a combination thereof etc. unless indicated otherwise.

For certain example embodiments after a start operation operational flow of may move to an example association operation for determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device. For instance and as an non limiting illustration a level of authentication module of a computing device of may determine that a computing device used by a first user e.g. an unknown user having relatively inferior access rights or an authorized user of a computing device having relatively superior access rights has turned on logged onto e.g. entered a user identification and password into starting using a combination thereof etc. computing device . Note that in certain example implementations a first user may use the computing device by logging onto the computing device or by employing the computing device to access one or more applications or content that may be accessible through the computing device . In addition to the association operation operational flow may also include a level of authentication operation for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint as further illustrated in . For instance and as a non limiting illustration level of authentication module may determine a level of authentication for first user . A level of authentication can be configured to restrict access to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more items or actions related to a computing device as a function of the level of authentication assigned to first user . If first user is identified as an authorized user level of authentication module can be configured to take into account a behavioral fingerprint associated with that authorized user. By way of example only a computing device that identifies a first user as an authorized user may incorporate actions of the first user with the computing device into a behavioral fingerprint that is generated built degraded or modified e.g. at least partially by behavioral fingerprint module . As another example a computing device may identify a first user as being an authorized user or as not being an authorized user or as being an authorized user with partial access rights etc. by comparing current sensed action s of the first user to an existing behavioral fingerprint e.g. at least partially by a level of authentication module using for instance a statistical mechanism that reflects a probabilistic likelihood that one or more current actions by a first user are being performed or otherwise effectuated by a user e.g. an authorized user that is associated with an existing behavioral fingerprint.

In addition to level of authentication operation operational flow as illustrated includes operation for determining via the computing device that the first user has made a request for performance of a task. For instance as a non limiting illustration a user interface of a computing device may receive an input from first user to access an application to access a document or file to pay for something using computing device to open a device using computing device to perform an action within an application e.g. change a file make an outgoing communication read a new incoming communication may a purchase a combination thereof etc. to install an application to make a phone call any combination thereof and so forth. Operation as illustrated may be followed by operation for performing the task automatically without interference by the first user as a function of the level of authentication of the first user. For instance as a non limiting illustration a level of authentication module of a computing device of e.g. of may determine automatically without interference by a first user e.g. without prompting of first user without requiring first user to enter authentication related information such as a password a manual input pattern a biometric input pattern combinations thereof etc. without asking first user for additional input such as confirmation a combination thereof etc. that first user is an authorized user and may perform a requested task e.g. may activate one of applications may access stored or streamable downloadable content may permit a purchase may make an outgoing combination may install an application a combination thereof etc. automatically based at least partially on a level of authentication associated with or assigned to the first user .

As will be further described herein a level of authentication operation of may be executed in a variety of different ways in various alternative implementations. or for example illustrate at least some of the alternative ways that operation of may be executed in various alternative example implementations. For example in various implementations operation of may include an operation for determining the behavioral fingerprint via establishing a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user of the computing device as depicted in . For instance a behavioral fingerprint module may determine a behavioral fingerprint of first user by establishing that first user is an authorized user e.g. a user that has previously authenticated herself or himself a user that was previously determined to be authentic a combination thereof etc. of computing device or by generating a behavioral fingerprint via fingerprint build degradation module or via fingerprint generation module . In certain example implementations authentication may be accomplished when a user first registers a profile account etc. on a device e.g. after a purchase or a hard reset authentication may be accomplished when if one or more sign ins e.g. entry of a password PIN pattern a combination thereof etc. are performed by a user authentication may be accomplished when if one or more user ID secret information combinations e.g. entry of an account name email address individualized identification a combination thereof etc. along with a corresponding password PIN pattern a combination thereof etc. are entered by a user authentication may be accomplished if a device is used as part of a transaction that involves additional e.g. non virtual multi level a combination thereof etc. authentication protocols including but not limited to presenting a physical form of identification e.g. a government issued photo ID copies of bills or financial statements a combination thereof etc. entering multiple user ID secret information combinations a combination thereof etc. some combination of such authentications and so forth. In certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint can include or be developed using statistical calculations that are based on prior actions to predict future actions of an authorized user. For instance sensed actions may be correlated to frequency of occurrence e.g. number of times per day or per hour locations of occurrence e.g. geographical or network locations times of occurrence e.g. between 8 and 9 am each morning combinations thereof etc. different sensed actions that repeatedly occur together spatially or temporally may be cataloged e.g. an authorized user buys coffee at a known location consumes news from two known web sites and then drives his her car away from the known location sensed actions that have a particular characteristic e.g. a device is pressed with a known force when typed or swiped or held at a known angle when in use may be recorded combinations thereof and so forth. Statistical analysis of such correlations cataloged data recorded characteristics etc. may produce probabilistic likelihoods that a given action is to occur in the future at a particular frequency at particular locations at particular times in conjunction with other actions in a particular manner or way a combination thereof and so forth.

As further illustrated in in some example implementations a level of authentication operation may additionally or alternatively include an operation for sensing one or more actions of an authorized user. For instance sensors or a level of authentication module of a computing device e.g. of may determine that first user is an authorized user or may process sensed data for forming or updating a behavioral fingerprint based at least in part on data provided by one or more sensors e.g. a satellite positioning system SPS or other geographical location providing unit a microphone a camera a touch sensor a gyroscope an accelerometer an inertial measurement unit IMU a software sensor that detects electronic usage e.g. websites visited content presented games played people contacted a combination thereof etc. combinations thereof etc. .

Data from various types of sensors may be used in order to determine a level of authentication of a computing device . For example and as further illustrated in an operation may be followed by an operation for applying a statistical value e.g. at least one datum relating to one or more occurrences of at least one action to the sensed one or more actions of the authorized user to establish a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user. For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may apply a statistical level determination module e.g. to apply a statistical value with a probabilistic approach such as a likelihood function or Bayesian analysis to apply a statistical value with a stochastic mechanism such as a Gaussian function normalization or a correlation function to apply a statistical value with a histogram or other data conglomerating or data organizing tool any combination thereof etc. to actions taken by an authorized user having a behavioral fingerprint of a behavioral fingerprint library .

In some example implementations operation may include an operation for storing the sensed one or more actions of the authorized user as further depicted in . For instance memory which may include library of behavioral fingerprints of a computing device of may store an indication of a reference to a summary of a description of etc. one or more actions sensed by sensors or actions over a network such as social network interactions. Additionally or alternatively a computing device may store one or more sensed actions remotely such as at another device at a server a combination thereof and so forth.

In the same or different example implementations operation may include an operation for detecting the one or more actions of the authorized user wherein the one or more actions of the authorized user include logging into one or more social networks. For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may determine that first user is operating computing device as an authorized user and a communication application comprises or is running a social network application. Data that reflects interactions with a social network application e.g. blogs read people contacted pictures viewed videos played comments made e.g. writing on a wall sending a personal message to a particular person or particular people sending a public message etc. comments responded to content forwarded content approved e.g. liked plus oned re tweeted etc. people followed combinations thereof etc. may be stored in behavioral fingerprint library .

In the same or alternative example implementations operation may include an operation for detecting one or more keystrokes on the computing device to determine a pattern of use associated with the authorized user. For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may detect via movement sensors e.g. including touch or pressure sensors one or more keystrokes on computing device to determine a pattern of use e.g. force applied generally or to particular keys a speed of key presses a cadence of key presses a rhythm of key presses a group or number of keys that are often pressed in succession more quickly than an overall typing speed a location of finger contact on virtual keyboards a combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for detecting one or more manners for swiping input on the computing device to determine a pattern of use associated with the authorized user as depicted in . For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may detect via movement sensors e.g. including touch or pressure sensors manners of swiping an input on computing device to determine a pattern of use e.g. swipes may exhibit a common length or particular lengths that vary based on context swipes may exhibit a typical speed of finger movement swipes may exhibit a frequent direction or angle of movement swipes may exhibit a typical location on a screen with respect to a top middle or bottom of a relevant targeted area such as a whole displayed page of a multi page document or with respect to a precision of a visually guided swipe zone such as to unlock a screen swipes may exhibit a recurring usage pattern in lieu of other device manipulation options such as swiping in lieu of pressing a particular menu item or defined touch sensitive zone to turn a page any combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for detecting one or more contacts frequently interacted with by the authorized user on the computing device to determine an interaction pattern associated with the authorized user as depicted in . For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may detect via social network library an interaction pattern e.g. an identity of one or more contacts interacted with a particular program or social network used to interact with one or more contacts a length of time each of one or more contacts is interacted with an order of interaction between or among one or more contacts whether interactions are to send communications to or receive communications from one or more contacts whether multiples contacts are simultaneously interacted with whether communications are commingled between or among one or more contacts e.g. individual interactions or group interactions whether a same one or more contacts are interacted with across multiple social networks what type s of communications e.g. phone call email text instant message posting wall writing tweeting pinning a combination thereof etc. are used with particular contacts recurrences thereof any combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation which provides for storing at least one image of the authorized user for comparison to a detected image of the first user that is obtainable via a camera accessible by the computing device. For instance a computing device may use a behavioral fingerprint library or an authorized user library to store at least one image of an authorized user. A level of authentication module or a behavioral fingerprint module may compare e.g. using facial recognition analysis a stored image of an authorized user with an image of first user that is obtained via a camera e.g. one or more sensors such as an image capturing device or a camera a camera that is coupled to a computing device by wire a camera that is coupled to a computing device wirelessly a camera that is owned or controlled by the first user a camera that is owned or controlled by another entity such as a friend or family member a business associate a store engaging in a transaction with computing device or first user a camera associated with a cash register a camera associated with a security system any combination thereof etc. accessible to computing device . A comparison of a stored image to a current image may reveal that first user is statistically likely to be an authorized user or statistically unlikely to be an authorized user.

Referring to operation of in certain example implementations an operation can include operation for altering the level of authentication of the first user as a function of the statistical predictability of the one or more future actions of the authorized user. For instance a computing device may alter e.g. raise or lower a general or specific level of authentication of a first user using a level of authentication module as a function of a statistical probability which may be determined via a statistical level determination module with regard to one or more potential future actions of an authorized user. For example sensed current actions of a first user may be considered with reference to a probabilistic likelihood of future actions by an authorized user with the probabilistic likelihood derived from a statistical predictability of potential future actions. By way of example but not limitation if sensed current action s match with likely future action s a level of authentication may be maintained or raised. If on the other hand sensed current action s fail to match with likely future action s a level of authentication may be maintained or lowered. A probabilistic strength of a likelihood of future actions may be considered when determining if action s match or when determining a resulting effect on a level of authentication.

In the same or different example implementations operation may include an operation for lowering the level of authentication of the first user if one or more actions of the first user include a detected anomalous action as further depicted in . For instance an anomalous action detecting module of a computing device may detect an anomalous action with respect to use of computing device during use of computing device by first user and may at least partially cause a level of authentication module to lower a level of authentication e.g. change a level of authentication such that one or more things e.g. applications files contents actions whole devices application features a combination thereof etc. that were capable of being accessed performed acted upon etc. are no longer capable of being accessed performed acted upon etc. or have a reduced level of being accessed performed acted upon etc. with respect to first user .

In various example implementations operation for lowering the level of authentication of the first user if one or more actions of the first user include a detected anomalous action may include an operation for detecting that the first user has performed an action uncharacteristic of the authorized user and or that the first user has performed an action previously identified by the authorized user as being an action to cause lowering of the level of authentication. For instance a computing device a behavioral fingerprint library or an anomalous activity library may alert a level of authentication module or a behavioral fingerprint library of an anomalous action e.g. an action that is statistically unlikely in comparison to those future actions having a determined statistically predictable likelihood in accordance with a behavioral fingerprint and or an action that an authorized user has labeled as or otherwise indicated as being anomalous such as trying to make a purchase over 20 or accessing a particular person s social networking profile which indicated anomalous actions may be stored in anomalous activity library that has been performed by a first user .

In certain example implementations an operation can include operation for alerting a predetermined set of contacts if the statistical predictability of the one or more future actions of the authorized user in conjunction with one or more detected actions results in a predetermined level of authentication of the first user. For instance a computing device may alert a predetermined set of contacts e.g. one or more people or groups of people participating in one or more social networks via e.g. social network library and network interface if a statistical level determination module determines that a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user in conjunction with e.g. in comparison to based on at least one correlation including a combination thereof etc. one or more detected actions e.g. actions that are sensed contemporaneously or currently actions that are sensed recently such as from the present to a predetermined period of time in the past actions that have been sensed since a most recent authentication actions leading up to an anomalous action a combination thereof etc. results in a predetermined level of authentication e.g. reaches a predetermined sufficiently low level of authentication fails to reach a predetermined sufficiently high level of authentication drops a predetermined level of authentication a combination thereof etc. of a first user e.g. because a comparison of one or more detected actions by first user fails to produce a sufficiently high level of correspondence with or does produce a sufficiently low level of correspondence with statistically predicted one or more future actions of an authorized user . A predetermined level of authentication determined for a first user may comprise or correspond to a determination that first user has stolen computing device that first user is on a list of users that are unauthorized for use of computing device generally or use of a particular feature application content capability of computing device that first user has entered a particular number of incorrect passwords that first user is not on a list of authorized users a combination thereof etc. which may result in a lowered level of authentication.

In certain example implementations an operation can include an operation for disabling one or more devices of the authorized user if the level of authentication of the first user is lowered to a predetermined level. For instance a computing device may disable one or more devices e.g. other devices cars locking devices point of sale devices cash dispensing devices a combination thereof etc. for which computing device has control if a level of authentication determined by level of authentication module is altered to a lower predetermined level. The one or more devices can be configured to be automatically disabled without interference e.g. confirmation command input verification capability to belay disablement warning a combination thereof etc. by a first user or an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation can include an operation for disabling at least one functionality of a mobile device of the authorized user if the level of authentication of the first user is lowered to a predetermined level. For instance a computing device may disable at least one functionality of a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA an e reader a laptop a slate tablet computer a portable entertainment device a combination thereof etc. when or if a level of authentication for a first user that is determined by a level of authentication module is altered to a lower predetermined level e.g. lowered to a given absolute level of authentication a level of authentication that is lowered by a given amount a combination thereof etc. . For certain example implementations functionality that might be disabled may include but is not limited to making purchases installing or starting or using apps generally or specifically enumerated apps communicating via social media communicating with an entity that is not already of record e.g. that is not already listed in a device s contacts previously communicated with using some application a combination thereof etc. visiting a web page that has not previously been visited e.g. is not listed in a browsing history visiting an adult oriented web page making international calls downloading or streaming media any combination thereof and so forth. For certain example implementations functionality that might not be disabled may include but is not limited to making emergency e.g. 911 calls making calls to one or more designated numbers e.g. a number or an alternative number of an authorized user communicating with one or more designated contacts e.g. an email address a text message destination a social media outlet etc. that is affiliated with an authorized user using a mapping or navigating application any combination thereof and so forth. At least one functionality of a mobile device can be configured to be automatically disabled without interference e.g. without confirmation command input verification capability to belay disablement a combination thereof etc. by a first user or an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments with reference now to operation for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint can include an operation for determining the level of authentication of the first user at least partially via a reconstructed key formed via gathered data from at least one social network. For instance a computing device a behavioral fingerprint library or a cryptographic library may receive key related data from at least one social network such as from one or more social networks stored in a social network library to reconstruct at least one cryptographic key e.g. at least part of an asymmetric key pair such as a public private key pair at least one Triple DES or AES type cryptographic key another cryptographic key type a combination thereof etc. . If a cryptographic key is reconstructed e.g. rebuilt reformed regenerated refashioned recreated reestablished reformulated reproduced a combination thereof etc. to form a reconstructed key from gathered data from at least one social network a level of authentication for a first user may be established at a predetermined level or raised by a predetermined amount.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for generating a security certificate associated with an authorized user based at least partially on a cryptographic key. For instance a cryptographic library of a computing device may generate a security certificate that is associated with an authorized user based at least partially on a cryptographic key such as a triple DES or AES symmetric key such as at least one key of a private public asymmetric key pair a combination thereof and so forth. In doing so computing device may store a private portion or a public portion of a public private key pair or another cryptographic key type.

Additionally or alternatively operation may be followed by an operation for deriving one or more derived forms of the cryptographic key with the one or more derived forms capable of being distributed via the at least one social network to thereby enable reconstruction of the cryptographic key via the gathered data from the at least one social network. For instance a cryptographic scheme based on a public private key pair may use a private key to derive one or more derived forms of the private key e.g. a derived form of a private key may be produced if a private key is partitioned segmented hashed encrypted encoded rearranged manipulated a combination thereof etc. that can be distributed to one or more users members friends on at least one social network such as one or more social networks stored via a social network library . At least one of the one or more derived forms of a cryptographic key can later be gathered from the users members friends that belong to the at least one social network or used to reconstruct the cryptographic key e.g. at least one derived form of the cryptographic key may be retrieved from those that belong to the at least one social network using the at least one social network even if it were previously distributed outside of the social network at least one derived form of the cryptographic key that was distributed to those that belong to the at least one social network via the at least one social network may be retrieved from those that belong to the at least one social network separately from the at least one social network at least one derived form of the cryptographic may be both distributed and retrieved via the at least one social network etc. .

In certain example implementations an operation for determining the level of authentication of the first user at least partially via a reconstructed key formed via gathered data from at least one social network may include an operation for obtaining one or more cryptographic key pairs each cryptographic key pair including a public key and a private key. For instance a cryptographic library may obtain one or more cryptographic key pairs such as at least one private key for decrypting information and at least one public key for encrypting information. A cryptographic key pair may be generated locally or obtained from a remote source such as a server a certificate authority a combination thereof and so forth.

Additionally or alternatively an operation can be followed by an operation for partitioning the private key into two or more components of the private key at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key usable to form the reconstructed key. For instance a private key of a cryptographic key pair may be partitioned e.g. divided segmented separated into n components separated into equal sized components separated into unequal sized components separated into n bins by selecting every nth character for each bin any combination thereof etc. n representing an integer into at least two components. A least a portion of the two or more components of the private key may be used to form the reconstructed key e.g. by combining the components by concatenating the components by interlacing the components any combination thereof etc. .

Additionally or alternatively an operation can be followed by an operation for distributing the at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to one or more members of the at least one social network. For instance a cryptographic library may distribute via a network interface at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to one or more members of at least one social network which members may belong to one or more social networks as stored by a social network library . Distribution may be effectuated by way of example but not limitation using general communication protocols or features offered by at least one social network using cryptographic key specific communication protocols or features or APIs provided by at least one social network using communication protocols or options that are out of band from the social network e.g. using email addresses garnered via the at least one social network any combination thereof and so forth. Gathering of cryptographic key data from at least one social network may be effected for example using any one or more of the communication protocols features options etc. that are described above with reference to distribution with respect to social network s .

In certain example implementations an operation for distributing the at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to one or more members of the at least one social network can include an operation for distributing the at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to two or more members of the at least one social network. For instance a cryptographic library may distribute via a network interface at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to two or more members of a social network. By way of example but not limitation if partitioned components of a private key are distributed to one or two or more than two members of a social network all or fewer than all partitioned components of a private key may be distributed to member s of a social network. Each recipient member may receive one or more than one component of a private key. Each component of a private key may be sent to one member of a social network or multiple members of a social network e.g. duplicate copies of private key components may be distributed to multiple social network members for redundancy in case a designated member is unavailable when a private key component is to be requested or otherwise retrieved . One or more components of a given private key may be distributed to social network member s without redundant duplication while other one or more components of the given private key may be distributed with redundant duplication. Other partitioned key component approaches may alternatively be employed.

In certain example implementations an operation for determining the level of authentication of the first user at least partially via a reconstructed key formed via gathered data from at least one social network can further include an operation for determining the gathered data from the at least one social network via retrieving one or more components that are derived from a private key from one or more members of the at least one social network the one or more components usable to form the reconstructed key. For instance a cryptographic library may via network interface gather data including one or more components that are derived from a private key from one or more members of the at least one social network which members may be stored with a social network library or remotely e.g. at a server related to a theft monitoring recovery service at a server related to at least one social network at a server managing behavioral fingerprints a combination thereof etc. . Gathered data including one or more components derived from a private key may be usable to form a reconstructed key that corresponds e.g. to a private key of a cryptographic public private key pair. Data including one or more components derived from a private key may be gathered using general social network communication features e.g. sending messages writing privately on a wall sending a private tweet a combination thereof etc. using at least one application programming interface API of a social network that is tailored to provide cryptographic key data using contact information acquired via a social network using contact information acquired via a social network and a communication path that is out of band from the social network any combination thereof and so forth. For example implementations a computing device may retrieve at least one component that is derived from a private key from one or more members of at least one social network automatically e.g. without explicit contemporaneous approval by a social network member via a social network interface after approval by a social network member by requesting verification from a social network member that an authorized user of computing device is believed to be in current possession of computing device any combination thereof and so forth. Two or more social network members that are capable of providing a same component usable to at least partially form a reconstructed key may be contacted to improve a likelihood that gathered data may be gathered from at least one member for each component to be retrieved. By way of example but not limitation a request to retrieve key components may be sent via e.g. at least one private social network message to members of at least one social network individually or as a group.

In certain example implementations an operation can include an operation for determining one or more members of the at least one social network from which to gather the gathered data each of the one or more members capable of providing at least one component that is adapted to contribute to forming the reconstructed key. For instance a computing device may determine one or more members of at least one social network via a social network library from which to gather e.g. retrieve request acquire obtain amalgamate reclaim a combination thereof etc. with each of the one or more members being capable of providing at least one component that is adapted to contribute to forming a reconstructed key via a cryptographic library e.g. contributing by providing at least a portion of cryptographic key contributing by indicating a cryptographic process for regenerating a key contributing by providing an input or modifier to a process for inversely deriving e.g. decoding de interlacing etc. a key contributing by indicating at least one avenue for recovering or rebuilding a key contributing by providing an address or pointer to any of the above a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a determination of one or more members of at least one social network may be effected by a computing device by retrieving a stored group of social network members e.g. trusted social network members from memory may be effected by a computing device by retrieving identities e.g. names contact information social network communication links or identities a combination thereof etc. of members from at least one social network may be effected by a computing device by retrieving identified members from at least one server any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments as illustrated in an operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance an access restriction module of a computing device may restrict access via computing device to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more items e.g. electronic documents including productivity documents such as word processing documents spreadsheets presentation slides a combination thereof etc. electronic documents including electronic messages such as emails instant messages social network messages comments including but not limited to those associated with a social network Twitter messages aka Tweets a combination thereof etc. image files audio files video files a combination thereof etc. applications passwords portion s of an operating system one or more features Wi Fi wireless broadband internet payment services order services etc. of a device combinations thereof and so forth in response to the determining by at least restricting access to the one or more items that were or would be accessible by an authorized user e.g. was or would be accessible visible editable commentable usable a combination thereof etc. by the authorized user when or if the authorized user was or is using the computing device . For instance an application access restriction module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access via computing device to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more applications e.g. a productivity application such as a word processing application a communication application such as an IM application a gaming application a local application a web application e.g. that executes at least partially within a browser or remotely on a server a native application a remote application e.g. that executes at least partially in the cloud a combination thereof and so forth in response to the determining. In some example cases such restrictions to one or more applications may be related to restricting use of one or more functionalities of the one or more applications e.g. content viewing may be allowed but editing may be blocked viewing a social network site or stream may be permitted but adding input or comments may be prevented local usage may be allowed but internet connected usage may be barred application usage may be freely permitted until an application requires additional funds to continue or change capabilities which funds disbursement or payment may be disallowed a combination thereof etc. . In some example embodiments access can be complete for instance an access restricting module including a no access module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access to one or more items that were or would be accessible by a first user if the first user were an authorized user of computing device by having the no access module provide no access e.g. completely hiding or erasing any indications of the existence of the one or more items renaming or disguising a true nature of an item blocking viewing of content preventing launch of an application a combination thereof etc. to the one or more items that were or would be accessible by an authorized user who was or may be subsequently using the computing device .

As further illustrated in by way of example but not limitation operation may include one or more additional operations in various alternative implementations. In certain example implementations operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more productivity applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance an access restricting module including a document access restricting module see of a computing device may restrict access to one or more productivity applications e.g. document creation modifying applications communication applications image or video creation modifying applications graphical creation modifying applications a combination thereof etc. that were or would be accessible by a first user if first user was or is determined to be an authorized user of the computing device by having a productivity document access restricting module provide restricted access e.g. no access read only view only access limited functional access if the one or more productivity applications includes one or more applications a combination thereof etc. to the one or more items that were or would be accessible by an authorized user using the computing device .

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more communication applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance a communication application access restriction module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access via the computing device to one or more communication applications e.g. an email application an instant messaging or IM application a text messaging application a social networking application that enables transmission reception exchange of communications such as messages comments tweets retweets postings pinnings etc. an application that enables posting of comments tweets text images videos etc. a voice or video over internet protocol IP application an application that enables completion and forwarding of forms any combination thereof and so forth in response to the determining.

In certain example implementations an access restricting operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more applications in response to the determining may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more personal information manager applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance a personal information manager application access restriction module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access via computing device to one or more personal information manager applications e.g. Microsoft Outlook an application that contains information about contacts such as a telephone number or email directory an application that contains information about people in at least one social network group such as a friends followers or circle companions an application that provides access to a person s schedule an application that provides access to a person s upcoming tasks an application that provides access to a person s likely current geographical location a web or cloud based application that provides access to any of the above a combination thereof etc. in response to the determining.

In certain example implementations as further illustrated in an operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more automatic tasks that are associated with a predetermined level of authentication of an authorized user in response at least in part to the determining. For instance a no automatic task functionality module e.g. of of a computing device may prevent via the computing device and in response at least in part to the determining one or more automatic tasks e.g. automatic email or other communication checking retrieval displaying automatic door unlocking or opening automatic car starting automatic purchase approval or authorization a combination thereof etc. from being performed based at least partially on a level of authentication. By way of example only automatic door unlocking or car starting may be restricted if a level of authentication falls below a highest level automatic purchase authorization may be restricted if a level of authentication decreases to another lower level and automatic communication display may be restricted if a level of authentication decreases to yet another lower level and so forth.

For certain example embodiments as further illustrated in an operation may include an operation for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user with respect to the computing device at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint that is based at least in part on one or more interactions between another device and an authorized user of the computing device. By way of example but not limitation a level of authentication associated with a first user with respect to a computing device may be determined at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint which behavioral fingerprint may be based at least in part on one or more interactions e.g. general usage of swipes on typing with manipulations of features physical transport of application accessing internet location accessing people contacted social network accessing social network monitoring passwords entered a combination thereof etc. between a device and an authorized user of computing device . For instance behavioral fingerprint characteristics obtained with respect to a device may be applied with respect to a computing device .

For certain example embodiments as further illustrated in an operation may include an operation for receiving at least a portion of the behavioral fingerprint from at least one server. By way of example but not limitation a computing device may receive at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint from at least one server from a cloud based service a combination thereof and so forth. For instance at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint e.g. a complete behavioral fingerprint a part of a behavioral fingerprint updates to a behavioral fingerprint changes to a behavioral fingerprint augmentations to a behavioral fingerprint a combination thereof etc. that is used to at least partially determine a level of authentication at a computing device may be received from a server in the cloud. A received at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may comprise behavioral characteristics detected in the cloud may comprise behavioral characteristics detected at another device may comprise behavioral characteristics that are amended augmented transformed edited a combination thereof etc. in the cloud at one server e.g. but attained in the cloud from another device a computing device another server a combination thereof etc. any combination thereof and so forth.

As further illustrated in in some example implementations operation may include following an operation an operation for combining the received at least a portion of the behavioral fingerprint with at least another portion of the behavioral fingerprint that is determined responsive to one or more actions of an authorized user that are sensed at the computing device. By way of example but not limitation a computing device may combine a received at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint with at least another portion of a behavioral fingerprint with the other portion determined responsive to one or more actions of an authorized user that are sensed at computing device . For instance a local version of a behavioral fingerprint at a computing device may be updated augmented partially replaced changed a combination thereof etc. with behavioral characteristics received from the cloud. Additionally or alternatively a computing device may send at least changes updates augmentations combinations thereof etc. of or to a local version of a behavioral fingerprint to at least one server in the cloud. A combined behavioral fingerprint may be used to determine a level of authentication for a first user going forward e.g. after a combination of a local behavioral fingerprint and a cloud behavioral fingerprint .

A more detailed discussion related to example embodiments of a computer server of is provided below with respect to example processes or operations that are described herein. Referring now to a detailed discussion related to an example computing device an example computer server a combination thereof etc. of is provided below with respect to example alternative processes or operations that are described herein. illustrates an operational flow representing example operations for among other things developing communicating sharing using implementing a combination thereof etc. a behavioral fingerprint in accordance with certain example embodiments. In and in the following figures e.g. or that include various examples of operational flows discussions and explanations are provided with respect to exemplary environment which is described above and as illustrated in or with respect to other example environments or example contexts e.g. as provided in etc. . However it should be understood that the operational flows may be executed in a number of other environments or contexts or in modified versions of or or of or . Also although various operational flows are presented in particular illustrated sequence s it should be understood that various operations may be performed in orders other than those that are illustrated or may be performed fully or partially concurrently. Moreover example descriptions for operations of may be applicable to or illuminate corresponding operations of and vice versa unless context dictates otherwise. Similarly example descriptions for operations of or may be applicable to or illuminate corresponding operations of or and vice versa unless context dictates otherwise.

Further in and in the figures to follow thereafter e.g. or various operations may be depicted in a box within a box manner. Such depictions may indicate that an operation in an internal box may comprise an optional example embodiment of an operation illustrated in one or more external boxes. However it should be understood that internal box operation s may be viewed or implemented as independent operations that are at least partially separate from any associated external boxes or may be performed in any sequence with respect to other illustrated operations or may be performed fully or partially concurrently. Still further those operations illustrated in or or and described herein as well as other operations described herein may be performed realized implemented a combination thereof etc. by at least one of a machine an article of manufacture or a composition of matter unless indicated otherwise.

For certain example embodiments after a start operation an operational flow of may include an identification operation for identifying a network connection coupling a computer server to a computing device. For certain example implementations and as an illustration a network connection i may be established or may exist via or over one or more networks e.g. a wireless network a wired network an internet an intranet a public network a private network a packet switched network a circuit switched network an ad hoc network an infrastructure network a combination thereof etc. or ii may have one or more nodes e.g. a server a router an end user device a mobile phone a tablet computer a desktop computer an entertainment appliance a vehicle a combination thereof etc. a switch a base station some combination thereof etc. that transmit receive forward generate buffer store a combination thereof etc. one or more messages packets signals a combination thereof etc. that are to be or that are being communicated between a computer server and a computing device . By way of example but not limitation a computer server may be coupled e.g. by wire or wirelessly connected to in communication with engaged in a circuit switched or a packet switched communication extending at least partially between two endpoints capable of exchanging electronic signals any combination thereof etc. via at least one network or one or more communication links thereof having one or multiple hops to a computing device e.g. of .

For certain example embodiments in addition to an identification operation operational flow may also include a behavioral fingerprint operation for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device as further illustrated in . For certain example implementations a computer server may transmit via a network interface or one or more networks a behavioral fingerprint e.g. at least a portion of at least an update to at least an indicator relating to at least an alert for at least a notification related to at least a change concerning a combination thereof etc. a behavioral fingerprint . A behavioral fingerprint may be transmitted to another server a cloud based service or system a computing device another device any combination thereof and so forth. A behavioral fingerprint may provide at least one status e.g. a physical or virtual location an alert of an actual or potential problem a notification of an event an update for an activity pattern a change to any of the above new content a combination thereof etc. of an authorized user e.g. an authorized user as described herein above by way of example and with particular reference to an owner a legitimate possessor a user that has permission of an owner a lessee a purchaser an approved borrower a listed or otherwise designated authorized user an authorized user having a full level of access an authorized user having a partial level of access to a full spectrum of device capabilities a new authorized user a combination thereof etc. with respect to a computing device that may by way of example but not limitation be gleaned by observation of behavior such as behavior of an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments further shows an operation for transmitting via the network connection a level of authentication of the authorized user for network accessible functions relating to the behavioral fingerprint. For certain example implementations a computer server may transmit via a network interface or one or more networks a level of authentication for any one or more network accessible functions as shown in that are associated with a behavioral fingerprint . Transmission may be effectuated to a computing device another device another server a cloud computing service or system any combination thereof and so forth. A level of authentication may be configured so as to restrict access for instance to one or more items or actions as a function of the level of authentication assigned to first user . If a first user is identified as an authorized user a level of authentication module may be configured to take into account a behavioral fingerprint associated with that authorized user.

For certain example embodiments further shows an operation for enabling one or more tasks to be performed automatically as a function of the level of authentication of the authorized user. For certain example implementations a computer server may enable tasks associated with functions such as those shown in e.g. a communication application or a productivity application to be performed automatically. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may enable access to or use of a cloud based feature or service without any further authenticating credential or credentials. Additionally or alternatively a computer server may enable tasks associated with functions such as those shown in e.g. a communication application or a productivity application to be performed automatically. For instance a computer server may send an indication a code an authorization an instruction a piece of software a link to a resource any combination thereof etc. to a computing device to enable automatic task performance.

As will be further described herein a behavioral fingerprint operation of may be executed in a variety of different ways in various alternative embodiments. or for example illustrate at least some of the alternative ways that an operation of may be executed in various alternative embodiments. For certain example embodiments in various implementations as depicted in an operation e.g. of may include an operation for determining the behavioral fingerprint via confirming at least one internet presence of the authorized user of the computing device. For certain example implementations a server may determine a behavioral fingerprint via confirming at least one internet presence e.g. at least one interaction via or across the internet at least one visitation of at least one web site at least one logging into a web service at least one logging into a social network at least one email or instant message communication transmission or reception at least one social network communication at least one internet facilitated purchase at least one usage of a web service a social network a combination thereof etc. in accordance with predictive activity patterns of an existing behavioral fingerprint some combination thereof etc. of an authorized user of a computing device . By way of example but not limitation a behavioral fingerprint module may determine a behavioral fingerprint of a first user by establishing that first user is an authorized user of a computing device or by generating a behavioral fingerprint with a fingerprint build degradation module or a fingerprint generation module in conjunction with related internet access or interaction. Generation or building of a behavioral fingerprint may include for instance statistical calculations that are based on prior actions and that are used to predict likelihood values for future actions of an authorized user.

As further illustrated in in certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint determination operation may additionally or alternatively include an operation for sensing one or more actions of the authorized user and two or more designated internet available entities. For certain example embodiments sensors or level of authentication module or another component of a computing device e.g. of may send to a server data derived from actions sensed by one or more sensors data derived from actions involving network access e.g. including at least one designated internet available entity a combination thereof and so forth. Additionally or alternatively a server may sense received e.g. as a destination as intercepted a combination thereof etc. data that is derived from actions of an authorized user e.g. at a computing device may sense received e.g. as a destination as intercepted a combination thereof etc. data that is derived from interactions with at least one internet available entity e.g. from a computing device another device an internet available entity a combination thereof etc. may sense activities of at least one designated internet available entity such as via a cloud computing network or service a network another device a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof and so forth. A server may for example determine a behavioral fingerprint e.g. for an authorized user for a first user a combination thereof etc. using received data sensed actions e.g. physical actions virtual actions interactions a combination thereof etc. one or more internet available entities any combination thereof and so forth. By way of example but not limitation an internet available entity may comprise a web service a web service provider a cloud based service a cloud based service provider another device that is connected to an internet a social network member a social network a search engine an email service an email provider an instant message service an instant message provider an email recipient an instant message participant a website some combination thereof and so forth.

Data from one or more of various types of sensors may be used in order to determine a behavioral fingerprint that is to be stored in whole or in part atomically or in a distributed fashion at a computer server at a computing device at another device at a cloud computing service or system a combination thereof and so forth. For certain example embodiments and as further illustrated in an operation may be followed by an operation for applying at least one reliability criteria to the sensed one or more actions of the authorized user and the two or more designated internet available entities to generate the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user. For certain example implementations a server may apply at least one reliability criteria e.g. statistical values probabilistic algorithms Bayesian analysis stochastic mechanisms a combination thereof etc. to one or more sensed actions of an authorized user and two or more designated internet available entities to generate e.g. create build expand modify adjust tune a combination thereof etc. a behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user. By way of example but not limitation one or more actions e.g. logging in making a purchase via the web or a physical store traveling to different locations visiting one or more virtual or physical locations sending a communication receiving a communication responding to a communication approving a purchase acting as an intermediary between two or more entities interacting with a social network interacting with particular members of a social network interacting in particular manners with a social network a combination thereof etc. of an authorized user and two or more designated internet available entities may be analyzed in view of statistical probabilities or one or more other criteria to determine if sensed actions are consistent with a current behavioral fingerprint or used to generate regenerate or amend a behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for storing the sensed one or more actions of the authorized user and the two or more designated internet available entities as further depicted in . For certain example implementations a server may store e.g. locally at server remotely at a computing device another device another server a cloud computing server or system storage area network a combination thereof etc. separately or grouped fully or partially together atomically or distributed some combination thereof etc. one or more sensed actions of an authorized user and two or more designated internet available entities. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may store in at least one memory including e.g. in a library of behavioral fingerprints e.g. of one or more actions sensed by sensors one or more actions sensed by a network interface one or more actions sensed over a network one or more social network interactions any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for detecting the authorized user logging into one or more social networks as further depicted in . For certain example implementations a server may detect an authorized user logging into one or more social networks e.g. a friend oriented social network a professional oriented social network an entertainment oriented social network a sharing oriented social network a communication oriented social network a text oriented social network an image oriented social network a video oriented social network Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram Myspace Google LinkedIn a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a computer server e.g. of may detect one or more actions over a network such as one or more social network interactions that include logging into e.g. providing at least one credential entering a username and password offering an identifying physical characteristic such as a fingerprint iris scan or facial picture any combination thereof etc. for authenticating with a social network. For instance detecting a logging in by an authorized user may include a communication application executing at least part of a social network application or a behavioral fingerprint library storing login data.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for mapping one or more locations of the authorized user in conjunction with interaction with the two or more designated internet available entities. For certain example implementations a server may map one or more locations e.g. physical locations such as an address satellite positioning system SPS coordinates an establishment name a neighborhood a combination thereof etc. or virtual locations such as a website a social network a cloud service a portion thereof a combination thereof etc. of an authorized user in conjunction with interaction with two or more designated internet available entities. By way of example but not limitation one or more physical locations or one or more virtual locations visited by an authorized user may be mapped e.g. recorded stored memorialized cataloged linked to a geographical map grouped by domain grouped by subject matter some combination thereof etc. in conjunction with interaction with two or more designated internet available entities e.g. a social network and a cloud based service provider a social network member and a social network a social network or member thereof and a game or other application hosted by the social network an internet connected device owned or operated by another user some combination thereof and so forth . For various example implementations correspondences e.g. correlations commonalities overlapping instances combinations thereof etc. of mapped locations of an authorized user and interactions with designated internet available entities may be ascertained in order to establish a behavioral fingerprint e.g. a statistical profile of likely actions of an authorized user. For an example physical location implementation a level of authentication module of a computing device or a server e.g. of may determine that a first user is operating computing device via a network connection and using one or more location aware applications e.g. a GPS enabled application such as a GPS of computing device as shown on to locate the authorized user via the computing device . Additionally or alternatively designated internet available entities may be located via social network functionalities such as a check in function on a smart phone application running on devices of other users via cross coordination with a behavioral fingerprint service for a designated internet available entity a combination thereof and so forth. As another example if a first user is physically proximate e.g. within a distance that enables in person or face to face communication at a same shopping or entertainment facility a combination thereof etc. to a designated internet available entity of a behavioral fingerprint of a given computing device then it may be inferred that first user of the given computing device is relatively likely to be an authorized user of the given computing device .

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for detecting at least one contact pattern between or among the authorized user and the two or more designated internet available entities. For certain example implementations a server may detect at least one contact pattern e.g. at least one repetition or identifiable correspondence between or among incidences of contacts such as meeting via a physical or a virtual location communicating via a specific mechanism e.g. email vs. instant message vs. social network contacting at certain times of day or days of week contacting while doing something else e.g. making a purchase sitting in particular establishment playing a game researching financial data a combination thereof etc. including one or more third parties some combination thereof etc. between or among an authorized user and two or more designated internet available entities. By way of example but not limitation one or more applications running on a computer server which may include one or more cloud computer servers e.g. of may detect how often where when using which communication channels a combination thereof etc. an authorized user of a computing device interacts with two or more internet available entities such as people or services or other devices to determine a pattern of physical or virtual contact associated with an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for detecting one or more contacts frequently interacted with by the authorized user via one or more social networks to determine at least one interaction pattern associated with the authorized user as depicted in . For certain example implementations a server may detect one or more contacts e.g. individuals groups of people entities entries in a list of contacts for a device or user a combination thereof etc. frequently e.g. sufficiently regularly such that an absence of such interaction can be detected sufficiently quickly so as to detect unauthorized use of a device before too much damage occurs such as every few minutes every hour several times a day daily every couple of or few days weekly a combination thereof for different contacts etc. interacted with by an authorized user via one or more social networks to determine at least one interaction pattern associated with the authorized user. By way of example but not limitation a level of authentication module of a computing device or a computer server e.g. of may detect one or more contacts frequently interacted with via at least one social network e.g. Facebook Twitter Linkedln Pinterest a combination thereof etc. by an authorized user of computing device using e.g. a social network library to determine a pattern of interaction e.g. identity of contacts interacted with frequency of interaction with contacted persons associated with an authorized user time s of day of interaction day s of week of interaction communication channel s of interaction social network used to facilitate interaction some combination thereof etc. e.g. generally with respect to multiple contacts or specifically with respect to one or more particular contacts.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for storing one or more locations visited by the authorized user the one or more locations including one or more physical locations or one or more virtual locations as depicted in . For certain example implementations a e.g. server may store via a memory or a network interface or one or more networks one or more locations visited by an authorized user with the one or more locations including one or more physical locations or one or more virtual locations. Storage of location s may for instance be implemented analogously to storage of sensed action s e.g. as described herein above with particular reference to operation and vice versa except where context dictates otherwise. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may cause to be stored at computer server a computing device another device another e.g. cloud related server a combination thereof etc. a physical location e.g. a street address one or more satellite positioning system SPS coordinates one or more longitude or latitude coordinates one or more map coordinates a destination name such as a neighborhood a city a business establishment a combination thereof etc. a virtual location e.g. a web address a web site a uniform universal resource locator URL a web service a cloud service a social network a part of a social network such as a part affiliated with a member thereof a virtual world a location within a virtual world a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof and so forth. For example a level of authentication module of a computing device or a computer server e.g. of using a social network library a location aware application e.g. a GPS enabled application a WiFi based location aware application a cellular tower trilateration based location aware application a combination thereof etc. a web browser a search tool bar a browser plug in an operating system function or feature a combination thereof etc. may obtain physical locations or internet address based locations visited by or associated with an authorized user and a computing device or a computer server may store visited locations in a memory or other memory. Location information e.g. that is to be stored may originate at or be received from a computer server a computing device another device a cloud related server a cellular service provider e.g. via a cell tower location database a Wi Fi based location service a cellular service provider or internet service provider ISP that stores retrieves or otherwise has access to location s e.g. as acquired via GPS coordinates that are stored such as in a table or database at a computing device or another device a combination thereof and so forth.

With reference to one or more example operations of an operation for certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for altering the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user as a function of one or more sensed actions of a device user and the two or more designated internet available entities. For certain example implementations a server may alter a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user as a function of one or more sensed actions of a device user e.g. a first user an authorized user an unauthorized user a combination thereof etc. and two or more designated internet available entities. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may modify a behavioral fingerprint to account for changed actions or changing actions over time by a device user that comprises an authorized user e.g. as habits evolve visited locations change as interactions evolve as contact patterns evolve as preferred social network s evolve a combination thereof etc. . Additionally or alternatively a computer server may modify a behavioral fingerprint to account for changed actions or abruptly changing actions that indicate at least one action has been performed or otherwise has occurred that is anomalous e.g. incongruous out of place inconsistent novel a combination thereof etc. with respect to or in comparison with one or more detected actions used to generate behavioral fingerprint e.g. that fail to fit a statistical model of one or more actions of an authorized user or that may be performed by a device user that does not comprise an authorized user. For example a computer server or a computing device may alter a level of authentication associated with a behavioral fingerprint using a level of authentication module as a function of one or more sensed actions of a device user e.g. an authorized user an unauthorized user a first user any combination thereof etc. along with action s of two or more designated internet available entities.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for generating at least one alert as part of the behavioral fingerprint if the one or more sensed actions of the device user include at least one detected anomalous action as depicted in . For certain example implementations a server may generate e.g. formulate create prepare obtain origination destination payload a combination thereof etc. data for retrieve a template for transmit signal enter some combination thereof etc. at least one alert e.g. a signal an indication a message a notification an email a test message a phone call a social network based communication such as a post or tweet a combination thereof etc. as part of a behavioral fingerprint if one or more sensed actions of a device user include at least one detected anomalous action. A generated alert may be stored by way of example only at a server prior to during or after transmission from server . By way of example but not limitation at least one alert may be generated as part of a behavioral fingerprint if at least one sensed action e.g. moving to or visiting a physical location or a virtual location contacting or otherwise interacting with a person logging into a cloud service logging in to a social network making a purchase downloading or installing a new application swiping a screen a combination thereof etc. of a device user e.g. an authorized user an unauthorized user a first user a combination thereof etc. includes at least one detected anomalous action e.g. an action that is statistically unlikely based on previous actions of an authorized user an action that is not predicted based on previous actions of an authorized user an action that has been previously identified explicitly or implicitly as comprising an anomalous action a purchase at a new location a purchase that exceeds a predetermined threshold associating with a new or different member of a social network joining a new social network setting up a new account a combination thereof etc. . An action may be explicitly identified for example as comprising an anomalous action via at least one user interface that enables an authorized user to designate e.g. check off type in list select a combination thereof etc. an action as anomalous. An action may be implicitly identified for example as comprising an anomalous action by limiting certain actions that may be performed or may be legitimately performed with a device e.g. transactions may be limited to being under 100 certain websites may be blocked travel to certain physical locations may be forbidden a combination thereof etc. without an explicit authentication operation.

For example implementations an alert generating module may interact with an anomalous action detecting module of a computing device or computer server may detect an anomalous action with respect to computing device or with respect to one or more sensed actions of device user of computing device during use of computing device or by using another computing device. For example an authorized user may borrow or use a public computer or a friend s computer to send an alert or create an anomalous action if a computing device is missing or has been stolen. An alert or an anomalous action may indicate that a particular action or any actions by a first user may cause a level of authentication module of a computing device to lower a level of authentication with respect to first user with respect to computing device with respect to other devices any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments an operation for generating at least one alert may include an operation for transmitting the at least one alert to the computing device. For certain example implementations a computer server may transmit e.g. via a wireless or wired transmission over the internet using TCP IP or another protocol using an instant message or a text message using an email using a proprietary format using a social network communication pathway such as a tweet a post a pinning a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof etc. at least one communication containing an alert toward a computing device . By way of example but not limitation an alert generating module of a computer server may send to computing device via network interface or one or more networks at least one alert to a behavioral fingerprint library . An anomalous activity library thereof may alert a level of authentication module or a behavioral fingerprint module to an anomalous action that is stored by anomalous activity library .

For certain example embodiments an operation for generating at least one alert may include an operation for transmitting the at least one alert to one or more applications running on a cloud computing system. For certain example implementations a computer server may transmit at least one communication containing an alert toward a cloud computing system running one or more cloud based applications e.g. a productivity application such as a word processing application a spreadsheet application a slide presentation creation application a combination thereof etc. a communication application such as an email application an instant message application a combination thereof etc. an entertainment application such as a photo editing application a video viewing application a gaming application a combination thereof etc. a social network application such as ones capable of sharing pictures thoughts experiences likes a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof etc. . A cloud based application may include those applications that are executed at least partially at a remote server in a cloud environment those applications that are providing services via a cloud computing system a combination thereof and so forth. A cloud based application may be operated from within or by a browser may comprise an application running on an operating system and receiving directives or code from a cloud computing system a combination thereof and so forth. For example a computer server may transmit at least one alert via a network interface or one or more networks to another server that is operating in a cloud computing environment different from that of the transmitting computer server to another server that is operating in a cloud computing environment that is the same as that of the transmitting computer server to an application that is running on a same server or server farm as that of a behavioral fingerprint service a combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for transmitting the at least one alert to the two or more designated internet available entities via the cloud computing system. For certain example implementations a computer server may transmit at least one alert to two or more designated internet available entities via a cloud computing system that is capable of accessing or communicating with the two or more designated internet available entities or that is capable of receiving communications from computer server . By way of example but not limitation a predetermined set of contacts may be alerted via a computer server that is operating in a cloud environment if a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user in comparison with one or more sensed actions of a current device user is sufficiently divergent so as to cause an alert. For instance a computing device or a computer server may alert a predetermined set of contacts via a social network library or a network interface if a statistical level determination module determines that a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user fails to coincide with one or more current sensed actions.

For certain example embodiments an operation altering a behavioral fingerprint may include an operation for notifying multiple contacts via at least one social network if at least one alert is initiated by the authorized user. For certain example implementations if an authorized user initiates e.g. generates formulates transmits signals sends out enters information such as a behavioral fingerprint security service destination or a social network destination a nature of concern or problem social network members who should receive a combination thereof etc. prompts or causes any of the above sends an email or other message to accomplish any of the above some combination thereof etc. at least one alert e.g. from a computing device from another one or more devices from a device owned by another a combination thereof etc. a computer server may notify multiple contacts by using a communication protocol API feature a combination thereof etc. of at least one social network having as members the multiple contacts to be notified. By way of example but not limitation a behavioral fingerprint or security alert system may cause multiple contacts to be automatically notified without interference by a first user or without contemporaneous input or commands from an authorized user. For instance a computer server may send a private tweet may post on a wall may send an instant message may send a text message may make an automated call a combination thereof etc. to multiple contacts using at least one communication pathway provided or otherwise facilitated by at least one social network.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for disabling at least partially one or more devices of the authorized user if an alteration to a behavioral fingerprint is indicative that the one or more devices of the authorized user have been compromised with respect to authentication. For certain example implementations a computer server may at least partially disable one or more devices of an authorized user e.g. block access to all functionality or brick block access to at least a portion of all functionality block access to certain applications or functionality block access to functionality that incurs charges block access to certain files block access to modifying files block access to inputting information into a social network block access to inputting information into and receiving output information from a social network stop certain functionality from operating stop functionality that incurs charges from operating refuse to accept local user input block access to functionality that is not related to providing emergency help functionality e.g. such that 911 calls or emergency alert notification apps do remain enabled a combination thereof etc. if an alteration to a behavioral fingerprint is indicative that one or more other devices of the authorized user have been compromised with respect to authentication. A behavioral fingerprint may be altered accordingly for example if an alert is generated for it if a level of authentication is changed for it if a device is indicated to be lost if a non authorized user appears to be using a device some combination thereof and so forth. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may disable one or more other devices or computing device if a behavioral fingerprint determined via a library of behavioral fingerprints or a behavioral fingerprint module is altered to an untrustworthy level. Other devices or a computing device may be configured to be automatically disabled without interference by a first user or without contemporaneous input or commands by an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for disabling at least partially via the computer server at least one mobile device of the authorized user if the behavioral fingerprint is indicative that a level of authentication for the at least one mobile device is to be lowered to a predetermined level or by a predetermined amount. For certain example implementations a computer server may disable at least one mobile device of an authorized user e.g. a mobile device that is associated with an authorized user through ownership an account or otherwise a mobile device linked to a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with an authorized user a combination thereof etc. if a behavioral fingerprint is indicative e.g. includes a command to change a level of authentication includes a notification triggering a change of authentication level includes an announcement of a particular or different authentication level provides information or description of one or more actions that prompt an authentication level change such as in comparison to predicted information or actions a combination thereof etc. that a level of authentication for the at least one mobile device is to be lowered to a predetermined level e.g. an absolute level a labeled level a lowest level of authentication a level of authentication approaching a lowest level an identifiable authentication level a combination thereof etc. or by a predetermined amount e.g. a relative amount a single authentication level decrease one or more levels of decrease of authentication levels a numerical or percentage decrease a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a computer server may disable a mobile device or any other device if a behavioral fingerprint determined via a library of behavioral fingerprints or a behavioral fingerprint module is altered to an untrustworthy level. A mobile device may be configured to be automatically disabled without interference by a first user or without contemporaneous input or command from an authorized user e.g. without simultaneous input command from an authorized user without input command from an authorized user after the authorized user has previously configured disablement settings without input command from an authorized user after discernment of information or actions leading to a disablement of a device a combination thereof etc. .

Referring now to for certain example embodiments an operation for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device may include an operation for regenerating the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user based at least partially on a reconstructed key that is at least partially formed via data gathered from at least one social network. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with an authorized user may be regenerated e.g. rebuilt reactivated renewed recreated reacquired reestablished a combination thereof etc. based at least partially on a reconstructed e.g. rebuilt reformed recreated a combination thereof etc. cryptographic key that is at least partially formed e.g. amalgamated concatenated derived created via transformation created via translation created via decoding created via lookup created via retrieval from a referenced information source a combination thereof etc. via data e.g. a key fragment a value a number an alphanumeric value a code a URL an encoding decoding algorithm or approach a transformation algorithm or approach a translation algorithm or approach a reconstruction procedure or formula a link or pointer to additional data a combination thereof etc. gathered from at least one social network. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may use behavioral fingerprint library or cryptographic library may receive key data from at least one social network such as a social network stored in social network library to reconstruct a private key of a public private key pair a Triple DES type cryptographic key an AES type cryptographic key another type of cryptographic key or keys a combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for generating a security certificate associated with the authorized user based on at least one cryptographic key. For certain example implementations a security certificate e.g. a public key cryptography certificate a public key certificate a digital certificate an identity certificate a certificate associated with at least one cryptographic key a certificate from a certificate authority a certificate evidencing validity of a public key or public private key pairing a combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user may be generated based on at least one cryptographic key e.g. a private key a public key a Triple DES key an AES key a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a cryptographic library of a computing device or a computer server may generate a security certificate alone or in conjunction with another entity that is associated with an authorized user based at least partially on a cryptographic key such as a triple DES key an AES key or an asymmetrical key pair such as a private public key pair. In doing so a computing device or a computer server may store or encrypt at least a private portion of a public private key pair.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be followed by an operation for producing one or more derivations of the at least one cryptographic key to enable distribution of the one or more derivations of the at least one cryptographic key to enable reconstruction of the at least one cryptographic key via the data gathered from the at least one social network. For certain example implementations one or more derivations e.g. fragments portions encoded versions decoded versions transformations translations a combination thereof etc. of at least one cryptographic key may be produced to enable distribution e.g. electronic transmission emailing texting instant messaging posting tweeting transmission via a social media pathway individual transference group transference encrypted transmission open transmission a combination thereof etc. of the one or more derivations of the at least one cryptographic key to enable reconstruction of the at least one cryptographic key via data gathered e.g. collected retrieved obtained amalgamated acquired via a reverse of a distribution channel identified above or another channel requested a combination thereof etc. from at least one social network e.g. from a social network protocol from a social network server from a member of a social network via a social network API via social network app any combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation with a computer server a private key of a public private key pair may be altered such that one or more portions or other derivations of the private key may be distributed to members e.g. users friends account holders a combination thereof etc. of at least one social network such as one or more social networks that are stored via a social network library . Such portions or other derivations may be subsequently gathered from the members of the social network to reconstruct a cryptographic key.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for determining at least one cryptographic key pair including at least one private key and at least one public key. For certain example implementations at least one cryptographic key pair including at least one private key or at least one public key may be determined e.g. obtained created calculated from a public key or a private key acquired from a key certificate authority a combination thereof etc. by a server . By way of example but not limitation a cryptographic library may determine a private public key pair having a private key or a public key.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be followed by an operation for partitioning the at least one private key into two or more components of the at least one private key to enable distribution of at least one component of the two or more components of the at least one private key the two or more components of the at least one private key usable to form the reconstructed key. For certain example implementations at least one private key may be partitioned e.g. separated divided segmented apportioned a combination thereof etc. into two or more components e.g. digits numerals alphanumeric characters parts portions modified versions thereof a combination thereof etc. of the at least one private key to enable distribution of at least one component of the two or more components of the at least one private key with the two or more components of the at least one private key usable to form e.g. regenerate concatenate amalgamate interlace decode perform an inverse of a partitioning a combination thereof etc. the reconstructed key e.g. a key that enables regeneration of a behavioral fingerprint . By way of example but not limitation for a cryptographic scheme based on a public private key pair a private key may be partitioned into two or more components for distribution of at least one of the two or more components. Prior to generating a reconstructed key any distributed components may be retrieved.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be followed by an operation for distributing the at least one component of the two or more components of the at least one private key to one or more members of the at least one social network. For certain example implementations at least one component of two or more components that are partitioned from at least one private key may be distributed e.g. via electronic transmission via emailing via texting via instant messaging via posting via tweeting via transmission using a social media pathway via an individual transference procedure via a group transference procedure via at least one encrypted transmission via at least one open transmission a combination thereof etc. to one or more members e.g. individuals groups registrants free participants paid participants a combination thereof etc. of at least one social network. By way of example but not limitation a cryptographic library may distribute with a computer server via a network interface or one or more networks one or more components partitioned from a private key to one or more members of at least one social network. One or more members may comprise a trusted group may be identified by an authorized user may be selected by an authorized user any combination thereof etc. from one or more social networks which member s or social network s may be stored by a social network library .

For certain example embodiments an operation for regenerating the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user based at least partially on a reconstructed key that is at least partially formed via data gathered from at least one social network may include an operation for obtaining the data gathered from the at least one social network via retrieving from one or more members of the at least one social network one or more components that are derived from at least one private key and that are usable to form the reconstructed key. For certain example implementations data e.g. at least one key portion at least one value at least one numeral at least one alphanumeric set of characters at least one pointer to at least one key portion at least one permission enabling ascertainment of at least one key portion at least one identification of a mechanism to manipulate data to produce at least a portion of a key a combination thereof etc. gathered from at least one social network may be obtained via at least one retrieval from one or more members of at least one social network of one or more components that are derived from e.g. that are based at least partially on that result from at least one transformation of that result from at least one translation of that result from at least one encoding operation involving that result from at least one partitioning operation involving that are extracted from that are produced via at least one manipulation of a combination thereof etc. at least one private key and that are usable to form via e.g. regeneration concatenation amalgamation interlacing decoding performing an inverse of a derivation described above a transformation a translation a combination thereof etc. the reconstructed key. One or multiple components may be distributed to a single member of a social network. Each component being distributed may be sent to a single member or to multiple members e.g. for redundancy. By way of example but not limitation a cryptographic library of a computer server may obtain data via a network interface or one or more networks to acquire one or more components of a private key from one or members of at least one social network.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for requesting from two or more members of the at least one social network the one or more components that are derived from the at least one private key the two or more members of the at least one social network previously identified by the authorized user as corresponding to a particular level of trust. For certain example implementations one or more components that are derived from at least one private key may be requested from two or more members of at least one social network with the two or more members of the at least one social network previously identified e.g. selected indicated added to a list starred named grouped a combination thereof etc. by an authorized user as corresponding to a particular level of trust e.g. a reliable level an honest level an accessible level a level associated with being capable of keeping confidential information secure a level for members likely to respond to requests for data a level for members likely to respond to requests for data in a timely fashion a combination thereof etc. . Different levels of trust may correspond to different levels of confidentiality importance reliability a combination thereof and so forth. By way of example but not limitation a given level of trust may comprise members that are to be notified if an authorized user s device is compromised members that are to be queried if suspicious activity is detected e.g. to determine if they are aware of any suspicious activity members that are to store at least one component derived from a cryptographic key members that are allowed to view a profile of an authorized user members that are permitted to change a profile of an authorized user members that are permitted to send communications to a social network account of an authorized user some combination thereof and so forth. For example a computer server may request via a network interface or one or more networks that each of one or more members of a particular trust level holding one or more components derived from a private key that are generated by cryptographic library provide such one or more components. One or more members corresponding to a particular trust level may be stored in a social network library with the level of trust being previously granted by an authorized user so as to cause them to be stored in social network library .

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for determining one or more members of the at least one social network from which to obtain the data gathered from the at least one social network the one or more members capable of providing at least one component that is usable to form the reconstructed key. For certain example implementations one or more members of at least one social network from which to obtain the data gathered from the at least one social network may be determined by a server with the one or more members capable of providing e.g. via email via text message via an attachment to an electronic communication via instant messaging via a social media communication such as a post a tweet a pin a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof etc. at least one component e.g. a portion of a key a component derived from a key an identity of a mechanism to reconstruct a key a link or pointer to such a portion component or mechanism some combination thereof etc. that is usable to form a reconstructed key. By way of example but not limitation a computer server may determine one or more members of a social network e.g. a trusted group thereof using a social network library with each of the one or more member members capable of providing at least one component that is usable to form a reconstructed key. Components usable to form a reconstructed key may be created via a cryptographic library such that components e.g. after distribution to social network members can be gathered as gathered data to enable formation of the reconstructed key.

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for determining the one or more members of the at least one social network based at least partially on the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user. For certain example implementations one or more members of at least one social network may be determined e.g. ascertained obtained acquired identified retrieved processed extracted a combination thereof etc. based at least partially on a behavioral fingerprint e.g. relatively static contents such as a listing of trusted social network members and corresponding component s that are usable to form a reconstructed key relatively dynamic contents such as a current alert or notification that certain members may have more information regarding or may be better equipped to handle other contents such as typical usage patterns a combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user. By way of example but not limitation one or more members may be determined by a server from a behavioral fingerprint based at least partially on an identification of a social network or a listing of members thereof that are to be used if a cryptographic key is to be reconstructed. Additionally or alternatively one or more members may be determined from a behavioral fingerprint based at least partially on a current alert or notification which may indicate that a particular social network account is compromised or that certain members of at least one social network are inaccessible e.g. backpacking in the Grand Canyon or recovering from surgery .

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for determining the one or more members of the at least one social network using at least one feature provided by the at least one social network. For certain example implementations one or more members of at least one social network may be determined e.g. ascertained obtained acquired identified retrieved processed extracted a combination thereof etc. using at least one feature e.g. protocol API listing webpage web tab query interface a combination thereof etc. provided by the at least one social network. By way of example but not limitation a server may determine one or more members by utilizing an API or protocol offered by a social network for retrieving a listing of members that are deemed trustworthy by an authorized user of a computing device or that the social network knows has received at least one component that is usable to form a reconstructed key.

Referring now to for certain example embodiments an operation for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device may include an operation for receiving for the behavioral fingerprint at least one indicator corresponding to another device that is associated with the authorized user of the computing device. For certain example implementations a server may receive e.g. via at least one wireless or wired communication via an email an instant message a social network based communication a text message a combination thereof etc. via one or more networks via a network interface some combination thereof etc. for a behavioral fingerprint at least one indicator e.g. a social network based communication such as a tweet post or pin an updated activity notification an alert of a suspicious action a current physical or virtual location some combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. originating from transmitted from propagated through related to use of a combination thereof etc. another device that is associated with an authorized user of a computing device . By way of example but not limitation a server operating to maintain a behavioral fingerprint applicable to a computing device of an authorized user may receive e.g. directly from another device indirectly from another device originating from another device originating from a device in communication with another device a combination thereof etc. one or more indicators that correspond to at least one other device and that are pertinent to behavioral fingerprint and computing device which is associated with at least one same authorized user. For instance a given authorized user may make a purchase in a particular city using another device and at least one indicator of such a purchase may be received by a server .

For certain example embodiments an operation may include an operation for transmitting via the network connection the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user of the computing device responsive at least in part to the at least one indicator corresponding to the other device that is associated with the authorized user of the computing device. For certain example implementations a server may transmit via a network connection such as a network interface or one or more networks a behavioral fingerprint e.g. an update to a behavioral fingerprint a notification for a behavioral fingerprint an alert for a behavioral fingerprint a status of a behavioral fingerprint a current activity or usage for a behavioral fingerprint new or added content for a behavioral fingerprint a combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user of a computing device responsive at least in part to at least one indicator e.g. a social network based communication such as a tweet post or pin an updated activity notification an alert of a suspicious action a current physical or virtual location some combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. originating from transmitted from propagated through related to use of a combination thereof etc. another device that is associated with the authorized user of computing device . By way of example but not limitation a server operating to maintain a behavioral fingerprint applicable to a computing device of an authorized user may receive at least one indicator corresponding to another device and may transmit e.g. to computing device to another server to yet another device to a cloud computer or computing service a combination thereof etc. a change to behavioral fingerprint that is pertinent to computing device responsive at least partially to the received at least one indicator. For instance if a given authorized user makes a purchase in a particular city using another device and a server receives at least one indicator of such a purchase server may transmit a behavioral fingerprint status indicating this purchase. A behavioral fingerprint status indicating a purchase in a particular city may be relevant if for example a computing device of the authorized user is present in a different city and a first user attempts to make a purchase with it.

For certain example embodiments an operation for transmitting via the network connection a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the computing device the behavioral fingerprint providing at least one status of the authorized user with respect to the computing device may include an operation for transmitting via the network connection at least an update to the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user of the computing device. For certain example implementations a server may transmit via a network connection such as a network interface or one or more networks at least an update to e.g. a portion of a change to an addition to an alert for a notification regarding a statistical value related to a usage pattern a current activity a current physical or virtual location a combination thereof etc. a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with an authorized user of a computing device . By way of example but not limitation a server may transmit an update a change a notification an alert a combination thereof etc. for a behavioral fingerprint to a computing device to another device to one or more networks to another server to a cloud computing system to a cloud computing service some combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments an operation for transmitting may include an operation for transmitting via the network connection at least a most recent change to the behavioral fingerprint associated with the authorized user of the computing device. For certain example implementations a server may transmit via a network connection such as a network interface or one or more networks at least a most recent change to a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of a computing device e.g. an alteration to a current status of an authorized user associated with a behavioral fingerprint that is based at least partially on most recently reported information on actions activity usage contact interaction location a combination thereof etc. by an authorized user by a first user by an unauthorized user a combination thereof etc. with respect to at least a computing device or at least one other device . By way of example but not limitation a most recent change or report may originate from a computing device another device a server another server a cloud service a cloud computer or system a public computer an authorized user an unauthorized user of a computing device or another device any combination thereof and so forth. A behavioral fingerprint may provide for example at least a current status e.g. a most recent status a present status a status based at least partially on one or more status updates a status based at least partially on one or more recent status updates a reported status a status based at least partially on one or more present activities or actions a new status a status reflecting a most recent state of affairs a combination thereof etc. of an authorized user.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation that is implemented in one or more machines or articles of manufacture or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuitry ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuitry as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations.

In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

