---

title: Gestural control for quantitative inputs
abstract: A method for value specification in a responsive interface control, the method including: displaying an interface control in a user interface on a touch display device, wherein the interface control is an interactive interface element configured to set an interface value selected from an ordered continuum of values; detecting a shape of a touch gesture input on the interface control on the touch display device; and changing the interface value in response to detecting a change in the shape of the gesture input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904313&OS=08904313&RS=08904313
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08904313
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
Gestural interactions enable users to interact efficiently with touch interfaces often without visual features that consume screen space in the user interface. For example many devices with a touch screen for example allow a user to touch the screen with a finger slide the finger across the screen perform multi touch gestures with more than one finger and other gestural actions to perform a function in the user interface.

In certain devices including smart phones and other mobile devices screen space can be very limited and valuable. Interface controls for controlling aspects of the user interface related to the device operating system and applications within the user interface can take up a substantial portion of the screen space leaving less room for other content and potentially making adjustments to the user interface aspects via the interface controls more difficult.

Embodiments of a system are described. In one embodiment the system is a gestural control system. The system includes a touch display device configured to display an interface control in a user interface wherein the interface control is an interactive interface element configured to set an interface value selected from an ordered continuum of values and a gesture detection engine configured to detect a shape of a touch gesture input on the interface control on the touch display device and change the interface value in response to detecting a change in the shape of the gesture input. Other embodiments of the system are also described.

Other aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrated by way of example of the principles of the invention.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described herein and illustrated in the appended figures could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of various embodiments as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure but is merely representative of various embodiments. While the various aspects of the embodiments are presented in drawings the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by this detailed description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussions of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the description herein that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the indicated embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

While many embodiments are described herein at least some of the described embodiments present a system and method for gestural control for quantitative inputs. More specifically the system is able to detect the shape of the gesture input and modify the interface value corresponding to the interface control in response to changes in the shape of the gesture input. The gesture input may allow for both fine grained and course grained changes to the interface value. In one embodiment the system detects a change in position of the gesture input relative to the interface control and adjusts the gain of the interface value changes in response to the change in position.

In some conventional systems interface controls include visual features in the user interface such as up down buttons roller controls slider widgets and others that allow the user to modify the interface values associated with the interface controls. For devices with small screens such as many mobile devices the visual features for the interface controls can take up a significant amount of screen space. Conversely a system and method that allows the user to modify the interface values for the interface controls without the need for visual features may free up screen space while still providing a simple intuitive way to modify and set the interface values.

In one embodiment the gestural control system is used in conjunction with a device having a touch display device capable of interpreting touch gestures. The touch gestures may be used to perform various actions in the computer system. The computer system may be any device for use with a touch display device such as a smart phone a portable media device a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or other device.

The display device is an input output device configured to display a user interface corresponding to the specific computer system. The computer system may also include other input output devices that allow the user to interact with the user interface . Operations for the gestural control system may be coded into an application programming interface API for the user interface . Alternatively operations for the gestural control system may be coded into an API for a specific application operable in the user interface . The interface control may be displayed in the user interface and is an interactive interface element configured to set an interface value corresponding to some aspect of the user interface or the computer system. The interface value may be selected from an ordered continuum of values. The aspects of the user interface include aspects of components within the user interface including windows browsers widgets or other components. For example the interface control may set a value for a setting corresponding to a particular application in the user interface .

The value controlled by the interface control may be an ordered or numerical value corresponding to or representing the aspect of the user interface . Aspects that may be represented as a continuum of values such as colors may also generally be represented using numerical values. Consequently the interface control may be used to control a variety of aspects of a user interface . The user interface may include an interface control for each aspect of the user interface that may be modified by the user.

In one embodiment the gesture detection engine is configured to modify the interface value for the interface control based on a touch gesture input on the display device . The gesture detection engine detects the shape of the gesture input on the display device and changes the interface value if the shape of the gesture input changes in specific predetermined ways. For example the gesture detection engine may be able to detect that the user performs a right roll or left roll of a finger touching the display device by determining that the shape of the gesture input changes in a manner corresponding to either a right roll or left roll. The gesture detection engine may then modify the interface value according to the type of detected gesture.

The gesture detection engine may also modify the gain of the change in interface value . The gain may determine the rate at which the interface value changes such that the interface value changes in larger or smaller increments. In one embodiment the gesture detection engine is configured to detect a position of the gesture input and to modify the gain due to any detected change of the position of the gesture input relative to the position of the interface control . Thus the gain of the change in interface value may increase or decrease to allow for finer or coarser grained changes in the interface value .

For example if the user first touches the screen with the fingertip flat against the display device and then rolls the finger to the right or left the position and orthography of the fingerprint varies as shown in the present embodiment. The contact area may be comparatively larger when the fingertip is pressed flat against the display device than when the fingertip is rolled to one side. Additionally the shape of the contact area may be thinner when the fingertip is rolled to one side than when the fingertip is pressed flat on the display device in a center position because less of the fingertip is able to touch the display device on the side of the fingertip in a right position or a left position . In other embodiments the gesture action may include gesture actions other than those described herein.

These shape and area changes may be sensed by the gestural control system and used to define the operations performed by the gestural input. In one embodiment the gestural control system captures the shape of the contact area at multiple points on the display device such that the gestural control system is able to interpret the movement of the gesture action.

In one embodiment the gestural control system includes a mapping of contact areas corresponding to different positions of the fingertip when contacting the display device . The contact area of the fingertip may be matched to the mapping for example and the corresponding contact area in the mapping may be selected. The operation corresponding to the matched contact area may then be performed. Other methods of recognizing the shape of the contact area or selecting the appropriate operation may be used.

In the present embodiment the interface control includes a visual artifact such as an icon or bounding box that displays the current setting for the interface value . The interface control may also or alternatively include an optional bar or other indicator that displays the current position of the interface value relative to a range of possible values. If the nature of the presented information being controlled has an inherent range such as a range of colors defined at extremes by different colors or if the presented information is unbounded no bar may be necessary. The bar may be particularly useful when there is a range of values that is not implicit in the information displayed such as for numerical values. The bar may be hidden when the interface control is not currently in an edit mode such that the bar may indicate when the interface control has received a gesture input . The visual artifact may also be hidden until the interface control enters edit mode. The interface control may be any size on the display device .

In other embodiments the interface control may be any ordered value capable of being changed. For example the gestural control system may automatically detect a numerical value displayed as text in a document or application. The numerical value may be altered by the gestural control system in response to a gesture input on the text. The gestural control system may inspect the characters between two blank spaces at the location of the gesture input and determine that the characters correspond to a numerical value. In some embodiments a bounding box may be displayed around the detected numerical value upon entering edit mode to indicate that the numerical value may be changed.

When the user presses a fingertip on the interface control such that the fingertip is flat on the display device the contact area of the fingertip on the display device may appear as shown in . In one embodiment the gestural control system is able to determine that the shape of the contact area corresponds to the shape of a fingertip pressed flat.

The interface control enters edit mode in response to the gesture input . When the interface control is in edit mode the interface value corresponding to the interface control may be modified by performing further gestural actions. The interface control may exit edit mode in response to detecting that the gestural control system is no longer receiving a gestural input for example if the fingertip is no longer touching the display device . Exiting edit mode may set the interface value to the currently selected value.

In one embodiment the user may increase the interface value by rolling the fingertip to the right as shown in . The gestural control system detects the change in shape and recognizes that the change in shape or sequence of shapes corresponds to a right roll of the fingertip. The gestural control system may then increment the interface value according to the configuration of the interface control . For example rolling the fingertip to the right may increment the interface value by one or another fine grained increment based on settings for the interface control . In another embodiment the user rolls the fingertip to the left and the gestural control system decrements the interface value in response to detecting the change in shape .

In one embodiment the interface value may continue incrementing at a predetermined rate as long as the user maintains contact with the right side of the fingertip. If the user removes the fingertip from contacting the display device or if the user rolls the fingertip back to pressing flat against the display device the interface value may stop incrementing. In one embodiment the speed at which the interface value increments may increase if the user holds the fingertip at the right position for a predetermined amount of time. The user may increment the interface value more slowly by rocking the finger back and forth from the flat position to the right position . Alternative embodiments may increment the value at other speeds or using other criteria.

In one embodiment the user is able to modify the gain at which the interface value changes by changing the position of the gesture action on the display device . For example as shown in when the fingertip is in the right position for incrementing the interface value the user may slide the fingertip to the right and away from the interface control to increase the gain at which the interface value is incrementing. This allows the user to increment the interface value faster or in larger steps. When the fingertip is in the left position for decrementing the interface value the user may slide the fingertip to the left and away from the interface control to increase the gain at which the interface value is decrementing. The amount of gain in the change in interface value may be determined by the distance of the contact area from the interface control . The gain may increase as the contact area gets farther from the interface control . In another embodiment the gain may increase a certain amount when the contact area is at least at a predetermined distance from the interface control or for a predetermined amount of time in a right position or a left position .

In one embodiment as shown in when the fingertip is in the right position the user may roll the fingertip to the left position to decrement the interface value from the currently incremented interface value . Conversely when the fingertip is in the left position the user may roll the fingertip to the right position to increment the interface value from the currently decremented interface value . In one embodiment the user may implement fine grained adjustments by rolling to the left or to the right at any time or in any location on the display screen while the interface control is in edit mode. Thus the user may increment or decrement the interface value at any time while the interface control is in edit mode by rolling the fingertip to the right position or the left position respectively.

In one embodiment the gestural control system stored the starting point of the interface value when the interface control enters edit mode. If the user has modified the interface value while the interface is in edit mode the user may reset the interface value to the starting point. In one embodiment this is accomplished by dragging the fingertip across the interface control as in . This action may create a virtual detent that prevents further change of the interface value from the starting point. When the contact area is positioned to the right of the interface control the user may drag the fingertip to the left across the interface control to reset the interface value to the starting point. Conversely when the contact area is positioned to the left of the interface control the user may drag the fingertip to the right across the interface control to reset the interface value to the starting point.

In one embodiment the user maintains the fingertip in the same rotate position i.e. in the right position while dragging the fingertip across the interface control . In some embodiments the contact area may be any shape as the user moves the fingertip across the interface control to reset the interface value to the starting point such that the user may not need to maintain the fingertip in the same rotated un rotated position while swiping the fingertip across the interface control .

After resetting the interface value by swiping the fingertip across the interface control the user may overcome the virtual detent by rolling the fingertip back to the flat or center position . In another embodiment the user overcomes the detent by waiting for a predetermined amount of time after crossing the interface control while in edit mode without performing additional gesture actions. Once the detent has been deactivated the user may then roll the fingertip to the left position as shown in to begin decrementing the value. Conversely for an embodiment in which the user swipes the fingertip across the interface control to the right the user may roll the fingertip to the right position to begin incrementing the value once the detent has been deactivated.

In one embodiment the gestural control system is configured to display the interface control in the user interface on a touch display device . The interface control is any interface element configured to set an interface value selected from an ordered continuum of values. The interactive element may be any feature including a set control or text numeric value which may be changed by the user to set the interface value corresponding to some aspect of the user interface .

The gestural control system receives a touch gesture input on the interface control on the display device . The display device may be part of a mobile device a desktop computer a smart phone a tablet a laptop or other computing device. The gesture input may be any touch gesture on the display device such as a finger gesture using a fingertip on the display device . The system is configured to detect the shape of the gesture input . The system may detect an initial shape of the gesture input on the interface control to begin operating the interface control . For example the system detects the shape of the fingertip of the user when the fingertip is pressed against the display device . The shape may vary depending on the portion of the fingertip that is touching the display device .

The system then changes the interface value in response to detecting a change in the shape of the gesture input . For example the system determines whether the shape change corresponds to a right roll or a left roll. The system may increase the interface value in response to detecting that the change in the shape of the gesture input corresponds to a right roll of the gesture input and the system may decrease the interface value in response to detecting that the change in the shape of the gesture input corresponds to a left roll of the gesture input . For example if the user presses the fingertip flat against the display device on the interface control to enter edit mode and then rolls the fingertip to the right such that the right side of the fingertip is touching the display device the interface value may increment. If the user rolls the fingertip to the left such that the left side of the fingertip is touching the display device the interface value may decrement. When the user removes the gesture input from the display device the system may set the interface value to a current selected value in a range of possible values.

In one embodiment the system is also configured to detect a change in the position of the gesture input for the interface control . The position of the gesture input may change as the user performs the gesture input to change the interface value . The system may modify the gain for changing the interface value based on the position of the gesture input relative to the position of the interface control on the display device . While the interface control is in an edit mode i.e. the gesture input is active the user may move the gesture input toward or away from the interface control . In one embodiment the gain for the change in interface value increases as the gesture input moves farther away from the interface control . If the gesture input moves closer to the interface control the gain decreases. The gain may control either the speed at which the interface value changes or the step sizes at which the interface value changes.

The system may be configured to store a starting point for the interface value when the user first performs an initial gesture input on the interface control to place the interface control in edit mode. The starting point corresponds to the interface value when the initial gesture input is received by the system . If the user changes the interface value and then desires to return to the starting point the user may perform a predetermined gesture that the system recognizes and the interface value is returned to the starting point. The predetermined gesture may be determined by default settings or by the user. In one embodiment the predetermined gesture includes sliding the fingertip across the interface control to the opposite side of the interface control whether from the right or the left side of the interface control .

An embodiment of a gestural control system includes at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus such as a data address and or control bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

It should also be noted that at least some of the operations for the methods may be implemented using software instructions stored on a computer useable storage medium for execution by a computer. As an example an embodiment of a computer program product includes a computer useable storage medium to store a computer readable program that when executed on a computer causes the computer to perform operations including an operation for gesture control of a quantitative input.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operations may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be implemented in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

Embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In one embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore embodiments of the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer useable or computer readable medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include a compact disk with read only memory CD ROM a compact disk with read write CD R W and a digital video disk DVD .

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Additionally network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

In the above description specific details of various embodiments are provided. However some embodiments may be practiced with less than all of these specific details. In other instances certain methods procedures components structures and or functions are described in no more detail than to enable the various embodiments of the invention for the sake of brevity and clarity.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the invention is to be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

