---

title: Generating a document representation using semantic networks
abstract: A method, system and computer program product for developing a semantic network are disclosed. The system includes a server and a client computer, and the method involves: creating a semantic network containing at least one root concept; performing a set of instructions associated with the semantic network, the set of instructions comprising: transmitting information about the semantic network from the client computer to a server; providing information about at least one resource to the server, the at least one resource containing concepts and relations associated with the at least one root concept; receiving information about a modified semantic network from the server; presenting the information about the modified semantic network to a user; receiving a response from the user; based on the response, further modifying the semantic network. The system interactively modifies semantic networks in response to user feedback, and produces personal semantic networks and document use histories.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756185&OS=08756185&RS=08756185
owner: Tagged, Inc.
number: 08756185
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 718 692 filed Mar. 5 2010 entitled REPRESENTING A DOCUMENT USING A SEMANTIC STRUCTURE which claims priority of provisional application 61 158 173 filed Mar. 6 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a post Gutenberg reading experience and in particular to a method of generating a document representation to a related computer program product and to a related system.

The World Wide Web is having a profound impact on humankind. Because information in many forms from many sources is made instantaneously available around the world to anybody with an internet connection our perceptions of space time and knowledge are changing. The internet as we all concede now has profoundly changed the functioning of human societies across the world. At the center of this change is the democratization and globalization of information by way of electronic documents. In this regard the internet of the mid 1990s is likened to the Gutenberg printing press of the Renaissance a profound catalyst in the development of human thought and knowledge.

And the Web continues to evolve from a strict separation of information producers and consumers that communicate with each other using simple wire and message protocols HTTP HTML to communities of information prosumers that exchange information using application programming interfaces APIs known as Web Services. The current state of affairs which is sometimes called the read write Web or Web 2.0 is characterized by the ever present Web as a platform data centrism the use of XML XML Schema as a standard for data exchange between machines a plethora of collaboration models Wikis Folksonomies and rich client technologies AJAX Microformats RSS feeds etc. . It is said that a collective intelligence is embedded in the Web that the growth of the Internet over the last several decades more closely resembles biological evolution than engineering .

However the globalization and democratization of information enabled by the Web poses tremendous challenges for both individual and community. It is not just that the amount of information is overwhelming it is also unstructured and cacophonous. Without a formalism that a machine can understand and without an assignment of semantics information cannot be processed by a machine in any meaningful way leaving Web users drowning in information starving for knowledge . The problem of information overload is quite insidious and forces many people to rely on a remarkably small number of information sources as a coping mechanism.

The goal of the Semantic Web is to enable machine understanding so that information becomes knowledge that this knowledge is understood by both human and machine and that machines talking to machines enhance the human experience on the Web.

A first and far reaching step towards the Semantic Web is the Resource Description Framework RDF an open standard recommended by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C as early as 1999 and revised in 2004. The purpose of RDF is to facilitate knowledge representation and information modeling via directed graphs. The result is that RDF has become an assertion semantic network a product of artificial intelligence work in the 1980s. As such RDF is a form of knowledge representation it allows statements about web resources to be made. Statements take the form of a triple subject predicate object and every element in a statement references either a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or a literal.

RDF replete with syntax but not semantics is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for realizing the Semantic Web. Semantics requires the ability to model the real world to formulate abstractions about entities and their relations. To assist in reaching this goal the W3C recommended OWL Web Ontology Language in 2004. OWL is built upon RDF Schema which in turn is expressed in RDF. There are three OWL variants OWL Lite OWL DL and OWL Full. The three variants provide for increasing expressiveness and commensurately decreasing computational completeness respectively.

While the Semantic Web has made great progress in some problem domains medicine bio informatics life sciences and remains critical in many ways to data and system integration grid computing enterprise application integration it has yet to obtain wide popular acceptance. Lack of acceptance stems from the intrinsic difficulties of implementing the Semantic Web. In particular the formulation and use of knowledge with respect to correctness coherence and completeness is extremely hard for most people. Some argue that knowledge by nature is neither machine tractable nor fully amenable to deductive logic that real world knowledge can never be truly and fully captured that striving towards correctness and completeness of semantics result in overly complex poorly understood and ultimately counter productive systems that shared views are hard to create and that enforcing shared views does more to debase semantics than create informative connections .

The folksonomies of Web 2.0 are not an answer to the inaccessible formalisms of the Semantic Web. Collaborative tagging or social classification provides metadata but this metadata has few or no restrictions. So while it may be true that tags are causing context to explode enabling more sophisticated searching the dearth of rules means lack of structure and organization sparse semantics and little or no enablement of the machine s ability to understand.

The crux of the problem distills to this is there something between folksonomies tag clouds and ontologies formal specifications of conceptualizations that can help the user with machine assistance to function effectively against an overwhelming tide of information on the Web 

Without some sort of formalism machine interaction is not possible with too much formalism human interaction dissipates. One way to decrease the demands of formal knowledge representation is to not insist on sharing knowledge while continuing to share information. Personal knowledge versus shared knowledge on the Web is a more tractable problem. This change in perspective reduces the criticality but does not obviate the need for formal knowledge representation or the utility of ontologies.

With respect to personal knowledge an exceedingly simple elegant and effective way to represent knowledge that is both human and machine understandable is a semantic network. A semantic network is a form of structured data the data comprising concepts and relations between the concepts e.g. in the form of concept relation concept CRC triples. Semantic networks per se i.e. as a topic of research in the field of linguistics are well known in the art.

 Semantic nets were first invented for computers by Richard H. Richens of the Cambridge Language Research Unit in 1956. Concept maps developed by Joseph D. Novak in the 1970s attest to the appropriateness of semantic networks to human learning and understanding. John F. Sowa is credited with research on conceptual graphs and semantic networks as formal knowledge representation in the 1980s. On a technical level RDF and Topic Maps ISO IEC 13250 have been public standards for the representation and interchange of knowledge as semantic networks since the late 1990s.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 263 335 entitled Information Extraction System and Method Using Concept Relation Concept CRC Triples discloses an information extraction system that allows users to ask questions about documents in a database and responds to queries by returning possibly relevant information which is extracted from the documents. In this context concept relation concept triples are built from unstructured text.

US 2008 0133213 entitled Method and System for Personal Information Extraction and Modeling with Fully Generalized Extraction Contexts focuses on concept based extraction and modeling in a way to concisely control both the terms that are being sought and the context in which they are sought. The underlying principle hinges on the pairings of resource context R C and extractor concept X K such that X extractor is an algorithm that identifies the instances of K concept within C context in each resource r in a resource set R.

 i The system requires an a priori model to start. A model is an unordered set of concepts absent the notion of any root or starting concept. The user can manually generate a concept model but better would be an import of a project with a previously defined model meaning concepts and their corresponding extractors. At any time a user can add remove or modify concepts in a model thereby creating a model of personal information.

 ii The relationship between X and K in the underlying principle requires that X have some sort of a priori knowledge of K in order for X to fulfill its goal of K identification. Managing more than one concept at a time requires that boolean operations be used on extractors to create extraction patterns .

 iii The basic modus operandi of the system requires the user to work with concepts in a serial manner when extracting X concept K relevant information from a corpus of documents R C . In order to identify all instances of many concepts at once in a document corpus the user would be obliged to use a priori knowledge to combine extractors through boolean operations .

 iv The primacy of context C makes the overall application document R centric. This is apparent in the statement that one of the key objectives in the system is the identification of all instances of a concept within a document corpus. Hence the document relates to both a method for annotating a set of documents in a model of information and a method of determining a trigger phrase related to the set of documents and defining the set of concepts and corresponding extractors based on the trigger phrase. 

In sum the a priori requirements of this patent application publication US 2008 0133213 and its process of structuring unstructured text into a pre defined model using a generalized technique wielded by the user appear similar in nature to the Message Understanding Conferences MUC on information extraction and template completion. This observation remains true for the case when there is no previously defined model and the application produces a suggestion list of noun phrases from the project s corpus of documents using conventional information extraction techniques lexical parsing N gram analysis and the like .

Although we live in what has been called the post Gutenberg era we have not yet created the tools which allow us to read electronic documents with any more efficiency than their paper counterparts. Indeed the online reading experience is so inferior to the reading experience of printed material that many people print electronic documents that are more than two or three pages in length.

The problems associated with the online reading experience have spawned an industry of dedicated electronic readers. Most of these readers attempt to emulate the physicality of paper especially with respect to layout background lighting font size etc. These readers also have rudimentary searching annotation and navigation abilities. The latest reading devices exploit multi media capabilities. Of course many of these reading features can be implemented by software running on general computing devices. The e reader however is designed to facilitate the human ergonomics of reading a book.

The e reader emphasis on reading as a material activity is inherently limiting it aspires to no more than what is achievable by paper. Such an approach remains rooted in a Gutenberg mindset not at all appropriate in a post Gutenberg world of information where hundreds if not thousands of relevant electronic documents are accessible with the right search request.

The online reading experience therefore is not only subject to form but also substance. It is the volume of information often contradictory and incomplete which challenges our conventional reading skills and habits. In effect the more information that we are exposed to the less we understand. It is the nature of being human and not a machine to have limited working memory and to experience diminishing returns with every new bit of information that we are exposed to.

Presently there are no adequate post Gutenberg tools if any at all. An object of the present invention is to address the above shortcomings. It is an object of the present invention to use semantic networks to represent knowledge most especially personal experience and knowledge and that the availability of said knowledge facilitates human machine collaboration thereby changing how people interact with text in whatever form.

Aspects of the present invention provide an interactive method and system that allows to build a semantic network of personal knowledge from unstructured data.

According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method for developing a semantic network. The method involves 

f. processing said semantic structures at the server for determining a measure of their significance for the semantic network 

h. transmitting information about the modified semantic network from the server to the client computer.

In this manner the semantic network provided initially at the client computer is modified i.e. generally extended by the server and made available to the user at the client computer giving the user the opportunity to further work with the thus modified semantic network.

Preferably the method will be iterative and interactive. To this end the method may comprise the following steps being carried out at the client computer 

In this manner the semantic network is developed interactively in an iterative procedure of human machine communication the network representing both personal experience and knowledge.

In the method information in particular in the form of semantic structures is extracted from so called resources. A resource may comprise any of the following unstructured data structured data and services brokers and agents.

Data may be available locally or in a preferred embodiment via a network. The network may be any wide area network including the Internet. Preferably the data are available in the World Wide Web. The minimum requirement is that the data be accessible to either the client user or the server machine and preferably accessible to both the client user and the server machine . Unstructured data may encompass any kind of text and or non text documents. Structured data may encompass other semantic networks ontologies etc. Services brokers and agents provide data from specific sources upon specific requests.

In one embodiment the step of providing said at least one resource to the server may be executed manually i.e. on the basis of user input . In this case this step comprises 

d3. based on said response transmitting information about the at least one resource from the client computer to the server.

In particular the step of querying the user for said at least one resource may comprise an automated search e.g. a search in the World Wide Web by a known search engine such as the well known Google engine via the Internet or any other automated search in any other limited or open set of resources via any other wide area network to provide suggestions to the user which may optionally be rated by relevance. The user may then select from these suggestions. In other words this step may comprise 

In an alternative embodiment the user does not need to manually specify any resources and relevant resources are determined automatically by the server. In other words the step of providing at least one resource to the server may comprise 

d1 . at the server automatically determining said at least one resource by analyzing said semantic network and

The set of resources may e.g. again be all structured and or unstructured data services brokers and agents available in the World Wide Web or a part thereof and the wide area network may be the Internet.

It goes without saying that the method may encompass giving the user a choice between manual and automatic resource selection.

In the processing step the semantic structures extracted from the resources are investigated with respect to their usefulness and relevance for the concepts and relations already available in the semantic network. This processing step may comprise one or multiple queries to any internal or external knowledge source. In particular this step may comprise 

The digital knowledge source may comprise any of the following an ontology a database a knowledgebase and services brokers and agents accessible through a wide area network.

The semantic network will preferably have a data structure comprising concepts relations between said concepts and concept relation metadata.

In particular concepts and relations may be arranged in the form of concept relation concept CRC triples as they i.e. CRC triples are well known in the art. The concept relation metadata may be specific for the human machine interaction of the present invention. The concept relation metadata enriched metadata may comprise at least one of a numeric weight associated with each concept the weight may be positive or negative in the latter case showing negative affinity to be described below a comment associated with at least one concept or at least one relation a tag for annotating at least one concept an internal identifier for said tag a numeric weight associated with said tag a source indication of each concept user or machine an internal identifier for each concept or relation a timestamp for each concept or relation showing e.g. when the concept or relation was included into the semantic network and a concept similarity directive i.e. a measure how similar further concepts to be related to an existing concept should be. The process of producing concept relation metadata may also be referred to as reification. Given that a CRC triple is a semantic relation reification entails the process of making semantic relations metadata about semantic relations data .

Resources may be represented by a resource structure comprising a unique identifier such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL and resource metadata associated with the resource. Resource metadata is expressed as a semantic network.

The resource metadata may comprise at least one of a source indication of the resource user or machine a reference to all or part of the resource e.g. text portions thereof or pointers to text portions a resource title a numeric weight associated with the resource the weight may be negative in the latter case showing negative affinity an internal identifier for the resource and a timestamp for the resource showing e.g. when the resource was last accessed.

The method may further comprise a step of providing control parameters to the server said control parameters comprising at least one of a limit on new connections to be contained in said modified semantic network a limit on a depth of new connections to be contained in said modified semantic network a concept similarity threshold to be applied in processing semantic structures a limit on a number of new resources from which semantic structures are to be extracted and an absolute limit on the maximum depth of relations in said modified semantic network. Control parameters are captured as semantic relations.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a client computer program product comprising computer program code for controlling one or more processors of a client computer to carry out the following steps 

h. receiving instructions from the user on whether to repeat modification of the semantic network and

In general the client computer program product comprises code for carrying out all those steps of the method of the present invention that are to be carried out by the client computer. The computer program product may be provided in any computer readable form source code machine code or any metacode on any suitable data carrier including traditional data carriers such as diskettes CD ROM DVD ROM flash memory etc. or any volatile or non volatile memory accessible via a wide area network such as the Internet.

c3. based on said response transmitting information about the at least one resource from the client computer to the server.

The product may include code for creating a data structure comprising concepts relations between said concepts and concept relation metadata i.e. code for creating a semantic network with enriched metadata as discussed above.

The product may further comprise code for creating a resource structure for said at least one resource the resource structure comprising a unique identifier and resource metadata associated with the resource as discussed above.

The product may also comprise code for providing control parameters to the server as discussed above.

In yet another aspect of the invention there is provided a server computer program product comprising computer program code for controlling one or more processors of a server to carry out the following steps 

a. receiving information about a semantic network comprising at least one root concept from a client computer 

d. processing said semantic structures for determining a measure of their significance for the semantic network 

In general the server computer program product comprises code for carrying out all those steps of the method of the present invention that are to be carried out by the server. Again the computer program product may be provided in any computer readable form on any suitable data carrier.

In yet another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer program package bundle comprising a client computer program product as defined above and a server computer program product as defined above.

In a further aspect of the invention there is provided a system specifically adapted for carrying out the method of the present invention. Generally speaking the system will comprise a client computer and a server. The client computer comprises a CPU memory an input device such as a keyboard and or a mouse etc. an output device such as a monitor screen and a communication interface for communication with a network such as an Ethernet port or a WLAN facility . The server comprises at least one server computer possibly a plurality of server computers to form a local area network LAN each server computer comprising a CPU memory and a communication interface. Each of the client computer and the server comprise components which will generally be implemented in software being executed on the hardware specifically adapted to carry out certain steps of the method of the present invention. In particular a system for developing a semantic network is provided the system comprising a client computer and a server 

b. a component configured to transmit information about the semantic network from the client computer to the server computer 

d. a component configured to receive information about a modified semantic network from the server computer 

h. a component configured to receive instructions from the user on whether to repeat modification of the semantic network 

j. a component configured to receive information about a semantic network comprising at least one root concept from the client computer 

k. a component configured to receive information about at least one resource from the client computer 

m. a component configured to process said semantic structures for determining a measure of their significance for the semantic network 

n. a component configured to modify the semantic network based on the processed semantic structures and

o. a component configured to transmit information about the modified semantic network to the client computer.

In particular embodiments the server may comprise a plurality of server computers configured to extract said semantic structures from the at least one resource and to process said semantic structures since these steps are relatively intensive on CPU time.

The present invention addresses a profound problem epistemology and the Web. How is one to understand and work with a global ungoverned incalculable exponentially growing mass of semi structured and unstructured data Is it the Semantic Web 

The Semantic Web is an open architecture to express knowledge in increasingly sophisticated ways it does not govern what knowledge will be constructed nor by whom. In fact the Semantic Web is more about epistemological evolution than it is about intelligent design of the many small islands of knowledge ontologies the good will be separated from the not so good by laws of natural selection. Because of the non existence of absolute knowledge the Semantic Web is forced to be complex and intricate. And if everything is relative then one of the most compelling problems to solve for shared and organized knowledge is trust.

A compelling alternative to shared knowledge is personal knowledge. Personal knowledge alleviates the need for a priori models rigorous formalism and knowing what to do about the trust problem. But in order for a personal knowledge approach to succeed in the face of information that is overwhelming without structure and highly amenable to change the human has vital need of the machine. To be absolutely clear in order for the personal knowledge approach to succeed human and machine must collaborate in co dependent fashion seamlessly. In the large scheme of things the successful articulation of a protocol for human machine interaction to exchange and acquire personal knowledge is as all encompassing important as the Semantic Web is for shared knowledge.

The present invention considers the semantic network as the sine qua non for human machine interaction. A semantic network allows both human and machines to add knowledge in the form of triples subject predicate object concept relation concept . When adding a new knowledge triple to a semantic network both human and machine may be allowed to weight the significance of concepts comment on the concepts and annotate the concepts with tags. Tags are text expressions which embellish the meaning of a concept. They too are weighted by their semantic contribution or significance to a concept.

The present invention therefore allows each concept and relation to have enriched semantic metadata the source of the concept user or machine a numerical weight to define the significance of a concept a system generated unique identifier and timestamp unstructured text for comments notes from the user or information extraction fragments from the machine and a set of tags each of which is weighted and identified as being either human or machine generated. Metadata is expressed as semantic relations in the semantic network in a process which may be referred to as reification.

Preferably rules of human machine interaction do not allow the machine to delete a concept from the semantic network. A machine can modify a concept by changing its weight or by adding tags which provide further context to a concept. In general however the machine is not permitted to override human provided semantic metadata it can only add it to it.

A numeric weight is not the only measure of concept significance in the semantic network. The importance of a concept also derives from its position in the semantic network specifically proximity to the root concept the number of connections emanating from the concept links out and the number of connections pointing to the concept links in . All these things provide for conceptual affinity meaning attractiveness towards making new connections.

The human machine protocol also allows for conceptual dislike or conceptual unattractiveness i.e. negative affinity. Conceptual dislike which is a negative weight assigned to a concept prohibits the machine from making any new connections along a particular conceptual path. In such a manner the user guides the machine towards semantic relevance. For example if the root concept or major focus of a semantic network is financial investment a user might assign a negative value to the concept credit default swaps in order to exclude credit default swaps from being a consideration in an investment strategy.

The machine invokes a conceptualization process in order to add new connections to a semantic network of personal knowledge. The resources from which the conceptualization process draws upon can either be generated by the machine or specified by the user. Resources for conceptualization may be identified by a well formed Uniform Resource Locator URL for remote access. In the human machine interaction protocol resources like concepts may have enriched metadata attribution of resource to user or machine reference to all or part of the resource title of the resource human or machine generated numeric weight to indicate significance of the resource system generated unique identifier and timestamp a provision for user or machine comments.

Human machine interaction allows for a resource to be assigned a negative value meaning that all concepts found in the resource will have conceptual unattractiveness. Continuing from the above example if a document with a negative value not only refers to credit default swaps but also to associated concepts like credit debt obligations credit loan obligations etc. then all these concepts would be considered inappropriate to the construction of a semantic network on financial investment at least for that user.

For every step in the interaction between human and machine the present invention also allows the human element the possibility of moderating the machine expansion of the semantic network. An exchange between human and machine can be restricted either by an arbitrary limit on new connections and or the depth of new connections. Here depth is defined to be the number of arcs or edges of a new concept to an existing concept in the semantic network. The greater the depth the more freedom the machine has with respect to adding new knowledge per interaction between human and machine.

The ability to moderate the machine expansion of a semantic network for personal knowledge per human machine exchange is fundamental to the human machine collaboration model. It enables the user to acquire machine generated knowledge in piecemeal or stepwise fashion with the opportunity to modify the semantic network after every machine invocation. The user can make repeated requests to the machine until no more new connections can be made. In other instances say for certain topic domains and or a particular set of resources the machine could be granted a much greater degree of freedom for semantic network extension making all possible connections say in one invocation.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of generating a document representation. The method includes receiving into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information the system comprising a server and a client computer producing in response to each of the at least one sentence a system storable tree comprising a plurality of tree elements and grammatical relations between the tree elements each of the tree elements indicating a part of speech contained within the each sentence producing in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures may include three the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree and storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource.

Producing in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures may include three the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree may include producing one or more Resource Description Framework RDF statements comprising RDF elements. Storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource may include storing the one or more RDF statements in association with one or more connections between common ones of the RDF elements. The method may further include receiving as user input into the memory a root concept and associating the root concept with the resource. The method may further include presenting at the client computer information about the set of one or more semantic networks receiving a response from the user and based on the response modifying the set of one or more semantic networks including augmenting the semantic network with metadata. Presenting at the client computer information about the set of one or more semantic networks may include presenting a proposed fact comprising at least one of the one or more semantic structures. Receiving a response from the user may include receiving user input selected by the user from the group consisting of an acceptance of the proposed fact and a rejection of the proposed fact. Receiving into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information may include receiving at least one of unstructured data structured data and services brokers and agents. Receiving into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information may include at the client computer querying a user for the resource at the client computer receiving a response from the user about the resource based on the response transmitting information about the resource from the client computer to the server. The step of querying the user for the resource may include carrying out an automated search in a set of resources available via a wide area network rating results of the search for their relevance to the root concept presenting the user with the rated results and querying the user for a selection from the rated results. The method may further include at the server automatically determining a further resource by analyzing the set of one or more semantic networks accessing the further resource by the server and based on the further response modifying the set of one or more semantic networks. The step of automatically determining a further resource may include carrying out an automated search in a set of resources available via a wide area network and receiving results from the automated search at the server. The method may include sending at least one query to a digital knowledge source receiving at least one response from the digital knowledge source and processing the one or more semantic structures based on the response. The digital knowledge source may include at least one of an ontology a database a knowledgebase and services brokers and agents accessible through a wide area network. Storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource may include storing metadata in association with the one or more semantic structures. Storing metadata in association with the one or more semantic structures may include storing as semantic relations at least one of a numeric weight associated with at least one the tree element a comment associated with the at least one tree element a comment associated with at least one the connection a tag for annotating the at least one tree element an identifier for the tag a tag numeric weight associated with the tag a source indication of the at least one tree element an identifier for the at least one tree element an identifier for the at least one connection a timestamp for the at least one tree element a timestamp for the at least one connection and a concept similarity directive. Receiving into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information may include storing in the memory a unique identifier for the resource and storing resource metadata in association with the unique identifier. Storing resource metadata in association with the unique identifier may include storing as a semantic relation at least one of a source indication of the resource a reference to all or part of the resource a resource title a resource numeric weight associated with the resource and a timestamp for the resource. The method may further include providing control parameters to the server the control parameters expressed as semantic relations and comprising at least one of a limit on new connections to be contained in the set of one or more semantic networks a limit on a depth of new connections to be contained in the set of one or more semantic networks a concept similarity threshold to be applied in processing the one or more semantic structures a limit on a number of new resources from which the one or more semantic structures are to be extracted and an absolute limit on the maximum depth of relations in the set of one or more semantic networks. The method may further include presenting at the client computer an output representation comprising at least one of a concept map a facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text. Presenting at the client computer at least one of a concept map facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text may include determining link counts of the one or more connections producing in response to the one or more semantic structures and the link counts facts and fact weights associated with the facts respectively and presenting the facts in an order determined in accordance with the fact weights. Presenting at the client computer at least one of a concept map facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text may include receiving as user input a summary length determining link counts of the tree elements and selecting the summary length number of the at least one sentences having highest the link counts. The method may further include receiving a user selection of one or more keywords and wherein selecting the summary length number of the at least one sentences having highest the link counts may include selecting the summary length number of the at least one sentences in accordance with the keywords. Presenting at the client computer at least one of a concept map facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text may include determining link counts of the tree elements producing keyword weights associated with words of the at least one sentence in accordance with the link counts selecting among the words one or more keywords in accordance with the keyword weights and presenting the keywords. Presenting at the client computer at least one of a concept map facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text may include presenting an alphabetical listing of the keywords the keywords being hyperlinked to occurrences of the keywords within at least one of the facts listing and the resource. The method of claim may further include storing in the memory a document use history comprising indications of user input received in association with the resource and indications of output representations presented at the client computer in association with the resource. Storing in the memory a document use history comprising indications of user input received in association with the resource and indications of output representations presented at the client computer in association with the resource may include storing the indications of user input received from a plurality of the users and the indications of output representations presented at a plurality of the client computers associated with the users and producing statistical data in response to the document use history.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for generating a document representation the system comprising a server and a client computer. The system includes means for receiving as user input into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information means for producing in response to each of the at least one sentence a system storable tree comprising a plurality of tree elements and grammatical relations between the tree elements each of the tree elements indicating a part of speech contained within the each sentence means for producing in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures comprises three of the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree and means for storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource.

The system may further include means for modifying the set of one or more semantic networks in response to user input. The system may further include means for automatically determining a further resource. The system may further include means for producing each of a concept map facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text. The system may further include means for producing a document use history.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for generating a document representation the system comprising a server and a client computer. The system includes a component configured to receive into a memory of the system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information a component configured to produce in response to each of the at least one sentence a system storable tree comprising a plurality of tree elements and grammatical relations between the tree elements each of the tree elements indicating a part of speech contained within the each sentence a component configured to produce in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures comprises three of the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree and a component configured to store in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a kit of computer program modules comprising computer program code for controlling one or more processors of at least one of a server and a client computer to carry out the following steps receiving into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information the system comprising a server and a client computer producing in response to each of the at least one sentence a system storable tree comprising a plurality of tree elements and grammatical relations between the tree elements each of the tree elements indicating a part of speech contained within the each sentence producing in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures may include three the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree and storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource. The kit of computer program modules may include computer program code for controlling on or more processors of at least one of a server and a client computer to carry out steps further defined herein above.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the following description of embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures and claims.

The present invention s focus includes the capture of the user reading experience based on the various forms of document decomposition and re composition. In turn the user reading experience capture is used by machine intelligence to further improve the user reading experience. The system and method involves the application of novel embodiments of technology to electronic documents that are manipulated into forms amenable to information processing by a variety of computing devices.

An application programming interface enables a client server programming model whereby any number of different client implementations and any number of different server implementations are possible provided that the API contracts are fulfilled. presents a preferred physical embodiment of the present invention. The fundamental human and machine elements communicate through client and web server respectively. Communication takes place via the Internet or alternatively any other type of wide area network WAN . Essentially both human and machine must have comparable access to resources. This is the case for example on the World Wide Web . Resources can be in the form of documents or unstructured data services agents and brokers in the programmable web and or structured open data . The ability of the machine to contribute to personal human knowledge depends upon its capabilities. Many of the steps outlined in are both computationally and memory intensive requiring access to large amounts of supporting data. In short harnessing the intelligence of the web is a complex undertaking suggesting a distributed parallel computing approach. Hence in the present example a web server is merely to give the machine presence on the Web. Behind the web server is an array of servers for parallel computation and network access to internal and external knowledge sources such as ontologies databases DB and knowledgebases KB in box or services brokers and agents in box in order to deal in programmatic fashion with similar entities in the World Wide Web environment to carry out web crawls on unstructured text and or perform SQL or SPARQL requests on structured data. The client web server server and knowledge sources may be implemented as any computing device such as a general purpose computer microcomputer minicomputer mainframe computer distributed network for computing functionally equivalent discrete hardware components etc. and any combination thereof for example.

In an exemplary embodiment the client implementation may take the form of a browser plug in a possible embodiment thereof to be described below. The browser plug in allows the user to 

In an exemplary server implementation the server implementing the machine side of human machine interaction provides capabilities to 

The exemplary server side embodiment of the present invention effecting machine behavior consists of the following components 

The human machine interaction literally requires the machine to be able to read and understand text attributing significance to important concepts. This must be done without restricting the user to specific knowledge domains without circumscribing the user s personal knowledge and without confining knowledge acquisition to a small homogeneous set of resources. This requires that traditional information extraction championed by Message Understanding Conferences give way to open information extraction 01E a novel extraction paradigm that facilitates domain independent discovery of relations extracted from text and readily scales to the diversity and size of the Web corpus .

Even though the embodiment of the present invention uses open information extraction techniques it is not an open information extraction 01E system.

 The sole input to an OIE system is a corpus and its output is a set of extracted relations. An OIE system makes a single pass over its corpus guaranteeing scalability with the size of the corpus. Open Information Extraction from the Web Michele Banko et. al.

An OIE system is biased towards web crawling. The present invention uses such OIE techniques to create semantic structures with little need for a priori knowledge.

Human machine interaction to build personal knowledge is collaborative and requires memory of previous steps as well as statements of current intent. The implication is that the human and machine need to adjust as personal knowledge expands and is refined.

Upon receiving the machine enhanced semantic network and resource list the user either accepts or rejects some or all of the machine s proposals step . The accepted proposals are made part of the user s personal knowledge. This user approved semantic network can be sent right back to the machine step permitting the machine to make new semantic connections to the just approved connections. graph D illustrates the next step machine expansion of the semantic network showing the resource list as unchanged. It is critical to note that the user is given stepwise control of the machine workings. Stepwise processing can proceed until the use is satisfied with what has been built by the machine or the machine exhausts all possible proposals given the current resource list steps .

In the interaction with a machine the user can at any time browse and search the web step add or remove documents from the resource list step add remove modify concepts and relations step . All this information is recorded graph F and transferred to the machine step . This sharing of intention enables the machine to expand personal knowledge in the direction set by the user. graph G shows the machine expanded semantic network having connections to new and existing concepts and avoiding new connections to concepts assigned negative affinity circles with crosses . The process steps repeats until the user reaches a level of personal knowledge that is valuable to both learning and understanding.

Because the present invention encompasses that personal knowledge be exchanged between human and machine some degree of knowledge representation is required. A semantic network is an appropriate choice. It not only has the simplicity and utility desired by most users but underpins more sophisticated models of knowledge representation the Semantic Web being a case in point. The present invention therefore allows users to not only acquire personal intellectual capital as in make me smarter but to disseminate or connect personal knowledge with publicly shared knowledge bases and services.

A key benefit of the present invention is that machines can help humans extract and summarize information from unstructured text. The insight comes from the realization that machines can vastly reduce the human effort when free of the burdens associated with generating public formal correct absolute knowledge. One observation is that if human guided machine generated personal knowledge is relatively effortless the barriers to sharing knowledge are reduced. Hence over time the greatest contribution of the present invention might be the bottom up dissemination of structured personal knowledge towards the grand vision of the World Wide Semantic Web.

Personal knowledge formally represented as a semantic network and expressed in a public standard format like RDF and Topic Maps lends itself to many different applications. One application is conceptual search based on a collection of documents provided that the documents can be distilled to a semantic network that is human machine generated. Another application is the invocation of web services using semantics. Users can use human directed machine generated product descriptions to shop on sites like amazon.com and ebay. Semantic networks facilitate comparison allowing personal knowledge to be tested and improved against external knowledge. User documents can be converted to semantic networks with the assistance of a machine and then expanded upon by the dynamics of the present invention. In short there is no limit to the utility of formally represented personal knowledge when it can be understood and executed on the Web.

The above described screenshots only illustrate the most basic steps of human machine communication in this implementation of the present invention. However the user has a variety of possibilities to further influence machine behavior and to obtain additional information.

In particular it may be possible for the user to define and or edit resource properties such as resource title resource weight significance e.g. from very useful or I like it a lot to totally useless or I do not like it at all the URL of the resource and or the resource text. In addition the user may view internal information such as an internal resource path resource type source USER or MACHINE a unique resource ID and resource timestamp. The user may also add comments for each resource. These functionalities may be implemented e.g. through a pop up window accessible through a context menu from the main browser screen.

Furthermore the human machine experience may be parameterizable by setting user preferences. This may e.g. affect the display of elements with unattractedness or negative affinity display of relevance to search results concept highlighting selection of search engines and the specification of export formats etc. In addition a number of parameters which control or direct machine behavior and subsequently the human machine interaction experience may be influenced by the user. In particular the user can specify 

vi. the number of new resources that can be discovered by the machine from 0 to some predefined maximum 

vii. a restriction on the maximum depth of relations from 1 to some predefined maximum whereby new connections are converted into a term set for existing concepts in the semantic network.

Furthermore the user may have the possibility to manipulate concepts in the semantic network of personal knowledge. By the way of example the user might be able to remove any concept identify it as unattractive and not worth building on collapse the concept into tags and so on.

For each concept there may be enriched metadata supporting the concept some of which might be available to be modified by the user. Some elements of concept metadata include source USER or MACHINE weight or significance unique identifier user and machine comments associated tags and context. Also tags may have metadata some of which are user modifiable. Metadata directs machine behavior. Tags include source information user or machine and weight.

Instead of the manner shown in concepts may also be displayed in other appropriate manners and the user may preferably select between such different display options. As an example the user might choose to see concepts with incoming and outgoing connections and assigned weights. All columnar information may be available to be sorted in order to work effectively with concepts. Alternatively the semantic network might be displayed as a set of propositions i.e. concept relation concept triples. The semantic network may also be displayed without relations thereby generating a form of conceptual hierarchy. Concepts are then complemented only by user and or machine generated tags.

The user interface may also allow the human to create a new semantic network from a concept in an existing semantic network by extracting any concept to a new topicmark . This will set the so identified concept as the root of the new semantic network and cause said concept to be highlighted appropriately when the original semantic network is displayed. Instead of a concept also a tag can be elevated as a root concept in a new semantic network of personal knowledge.

Each semantic network established in this manner may be exported in different formats or representations e.g. in a configurable HTML format for external use.

From the above description it will be apparent that the invention is not restricted to the above described preferred embodiment and that a large number of other embodiments are possible.

The present invention addresses the info glut problem from a personal not a collective or shared perspective to use semantic networks to enable human machine interaction to premise the dynamics of the system from the human side on concept map theory and the ability of the machine to work within this setting to reduce the burden of formalism by using open information extraction techniques on Web documents rather than the information extraction approach marked by Message Understanding Conferences to expand and annotate personal knowledge by harnessing the intelligence of the Web to automate the process of conceptualization through knowledge and intents defined by the user.

For the user the benefits of human machine cognition towards the construction and expansion of personal knowledge are many. Most importantly semantic networks wrapped as concept maps are a succinct way to express knowledge. They contribute to not only meaningful learning but are also instrumental in idea generation and creativity. This is of great consequence to the knowledge worker who to stay competitive is required to constantly replenish and increase his or her intellectual capital . With the assistance of a machine the user is now able to extract relevant conceptual structures succinctly formulated as concept maps from an immense volume of information. The machine drawing upon the wisdom of the crowd richness of the Web relieves the user from the manual effort of identifying and annotating the significant concepts and their relationships and the implications of concepts not quite apparent in unstructured data. This is no small advantage for the user because much time and effort is wasted in note taking when the significance of what to note is not apparent until much of the information has been processed.

An increase in personal intellectual capital with a reduced expenditure in time and effort is not the only benefit. Semantic networks is an underlying technology that supports more advanced knowledge representation schemes as RDF supports the Semantic Web. Hence semantic networks are not only useful for representing personalized idiosyncratic knowledge but also for preparing the way towards the integration of personal knowledge into more formal knowledge schemes like ontologies in whole or in part. In such a manner personal and collective intellectual capital could merge to the mutual benefit of each. This would be particularly true within the corporate enterprise.

i this personal knowledge is exchanged between human and machine as a semantic network the semantic network is not used to build a knowledgebase to support Who What Where When Why How queries against documents 

ii documents and their selections are not the central focus of the present invention but simply the raw material from which machines can posit new personal knowledge 

iii personal knowledge construction is a collaboration between human and machine whereby users influence the direction and volume of knowledge acquisition 

iv access to various Web resources are used to help determine what concepts are significant to the semantic network that is representing the user s personal knowledge 

v the semantic network representing the user s personal knowledge once it is created in a process of human machine interaction is an entity that is abstracted and independent of the original unstructured text.

i relies upon semantic networks as a form of knowledge representation that is both human and machine understandable

ii uses a model of learning and creativity based on concept map theory to enable an inductive and deductive discovery system through semantic networks

v exploits semantic networks as a way integrate with more formalized expressions of knowledge such as ontologies

vi formulates the increase and replenishment of personal knowledge as a joint collaboration between user and machine

xi uses open information extraction as opposed to MUC style approaches in order to generate of concept relation concept triples without a predefined model

xiii references documents and text selections as raw material from which humans and machines can posit new personal knowledge but does not make documents the central focus

xiv infers context from the personal knowledge represented by the semantic network not the document set

xv because concept relation concept triples are generated by a conceptualization process does not need to have an a priori model

It is clear that semantic networks whether as concept maps or topic maps are capable of capturing rich conceptualizations thereby underpinning knowledge management and contributing to intellectual capital. Various aspects of novelty of the present invention relate to the use of semantic networks in human and machine collaboration to acquire knowledge. The core realization is that knowledge acquisition for personal knowledge has boundaries and dynamics that are different for shared or common knowledge that knowledge at a fundamental level has no absolutes but is an ever evolving network of relationships. The aspects of novelty of the present invention when compared to other systems in this domain such as EXTENDER EXtensive Topic Extender from New Data Exploring Relationships see Leake D. B. Maguitman A. Reichherzer T. 2003 Topic Extraction and Extension to Support Concept Mapping Proceedings of the Sixteenth International Florida Artificial Intelligence Conference FLAI RS St. Augustine Fla. AAAI Press stem not only from the human machine dialogue and enriched semantic metadata for semantic networks but from open information extraction techniques that cull concepts and their relations from Web documents to the use of the Web beyond the invocation of search engines specifically application programming interfaces which make the collective intelligence of the Web accessible.

Variations of embodiments and further embodiments of the present invention are described herein below with reference to . Such variations and further embodiments relate to post Gutenberg tools for enhancing and capturing the user reading experience. In particular a system for generating a document representation the system comprising a server and a client computer includes means for receiving as user input into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information means for producing in response to each of the at least one sentence a system storable tree comprising a plurality of tree elements and grammatical relations between the tree elements each of the tree elements indicating a part of speech contained within the each sentence means for producing in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures comprises three of the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree and means for storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource. The system may further include means for modifying the set of one or more semantic networks in response to user input means for automatically determining a further resource means for producing each of a concept map facts listing a text summary a tag cloud an index and an annotated text and means for producing a document use history.

Prior to executing step of the method the system is operable in at least some embodiments to receive as input unstructured text which includes one or more natural language sentences and or information expressible as one or more natural language sentences . In such embodiments the method includes processing the submitted information to separate presentation information thereof from content thereof in the form of one or more natural language sentences . The method further includes producing a sequential ordering of sentences and producing metadata collected from presentation markup for example header information font information hyperlinks associated with the sentences . The entire set of sentences is submitted to a program module entitled a Named Entity Coreferencer whereby executing this program module causes the system to identify related noun terms in the body of the document or other submitted information.

As shown in step includes using natural language processing techniques to construct a syntax tree from the natural language sentence . The syntax tree includes exemplary nodes representing various part of speech constituents defined in accordance with a specifiable annotation scheme. For example illustrates the abbreviation S representing clausal parts of speech NP representing a noun phrase part of speech and VP representing a verb phrase part of speech. The links represent grammatical relationships between pairs of connected nodes . In at least some embodiments the syntax tree is or forms part of a Penn Tree Bank which is a term generally known in the art to refer to a collection of syntax trees such as the syntax tree . The construction of the syntax tree in step may involve known approaches and algorithms in conjunction with novel aspects of the present invention described and illustrated herein. In general the system is operable to produce one or more syntax trees in response to each natural language sentence .

The transformation of the natural language sentence to the syntax tree by step precedes the step in which in particular exemplary instances involves converting a complex sentence comprised of multiple clauses into a number of simple clauses including where subjects and or objects are determined by the system to be the same.

At step in in general the system converts the syntax tree into a set of simple clauses by using natural language techniques and graph traversals which in typical circumstances may be complicated graph traversals. It is generally considered in the prior art to not be possible to derive simple clauses without there being a machine understanding of the part of speech constituents of a sentence. As shown in each simple clause consists of three elements subject predicate or verb phrase and object.

In step of the simple clauses are converted into semantic relations such as the RDF Resource Description Framework statements . Each RDF statement consists of three elements a subject predicate or verb phrase and object. These three elements together may also be referred to as a CRC concept relation concept triple a RDF triple subject verb object semantic relation and other related terms. The RDF graph shown in includes RDF elements . Step preferably includes storing the RDF graphs in memory of the system such as by storing the RDF graphs in a database of the system. Storing the RDF graphs preferably includes storing related metadata in association with the RDF graphs . Metadata is expressed as a semantic relation that in turn operates on a semantic relation. The step of producing metadata may be referred to as reification which step may be performed in accordance with the prior art.

In at least some embodiments of the present invention executing step includes performing a process of pronominal anaphora resolution to determine semantic relations between pronouns and contextually related antecedents. Preferably performing the process of pronominal anaphora resolution is in conjunction with results obtained from Named Entity Coreferencing. Executing step further includes in some embodiments determining by morphological analysis of the system the base form of each word in each simple clause and determining by the system a set of synonyms such as semantic meaning synonyms for example associated with each word in each simple clause .

The RDF statements facilitate a process of conceptualization whereby concepts of sufficient semantic similarity are identified by the system as being common. Conceptualization algorithms of embodiments of the present invention can be based on an existing model of knowledge on various taxonomies or dictionaries the use of subsumption when invoking ontological knowledge symbol or string comparison other similar techniques or any combination thereof for example. Conceptualization may or may not include a priori knowledge of various levels of sophistication and complexity. The conceptualization process is based on an estimation of semantic similarity between various subjects various objects and between the various subjects and objects associated with the RDF statements . The result of step is a RDF graph which may be considered to have the form of a semantic network. By way of example the two RDF statements shown in are connected by connections at their respective RDF elements representing their respective subjects to form the RDF graph shown in .

Still referring to the system is operable to produce one RDF graph for each natural language sentence of the document . Furthermore the system is operable to repeat steps and for each natural language sentence of the submitted information.

Still referring to the system is operable to form connections or links between RDF elements associated with different RDF graphs so as to produce a number of semantic networks . For example the system is operable in at least some embodiments to determine semantic similarity between RDF elements and to produce connections between common RDF elements having sufficient semantic similarity therebetween. For a typical document the number of semantic networks is less than the number of RDF graphs associated with the document and the average size of each semantic network is typically larger than the average size of the RDF graphs for example.

By way of example relating to if the natural language sentence is Einstein was a theoretical physicist and an author step of the method results in a first simple clause consisting of the subject Einstein predicate was and object a theoretical physicist and a second simple clause consisting of the subject Einstein predicate was and object an author . A first RDF statement represents as RDF elements using RDF notation the subject Einstein predicate was and object a theoretical physicist and a second RDF statement represents as RDF elements using RDF notation the subject Einstein predicate was and object an author . The subject Einstein is common to both RDF statements and therefore connected by executing step of the method to produce the RDF graph in which respective subjects of the first and second exemplary RDF statements are connected by the connection . Continuing this example with reference to the document may by way of example include the sentence and a further sentence Theoretical physicists employ mathematical models to explain natural phenomena. The subject of this further sentence namely Theoretical physicists is in common with the object type RDF element of the first exemplary RDF statement associated with the sentence in this example and thus are connected by executing step to form a single semantic network larger than the first exemplary RDF statement alone. In at least some embodiments it is not necessary for two RDF elements to be identical for such RDF elements to be common such that a connection is made therebetween. The system is operable to make a connection in accordance with a probability of correctness. To do so the system is operable to select two RDF elements associate semantic metadata such as semantic metadata identifying a same as type relationship with the two RDF elements determine a probability of similarity of the same as relationship determine whether such probability of similarity is equal to or greater than a threshold and to create a connection between the two RDF elements if the probability of similarity is equal to or greater than the threshold. The threshold is user controllable such that user input received from the user can vary the value of the threshold from a default value thereby advantageously providing interactivity. Further connections may further enlarge this single semantic network and other semantic networks illustrated in . In accordance with the present invention small semantic networks can be connected with other semantic networks to form larger semantic networks .

Still referring to the result of conceptualization processes by the system at the step including in some embodiments steps of the method of is the set of semantic networks for the document . This set may be thought of as many small islands of connected RDF statements each island forming a semantic network for any given document . The number and sizes of the semantic networks in the set of semantic networks is dependent on the particular content of the document. Furthermore the system is operable to apply the method to each sentence in the document . Since the document includes a collection of natural language sentences the method is shown in as including the method of and also including the step of constructing the set of semantic networks each semantic network being formed by inter connecting semantic networks produced on the basis of the content of the document . These semantic networks represent the result of a transformation of unstructured text i.e. the content of the document to a well defined data structure i.e. the collection composed of the semantic networks . The set serves as a form of knowledge representation associated with the document .

The set of semantic networks can be used by the system to construct any one or more of a multiple number of output representations of the document content. This allows the original text of the document to be reconstituted into different multivariate forms. In some embodiments the system is operable to construct different output representations by executing graph theoretic algorithms. In such embodiments the system is operable to produce the output representations such that each output representation advantageously enhances the user reading experience thereby advantageously facilitating the acquisition and expansion of personal knowledge. There are many different kinds of output representations including but not restricted to the concept map facts listing text summary tag cloud index and annotated text . In some embodiments the system is operable to produce multi media presentations not shown . The facts listings includes in at least some embodiments weighted facts searchable facts linked facts and any combination thereof including facts which are weighted searchable and linked. The summaries are user configurable allowing for the specification of a topic of interest for the summary the strictness with respect to said user defined topic of interest the size of the summary and so on. The index is in some embodiments presented in a back of the book style whereby each index entry is associated with a set of semantic relations. The annotated text is in some embodiments includes the highlighting and mouseover annotation of original text based on the semantic networks derived from the document and the semantic networks derived from user input. . The selection of each output representation is user controllable.

The system in at least some embodiments is operable to present the output representations at the client computer thereby advantageously facilitating interactive processes for human machine collaboration in the generation and modification of semantic networks. The system is operable in such embodiments to receive user input specifying a user selection of a particular output representation to .

The respective methods of constructing each output representation differ from each other and the results of performing each method of constructing each output representation differs. Preferably however each of the methods of constructing a respective output representation for a given document involves system processing of a common data structure namely the set of the semantic networks . Because the underlying data structure i.e. the set is the same for any given document the different perspectives afforded by each output representation for a given document are advantageously mutually reinforcing. Each new output representation of a document is mutually complementary and connected. Stated otherwise the user experience with respect to each document output representation is aggregative such that the user experience with respect to one document output representation can advantageously enhance the user experience with respect to a subsequent document output representation thereby advantageously facilitating efficacy of human effort to comprehend the document content. Of the many document output representations possible it is the user that defines which subset of output representations to experience at any given time. These decisions can be based on user biases the breadth and difficulty of document content reading objectives etc. and other human factors or any combination thereof for example. The different output representations advantageously facilitate reading efficiency and comprehension by the user. Each output representation advantageously permits a style of reading selectable the user according to the user s information needs.

The system is operable to execute one or more user interface program modules such as executing one parameterized user interface in respect of each output representation . The functionality of the system permitting the user to control by user input including user input specifying selections of output representations and parameter values the selection and presentation of each output representation advantageously provides means of determining user intention as represented by the user input and advantageously provides means of distributing and incorporating this knowledge into machine intelligence.

Each output representation of a document advantageously provides its own unique facility for permitting the user to personalize the user s reading experience. The control given to the user by executing user interface modules of the system can include but are not restricted to searching navigation via key concept hyperlinks specification of user defined topics of interest selecting various lengths and keyword associations of document summaries slidebars to control information coverage by specifying system parameters drilling down into unstructured text to find context and others.

By way of example in respect of some embodiments of the present invention presenting to a user the concept map includes presenting to the user one or more proposed facts and prompting the user to accept or reject the presented proposed facts. The system is operable to receive as user input the user s selection of acceptance or rejection of each given proposed fact and to modify the set of the semantic networks in accordance with such user selection. In at least some embodiments the system is operable to receive as user input a weight for associating with a proposed fact. For example the weight may be expressed as a number between 1 and 10 where 1 indicates user rejection of the proposed fact and any positive number in the permitted range represents user acceptance of the proposed fact with 10 representing a greatest level of acceptance.

In some embodiments a concept map is a document representation of a semantic network of personal knowledge. Of all the various document representations the concept map is the one which most explicitly reveals semantic relations. Personal semantic networks may refer or connect to other semantic networks. In particular a personal semantic network will make connections to semantic networks derived from a document . These connections are themselves expressed as semantic relations. Some semantic relations will be statements about other semantic relations thereby creating what may be referred to as metadata. Semantic metadata of this form allows for the accreditation of every element in the semantic network thereby making it possible to identify what is unique personal knowledge and what is the semantic network of a document which may be a public domain document .

In variations the system is operable to provide further user interfaces and related functionality including user interfaces and functionality permitting a user to edit system generated semantic networks e.g. edit one or more semantic networks by accepting and or rejecting proposed facts presented in a concept map and user interfaces and related functionality permitting a user to create their own semantic network such as by direct user input . Such human machine collaboration features advantageously facilitate the construction by the system of semantic networks that are more complete more connected more refined or any combination thereof than otherwise would be absent such human machine collaboration features.

An advantageous aspect of the present invention is that each of the various document output representations can serve as an exposition of knowledge extracted from document content. Collectively these output representations comprise a toolset of exploration for the user which is based on the ability of the system to represent knowledge and to have this system knowledge modified and augmented by personal knowledge extracted from human actions. The ability to integrate human and machine knowledge advantageously results from an exchange of information where such information is represented by semantic networks . The system is operable in some embodiments to connect any number of the semantic networks by the connections to any number of the semantic networks thereby creating larger islands of semantic networks.

The methods of constructing the document output representations in at least some embodiments involve though are not limited to the execution of graph theoretic algorithms that operate on the set of semantic networks and the set of semantic statements . The set of semantic networks the set of semantic statements and the semantic relationships there between associated with a given document may be considered itself to be a semantic network . Every human interaction with these document output representations such as by receiving as user input a request for a specified output representation and zero or more related parameters can advantageously have the result of enlarging the semantic network . The semantic network when viewed as one may therefore be referred to as an aggregation of document knowledge and personal knowledge. The system in at least some embodiments is operable to connect personal semantic networks with document semantic networks to create personal semantic networks on documents such as the document .

The functionality of the system permitting the user to navigate between different document output representations and the personalization associated with each output representation advantageously facilitates forms of user interaction with the document content not possible with the original document absent this system functionality. These new forms of document interaction are not only unique but also advantageously provide a detailed indication of which parts of the document content the user is actually reading. Because each output representation of the document is derived from the same structured data e.g. set semantic network based on the original text of the document the reading experiences from the various output representations are aggregative. For example the reading experiences can be captured by recording user input and output representations associated with a given document and interpreted as operating on the document s underlying structured data.

The personalization of the document semantic network by the system by constructing the connections between the document semantic network with the personal semantic network fashioned from the user reading experience associated with the different output representations advantageously provides for the construction of more relevant more personalized document representations than would be generated absent such personalization features of the system. The semantic networks etc. are engaged in a feedback loop. Human machine collaboration is intended to make each successive output representation of the document content a better reading experience for the user. Such human machine collaboration is facilitated by the construction by the system of semantic networks etc. and connections there between given that semantic networks etc. are both human and machine understandable i.e. can be processed by the system to produce system outputs . The document semantic network created on the basis of the document is available for connection with other semantic networks such as the personal semantic network . The system in at least some embodiments is operable to execute graph theoretic algorithms to connect and provides weights to the elements of a document so as to advantageously indicate those elements of importance to the user.

The present invention advantageously enhances the user reading experience. The methods and system of the present invention are particularly suitable for enhancing reading experiences related to knowledge acquisition and expansion where knowledge acquisition and expansion pertains to personal knowledge acquisition and expansion of a user.

Given the volume and form of information today reading experiences are facilitated by machine intelligence and human machine collaboration in accordance with the present invention. The system in accordance with the present invention is operable to automatically annotate document content such as by generating digital representations of syntax trees make determinations of conceptual importance and or relevance to a given user input e.g. topic and or relevance to a given output e.g. output representation determining concept similarity as between concepts clustering concepts to facilitate navigation i.e. locating and processing subsets of a plurality of concepts recording document facts and other operations. The system in accordance with the present invention is advantageously operable to supplement human working memory. Because they are both human and machine understandable semantic networks are a beneficial medium of exchange between humans and the system of the present invention. For example personal semantic networks are stored and aggregated over time as the user makes use of such personal semantic networks . The expansion of personal semantic networks advantageously supplements a user s working memory thereby advantageously facilitating a user s use of many documents while minimizing or eliminating fatigue caused by information overload.

Still referring to as also described herein in respect of previous figures unstructured text from documents and are converted to sets and of semantic networks and using the method respectively. The method in at least some embodiments involves performing natural language processing and executing conceptualization techniques. The system of the present invention is operable in at least some embodiments to create semantic relationships between zero or more semantic networks and zero or more semantic networks by executing steps of a method not shown in which may be identical similar analogous or different to the methods of conceptualization and semantic similarity by which semantic relations can be sought for and found among the semantic networks and or among the semantic networks . In at least some embodiments the execution of such method steps to create semantic relations between the semantic networks and the semantic networks has the effect of merging the availability to the system of content from both documents and .

User experiences associated with various document and output representations not shown in allows for the acquisition and expansion of personal knowledge which is indicated in as having been generated by the system of the present invention in the form of a first personal semantic network associated with a first user and a second personal semantic network associated with a second user different from the first user. In general the first and second users may represent any human or group thereof including representing the same human having a plurality of user identifications. The system is preferably operable to produce any number of personal semantic networks etc. 

By way of example and with reference to the personal semantic network created by the system in response to user input received from a user X connects via the connections to the document semantic networks and produced from documents and respectively by executing steps . In like manner the personal semantic network created by the system in response to user input received from a user Y connects via the connections to the document semantic networks and . The system is operable to permit users X and Y to use their own semantic networks to personalize their respective reading experiences which advantageously facilitates users X and Y in acquiring and expanding their own knowledge from shared resources i.e. documents and .

The system is further operable in at least some embodiments to create connections between the personal semantic networks and . The connections provide access to another user s input to the system. This feature of capturing and storing reading experiences and creating connections between personal semantic networks of different users means that reading experiences such as in the form of personal semantic networks expressing user input can be distributed and shared with other people. Hence one user s interaction with a given document s content is capable of improving the reading experience for other users. By way of example the system in some embodiments is operable to dynamically generate a text summary of a given document produced in response to user input received from a first user and present such text summary to a second user different from the first user without having to provide the second user with access to the given document. In this example the second user may submit user input indicative of a request for a text summary biased or filtered by the first user e.g. User X summary filter on Document A .

Referring to the facts listing type of document representation includes the list of facts ordered by weight of importance . The system is operable to compute these weights by a graph theoretic algorithm based on the document semantic network . The facts listings includes an input box labeled Search in into which the user is permitted to enter text . The search text is received by the system as user input and the system is operable to search and filter facts in response to the search text . The system is also operable to record data associated with a given search as part of the recording of the user experience by generating and or modifying an associated personal semantic network e.g. the personal semantic network of .

The system is operable to permit a user to select a particular fact for displaying drill down text of the original document associated with the particular user selected fact . Preferably the drill down text includes the user selected fact which may be highlighted for example and original document text appearing immediately before and after the user selected fact . The operation of receiving user input selecting the user selected fact is recorded by the system for generating and or modifying the personal semantic network . In some embodiments the system is also operable to include hyperlinked text within the drill down text . The system is operable to permit a user to select a hyperlink of the hyperlinked text and provide in response thereto a new set of facts not shown .

When the system is conducting a search on the basis of the search text the system is operable to conducting the search on a plurality of documents such as searching a corpus of documents based on the contents in the input box thereby producing a subset of documents having relevance to the search text . Such produced subset of documents forms part of the system s record capturing user interaction with the system in respect of the facts listings . In some embodiments the selection of documents to be included in a given search is user controllable.

In some embodiments the system is operable to permit the user to edit the weights directly thereby advantageously capturing further information regarding the user interaction with the system for generating and or modifying the user s personal semantic network . In some embodiments the system is operable to comment not shown directly on facts such as by providing information regarding the user s subjective assessment of the relevance and or veracity of a given fact . The system is operable in such embodiments to generate and or modify the user s personal semantic network on the basis of such comments.

Referring to the text summary type of document representation includes a summary produced by the system of the document . The system is receive as user input a request for a summary of the document . Upon receiving such request the system is operable to produce the requested summary based on graph theoretic algorithms operating on the document semantic network related to the document . Preferably the system is operable to produce the requested summary also on the basis of the personal semantic network of the user who requested the summary . Based on the document semantic network and the personal semantic network if any the system is operable to determine the most important to lesser important concepts to be referenced in the summary even in the absence of further user input.

The system however is operable to receive further user input upon which to base the generation of the requested summary . By way of example the system is operable to provide the input box and to permit the user to specify a topic of interest by specifying the search text . As shown in the exemplary topic of interest specified by the search text is Cassini probe . The system is further operable to provide a strictness check box . When the strictness check box is checked the system is operable to produce the requested summary such that the requested summary includes only sentences of the document which include the search text e.g. Cassini probe . In the exemplary summary of the strictness check box is not checked thus the summary may include sentences which do not include the term Cassini probe .

The text summary type output representation includes a slidebar which permits the user to specify how much information should be included in the summary such as by permitting the user to specify the number of sentences to be included in the summary . Different summary sizes imply different summary types indicative few sentences versus informative many sentences . The system is operable to produce the summary such that the summary includes the number of sentences specified by the user in accordance with the user s placement of the slidebar and to dynamically adjust the presentation of the summary in response to changes of the slidebar setting.

The system is operable to include hyperlinked text in the summary . The hyperlinked text is generated by the system on the basis of the document semantic network . The system is operable to permit a user to select an instance of hyperlinked text within a summary and to produce in response thereto a new summary. For example the system may receive the hyperlinked text as search text . The system is operable to generate and or modify the user s personal semantic network in response to capturing the user input on which various summaries are produced the various summaries produced the types of summaries e.g. indicative versus informative or any combination thereof for example.

Recording information for generating and or modifying the personal semantic network advantageously facilitates the determination by the system of summaries not produced by the system. In at least some embodiments producing the hyperlinked text by the system involves determining identifications of significant concepts. If the user does not select hyperlinked text included in an output representation such as a summary including possibly repeatedly not selecting a given hyperlinked text included in multiple output representations of the same or different types the system is operable to reduce a significance weight not shown in associated with the given hyperlinked text .

The system is operable to search within a corpus of documents using as search criteria a topic of interest previously used for producing a summary thereby producing a subset of documents on the basis of the topic of interest. The system is operable to record data related to the topic of interest and the produced subset of documents and to generate and or modify the user s personal semantic network on the basis thereof.

In some embodiments the system is operable to permit a user to rate not shown a summary and to add user notes not shown relating to a summary .

Referring to the tag cloud type of document representation includes a set of one or more keywords associated with a document . The keywords represent the concept space of the document . The tag cloud output representation includes the slidebar . The system is operable to produce the set of keywords such that the set of keywords has a volume indicated by the user placement of the slidebar such as by having the number of keywords specified by the user placement of the slidebar . A keyword may include any number of words although typically each keyword consists of 1 to 5 words. The system is operable to determine a significance weight not shown in for each keyword by executing graph theoretic algorithm operating on the semantic relations of a document semantic network . The system is operable to indicate the determined significance weight of each keyword in the displayed tag cloud by font color not shown in and font size shown in of the displayed keyword .

The system is operable to receive search text entered by the user into the input box to conduct a search of keywords associated with the given document or corpus of documents on the basis of the user entered search text and to produce the tag cloud such that keywords located by the search are included in the tag cloud . In the exemplary tag cloud shown in the exemplary search text is the word atmosphere .

The system is operable to permit a user to select a keyword of the produced tag cloud and to produce in response to such user selection a list of facts associated with the selected keyword . Thus the system is operable to cause interaction between output representations .

Referring to the system is operable to permit a user to select the documents hyperlink and in response thereto conduct a search of a set of documents on the basis of the search text .

The system is operable to record user input output representations and document searches and to generate and or modify a user s personal semantic network in response thereto.

In some embodiments the system is operable to permit the user to add keywords . In some embodiments the system is operable to permit the user to modify the value of significance weights previously determined by the system.

Referring to the index type of document representation includes index entries of a back of the book style index associated with the document . The system is operable to derive the index entries from the semantic relations of a document semantic network associated with a document . The system is operable to permit a user to place the slidebar setting and to determine the number and detail of the index entries in response to the slidebar setting.

The system is operable to make the text and or referencing numbers of the index entries selectable by the user. The system is operable to receive such user selections and to produce further output representations in response to such user selections. The system is operable to generate and or modify the user s personal semantic network in response to data captured when receiving user selections. For example the system is operable to receive a selection of the text of a given index entry and to produce in response thereto a facts listing which includes facts associated with the selected text of the given index entry . Such facts listing shows any number of facts listed in order from facts having highest weight values to those having lower weight values. The system is further operable to permit a user to select a given fact and to produce in response thereto a further list of facts in which the further listed facts are displayed in order of appearance of such further listed facts within the original document .

Referring to the annotated text type of document representation includes a representation of the original document which may or may not be presented to the user in the original presentation style. The annotated text type output representation also includes one or more annotations associated with a selection of text of the original document . Each selection may comprise one or more sentences for example. As shown in the annotation may be presented to the user as a dialog box such as a mouseover dialog box for example. In variations of embodiments the annotation may be presented in the form of mouseovers of highlighted text text highlighting margin placed text footnote header etc. and any combination thereof for example.

The system is operable to produce each annotation on the basis of the document semantic network in response to the user selection . Annotations preferably include general information on the selection facts such as the facts associated with the selection and keywords such as the keywords associated with the selection . In some embodiments at least the system is operable to permit the user to add comments and to store such comments in association with the selection and related annotation permit the user to provide a weight for association with an annotated selection and permit the user to modify facts such as facts derived by the system from the selection . In some embodiments the system is operable to permit the user to create facts and the system is operable to receive such facts as user input.

The system is operable to record the user selections and to generate and or modify the user s personal semantic network in response thereto. In response to recorded user input the system is operable in some embodiments to modify and or compute new values of significance weights for associating with facts RDF elements etc. including modifying and or computing new values of significance weights by executing graph theoretic algorithms for example.

In the present invention the system is operable to store accreditations to original sources in association with at least some and preferably every element of a semantic network. Hence some semantic networks or the subset thereof may or may not be accessible to one or more users other than the originator of the semantic network. Access to a semantic network depends on sharing privileges being granted by the owner or originator of a semantic network. A semantic network is internal to the user when it belongs to the user and is not shared. A semantic network is external to a user when the user is not the owner but is granted sharing privileges. The system is operable to receive user input setting sharing privileges in respect of a user s own personal semantic networks and to grant sharing privileges to other users in response to such user input.

The present invention encompasses providing some or all of the features described and or illustrated herein in the form of one or more standalone executable program modules. Such modules are in some embodiments suitable for embedding within any embedded object technology platform including but not restricted to document software platforms and web platforms. For example the step of transforming a document into a set of semantic networks may be provided as a standalone executable program module including in some embodiments as a standalone executable program module for execution at a client computer.

Thus there is provided a method of generating a document representation. The method includes receiving into a memory of a system a resource containing at least one sentence of text information the system comprising a server and a client computer producing in response to each of the at least one sentence a system storable tree comprising a plurality of tree elements and grammatical relations between the tree elements each of the tree elements indicating a part of speech contained within the each sentence producing in response to each of the trees one or more semantic structures such that each of the semantic structures may include three the tree elements selected by the system such that the each semantic structure represents a simple clause associated with the each tree and storing in the memory the one or more semantic structures in association with one or more connections between common ones of the tree elements thereby generating a set of one or more semantic networks representing the resource.

While embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated such embodiments should be considered illustrative of the invention only. The invention may include variants not described or illustrated herein in detail. For example further computer program product codes may be employed to collate document use histories and generate further statistical data therefrom. Thus the embodiments described and illustrated herein should not be considered to limit the invention as construed in accordance with the accompanying claims.

