---

title: Remote trust attestation and geo-location of servers and clients in cloud computing environments
abstract: Methods and systems may provide for selecting a hypervisor protocol from a plurality of hypervisor protocols based on a communication associated with a remote agent. The selected hypervisor protocol may be used to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed values in the communication, wherein a cloud attestation request may be processed based on the trust analysis. Processing the cloud attestation request may involve generating a trustworthiness verification output, a geo-location verification output, etc., for a cloud computing node corresponding to the remote agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256742&OS=09256742&RS=09256742
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09256742
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120315
---
The present application is a continuation in part of PCT Application No. PCT US2012 23188 filed on Jan. 30 2012.

Embodiments generally relate to cloud computing. More particularly embodiments relate to enabling remote device trust attestation and geo location functionality in cloud computing environments.

While cloud computing may provide opportunities to end users with respect to processing power and flexibility certain aspects of conventional cloud computing solutions may present challenges from a security standpoint. For example determining the trustworthiness and or location of cloud computing resources in a secure and foolproof way is difficult particularly when those resources employ different operating systems OSs and virtual machine manager VMM protocols. Indeed an inability to provide sufficient security measures may hinder the adoption of cloud computing by a wide variety of industries.

Turning now to a remote trust attestation architecture for a cloud computing solution is shown. In the illustrated example a trust authority service is configured to verify the trustworthiness and or geographic location e.g. geo location of various cloud computing nodes and attest to such trustworthiness or lack thereof and or geo location to one or more inquiring applications . For example the trust authority service may use an attestation handler to receive cloud attestation requests from one or more of the inquiring applications conduct a trust analysis with respect to one or more of the cloud computing nodes and return a verification result output based on the trust analysis. The cloud attestation requests which may include trustworthiness and or geo location inquiries may be received from a cloud management interface a virtualization management interface a policy interface e.g. HyTrust Appliance a compliance interface e.g. governance risk and compliance GRC a security interface e.g. security information and event management SIEM solution from NitroSecurity ArchSight etc. and so forth. For example the compliance interface could be used to verify that the cloud computing nodes comply with one or more GRC requirements etc. Moreover the attestation handler may use one or more application programming interfaces APIs to receive the cloud attestation requests from the inquiring applications and output the verification results to the inquiring applications . In one example the APIs include representational state transfer REST APIs.

The cloud computing nodes may include various servers network devices client devices and so forth wherein the nodes may employ different operating system OS and or hypervisor e.g. VMM protocols. In the illustrated example a first node Node uses a first hypervisor protocol e.g. hypervisor protocol A to manage a virtual machine environment on the first node a second node Node i uses a second hypervisor protocol e.g. hypervisor protocol j to manage a virtual machine environment on the second node a third node Node N 1 uses a third hypervisor protocol e.g. hypervisor protocol n to operate a virtual machine environment on the third node and a fourth node Node N uses the third hypervisor protocol to operate a virtual machine environment on the fourth node . The third and fourth nodes may be managed by another node that is also configured to use the third hypervisor protocol e.g. hypervisor protocol n . As will be discussed in greater detail each cloud computing node may be associated with a trust agent configured to provide the trust authority service with information to be used in the trust analysis per the Trusted Computing Group s Remote Attestation Protocol.

Example hypervisor protocols include but are not limited to ESXi ESXi 5.0 VMware August 2011 KVM kernel based virtual machine e.g. SUSE KVM for Linux 2.6.20 February 2007 Xen e.g. Red Hat Xen for Linux v2.6.37 March 2011 and so forth. Additionally each hypervisor protocol may enable the deployment of multiple virtual machines in various different operating systems including but not limited to Windows Linux and Mac operating systems. The Attestation mechanism would work seamlessly to attest to the Trust of Virtual Machines once we have virtual TPMs trusted platform modules .

In the illustrated example the trust authority service includes one or more REST APIs attestation server logic that receives digitally signed communications e.g. secure sockets layer SSL communications from the trust agents wherein a certificate authority may be used to verify digital signatures. In addition the illustrated trust authority service includes a trust verifier that is configured to conduct the trust analysis on a per hypervisor protocol basis. For example the trust verifier may select a protocol specific plug in from a plurality of protocol specific plug ins and use the selected protocol specific plug in to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed values in the communications from the trust agents . In particular the digitally signed values may include platform configuration register PCR values such as geo location values software hashes e.g. SHA Hash values integrity measurement log IML values such as measurement sequence and boot log information etc. wherein the trust analysis may involve comparing the digitally signed values with one or more known values.

In this regard the illustrated architecture also includes a white list repository and a white list module that uses one or more REST APIs to receive the known values via a white list portal and populates the white list repository with the known values. The known values may be determined for example by running the cloud computing node in a controlled IT information technology environment and identifying the current measurements wherein such values may also be stored to a secure PCR of the cloud computing node for use at run time. The golden or goodknown module hashes may also be obtained from a VMM OS vendor via an appropriate update manager sub system.

Thus the trust verifier may retrieve the known values from the white list repository according to the cloud computing node in question and compare the digitally signed values in the communications to the known values. For example the comparison may be conducted with respect to one or more hypervisor OS hash values in order to determine whether the source of the incoming communication is in fact associated with a trusted cloud computing node . In another example the comparison may be conducted with respect to one or more geo location values e.g. comparing the digitally signed geo location value in a communication to a map in order to determine the location of the source of the incoming communication.

The illustrated attestation server logic communicates the result of the trust analysis to the attestation handler which may output the result as a response to the cloud attestation request. The attestation handler may also use a trust cache to process the cloud attestation request wherein the trust cache may include time stamped trustworthiness geo location data that may accelerate the attestation process. For example the attestation handler may access the trust cache and determine that a trustworthiness and or geo location validation response has recently been generated for the cloud computing node in question and use the result from the trust cache instead of and or in addition to the result from the trust authority service .

The trust authority service may be implemented on for example a personal computer PC server workstation laptop personal digital assistant PDA wireless smart phone media player imaging device mobile Internet device MID any smart device such as a smart phone smart tablet and so forth or any combination thereof. Thus the trust verifier attestation server logic and certificate authority may incorporate certain hardware elements such as for example a processor controller and or chipset memory structures busses etc. In addition the illustrated trust authority service uses a network interface to exchange communications with the cloud computing nodes and or inquiring applications as appropriate. For example the network interface could provide off platform wireless communication functionality for a wide variety of purposes such as for example cellular telephone e.g. Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 IS 856 IS 2000 etc. Wi Fi Wireless Fidelity e.g. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 2007 Wireless Local Area Network LAN Medium Access Control MAC and Physical Layer PHY Specifications LR WPAN Low Rate Wireless Personal Area Network e.g. IEEE 802.15.4 2006 Bluetooth e.g. IEEE 802.15.1 2005 Wireless Personal Area Networks WiMax e.g. IEEE 802.16 2004 LAN MAN Broadband Wireless LANS GPS Global Positioning System spread spectrum e.g. 900 MHz and other RF radio frequency telephony purposes. The network interface may also provide off platform wired communication e.g. RS 232 Electronic Industries Alliance EIA Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 2005 power line communication e.g. X10 IEEE P1675 USB e.g. Universal Serial Bus e.g. USB Specification 3.0 Rev. 1.0 Nov. 12 2008 USB Implementers Forum DSL digital subscriber line cable modem T1 connection etc. functionality.

Illustrated processing block selects a hypervisor protocol from a plurality of hypervisor protocols based on a communication associated with a remote trust agent. The selected hypervisor protocol may be used at block to conduct a trust analysis one or more digitally signed values in the communication. In one example the trust analysis includes comparing the digitally signed values to one or more known values as already discussed. Thus if a communication is received from a device masquerading as a trusted cloud computing node the process at block may determine that the digitally signed values in the communication do not correspond to match the known values. In addition block may process a cloud attestation request based on the trust analysis. Thus if it has been determined that the digitally signed values do not correspond to match the known values block may involve generating an output indicating that the device in question is not trustworthy. In another example the illustrated method may attest to output a trusted geo location value for the remote device in question.

Turning now to an example of a cloud computing node Node i is shown. The illustrated cloud computing node which may include a server network device client device etc. may be readily substituted for one or more of the nodes already discussed. In the illustrated example a hardware layer of the node includes a central processing unit CPU and chipset as well as a trusted platform module TPM having a PCR and non volatile RAM NVRAM . A software stack of the node may include a basic input output system BIOS firmware FW layer and a hypervisor layer having a trust agent and trusted boot tboot code . The trust agent may have functionality similar to that of the trust agents FIG. already discussed. The illustrated node also includes a plurality of virtual machines wherein two or more of the virtual machines may use s different OS.

Once the illustrated CPU and chipset and TPM are provisioned correctly e.g. for trusted execution geo location etc. the illustrated tboot code may populate the PCR with geo location values and other software hashes wherein the trust agent may retrieve the information from the PCR digitally sign it and transmit it as a communication to a trust authority service . The trust authority service which may include functionality similar to that of the trust authority service already discussed may then use the digitally signed values to respond to one or more cloud attestation requests from a cloud management application via an attestation handler . Thus the illustrated cloud management application may have functionality similar to that of one or more of the inquiring applications already discussed.

Embodiments may therefore involve a method of operating a trust authority service in which a hypervisor protocol is selected from a plurality of hypervisor protocols based on a communication associated with a remote trust agent. The selected hypervisor protocol may be used to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed values in the communication. In addition the method may provide for processing a cloud attestation request based on the trust analysis. In one example processing the cloud attestation request includes generating a trustworthiness verification output for the cloud computing node.

In one example selecting the hypervisor protocol from a plurality of hypervisor protocols includes selecting a protocol specific plug in.

In another example the method further includes retrieving one or more known values from a white list repository wherein the trust analysis includes comparing the one or more digitally signed values to the one or more known values. The method may also include receiving the one or more known values via a white list portal and populating the white list repository with the one or more known values. In addition the one or more known values and the one or more digitally signed values include one or more of register values and log data.

In another example the method further includes receiving the communication from a cloud computing node associated with the remote trust agent wherein processing the cloud attestation request includes generation of a trustworthiness verification output for the cloud computing node. Additionally the communication may be received from one or more of a server a network device and a client device.

In another example the method further includes receiving the cloud attestation request via one or more of a cloud management interface a virtualization management interface a policy interface a compliance interface and a security interface.

Embodiments may also include at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the examples of the aforementioned method an apparatus for operating a trust authority service configured to perform any of the examples of the aforementioned method and a system for operating a trust authority service comprising a network interface and a chipset configured to perform the method of any of the examples of the aforementioned method.

Embodiments may also include at least one computer accessible and or machine readable storage medium having a set of instructions which if executed by a processor cause a computing device to select a hypervisor protocol from a plurality of hypervisor protocols based on a communication associated with a remote trust agent. The instructions may also cause a computing device to use the selected hypervisor protocol to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed values in the communication and process a cloud attestation request based on the trust analysis. In one example processing the cloud attestation request includes generating a trustworthiness verification output for the cloud computing node.

Other embodiments may involve a method of operating a trust authority service in which one or more known values are received via a white list portal and a white list repository is populated with the one or more known values. The method may also provide for receiving a communication from a cloud computing node associated with a remote trust agent and selecting a protocol specific plug in from a plurality of protocol specific plug ins based on a hypervisor protocol corresponding to the communication. In addition the one or more known values may be retrieved from the white list repository wherein the selected protocol specific plug in may be used to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed geo location values in the communication. In one example the trust analysis includes comparing the one or more digitally signed geo location values to the one or more known values wherein the known values include map data. Moreover the method may provide for processing a cloud attestation request based on the trust analysis wherein processing the cloud attestation request includes generating a location verification output for the cloud computing node.

In one example the communication is received from one or more of a server a network device and a client device.

In another example the method further includes receiving the cloud attestation request via one or more of a cloud management interface a virtualization management interface a policy interface a compliance interface and a security interface.

Embodiments may also include at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the examples of the aforementioned method an apparatus for operating a trust authority service configured to perform any of the examples of the aforementioned method and a system for operating a trust authority service comprising a network interface and a chipset configured to perform the method of any of the examples of the aforementioned method.

Additionally embodiments may include an apparatus having a white list repository and a white list module with a white list portal wherein the white list module is to receive one or more known values via the white list portal and populate the white list repository with the one or more known values. The apparatus may also include a trust module having attestation server logic to receive a communication from a cloud computing node associated with a remote trust agent and a trust verifier to select a protocol specific plug in from a plurality of protocol specific plug ins based on a hypervisor protocol corresponding to the communication. The trust verifier may also retrieve the one or more known values from the white list repository and use the selected protocol specific plug in to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed geo location values in the communication. In one example the trust analysis includes a comparison of the one or more digitally signed geo location values to the one or more known values and the attestation server logic generates a location verification output for the cloud computing node based on the trust analysis.

Embodiments may also include a system having a network interface to identify a communication from a cloud computing node associated with a remote trust agent. The system may also have a chipset with a trust verifier to select a hypervisor protocol from a plurality of hypervisor protocols based on the communication. In addition the trust verifier may use the selected hypervisor protocol to conduct a trust analysis of one or more digitally signed values in the communication wherein the chipset further includes attestation server logic to process a cloud attestation request based on the trust analysis.

Techniques described herein therefore provide an approach to remote attestation that is scalable across hundreds thousands of hosts and devices in multi OS multi hypervisor environments. Such techniques enable trustworthiness determinations to be made prior to dispatching applications and workloads onto hosts devices and other resources in a cloud computing infrastructure. Moreover geo location information may be stored and retrieved in a tamper proof approach that is highly flexible.

Certain aspects of embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. Program code may be applied to the data entered using an input device to perform the functions described and to generate output information. The output information may be applied to one or more output devices. One of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with various computer system configurations including multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks may be performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

Each program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a processing system. However programs may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be compiled or interpreted.

Program instructions may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processing system that is programmed with the instructions to perform the methods described herein. Alternatively the methods may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the methods or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. The methods described herein may be provided as a computer program product that may include at least one machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions that may be used to program a processing system or other electronic device to perform the methods. The term machine readable medium or machine accessible medium used herein shall include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one of the methods described herein. The terms machine readable medium and machine accessible medium may accordingly include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic disks and a carrier wave that encodes a data signal. Furthermore it is common in the art to speak of software in one form or another e.g. program procedure process application module logic and so on as taking an action or causing a result. Such expressions are merely a shorthand way of stating the execution of the software by a processing system to cause the processor to perform an action or produce a result.

The term coupled may be used herein to refer to any type of relationship direct or indirect between the components in question and may apply to electrical mechanical fluid optical electromagnetic electromechanical or other connections. In addition the terms first second etc. may be used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

