---

title: Dynamic web portal page
abstract: A method for providing a dynamic web portal page in a web portal environment by modifying the web portal page, the method comprising, with a server, providing a content with one or more portlets of the web portal page to a user; entering code from the server for identifying user-interface elements in the content of the web portal page; entering code from the server into the provided content of the web portal page for monitoring user actions related to the identified user-interface elements in the content of the web portal page; re-configuring automatically the content of the web portal page according to a user-specific preference extracted from the monitored user actions for the user at a later stage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165083&OS=09165083&RS=09165083
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09165083
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120313
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. application Ser. No. 12 917 217 filed Nov. 1 2010 entitled Dynamic Web Portal Page which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In turn U.S. application Ser. No. 12 917 217 pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 b and 37 C.F.R. 1.55 a corresponds to and claims the priority of European Patent Application No. 09174794.9 filed on Nov. 2 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by the reference in its entirety.

The present application relates to the field of network computing and in particular to a method and system for designing a web portal or enterprise portal including a hierarchical structure of portal pages and portlets for accessing web content or enterprise content accessible via the web portal.

Web portals help to present to all users in a unified way a diverse amount of information on one web page. Typical web portals offer a variety of services such as for example e mail news stock prices weather and entertainment among others. Web portals therefore offer a single web page that a user can access and thereby acquire a large amount of services and information in one place. A web portal is typically separated into web modules called portlets that separate sections of the web portal each portlet representing at least one of the services or sources of information mentioned above. It is these portlets that the user or viewer of the web portal sees as blocks or sections within the web portal.

The present application discloses a method for providing a dynamic web portal page in a web portal environment by modifying the web portal page. The web portal page corresponds to a predetermined level in a navigation topology. The method includes with a server providing content with at least one portlet of the web portal page to a user. A code is entered from the server into the provided content of the web portal page for identifying user interface elements in the content of the web portal page. Further code is entered from the server into the provided content of the web portal page for monitoring user actions related to the identified user interface elements in the content of the web portal page. The content of the web portal page is re configured automatically according to a user specific preference extracted from the monitored user actions for the user at a later stage.

The present application further discloses a computer program product for providing a dynamic web portal page in a web portal environment the computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code may comprise computer readable program code configured to provide via a server a content with one or more portlets of the web portal page to a user computer readable program code configured to enter code from the server for identifying user interface elements in the content of the web portal page computer readable program code configured to enter code from the server into the provided content of the web portal page for monitoring user actions related to the identified user interface elements in the content of the web portal page and computer readable program code configured to automatically re configure the content of the web portal page according to a user specific preference extracted from the monitored user actions for the user at a later stage.

The present application further discloses a system for providing a dynamic web portal page in a web portal environment by modifying the web portal page. The system may comprise a server configured to provide a content with at least one portlet of the web portal page to a user in which the server enters code into the provided content of the web portal page for identifying user interface elements in the content of the web portal page in which the server enters code into the provided content of the web portal page for monitoring user actions related to the identified user interface elements in the content of the web portal page and in which the server re configures automatically the content of the web portal page according to a user specific preference extracted from the monitored user actions for the user at a later stage.

The present application further discloses a computer program product for providing a dynamic web portal page in a web portal environment the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code may comprise computer readable program code configured to provide via a server a content with one or more portlets of the web portal page to a user computer readable program code configured to enter code from the server for identifying user interface elements in the content of the web portal page computer readable program code configured to enter code from the server into the provided content of the web portal page for monitoring user actions related to the identified user interface elements in the content of the web portal page and computer readable program code configured to automatically re configure the content of the web portal page according to a user specific preference extracted from the monitored user actions for the user at a later stage. The computer readable program code may further comprise computer readable program code configured to select and associate one or more variants of content of the web portal page for a specific user in which the computer readable program code configured to select and associate one or more variants of content of the web portal page for a specific user further comprises computer readable program code configured to select the most successful variant of content permanently and disposing less successful variants computer readable program code configured to associate a duration of viewing a portlet by the user to presenting of a specific portlet to the user computer readable program code configured to associate a layout of the content to a specific user computer readable program code configured to generate one or more tasks in a workflow process for human interaction or combinations thereof.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

The present specification discloses a method system and computer program product for providing a dynamic web portal page in a web portal environment by modifying the web portal page. The web portal page corresponds to a predetermined level in a navigation topology and the web portal page displays a multitude of portlets.

Aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code among others or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium or mediums having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium or mediums may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In the following description and in the appended claims the term flavor is meant to be understood broadly as a user specific preference. For example a flavor may specifically be variants of a web page portal with alternative user experience content or slightly modified content a modified version of the default navigation tree presented in the web portal page where the modification can be a different structure different portlets or different metadata or a complete new navigation model besides the current default navigation tree. Additionally in the following description and in the appended claims the term user interface element or UI element is meant to be understood broadly as any element in the web portal page where the user can give an input can click on or interact in another way.

Still further in the following description and in the appended claims the term theme is meant to be understood as a decoration of a web page such as for example the color of the page the structure of the page the appearance of the page amongst others. Similarly the term skin in the present description and in the appended claims is meant to be understood as a decoration of a portlet such as for example the color of the portlet the structure of the portlet the appearance of the portlet amongst others.

Further in the following description and in the appended claims the term user interface element is meant to be understood broadly as any element in a web portal page or portlet of a web portal page where a user can give an input can click on or otherwise interact with the web page portal.

In more detail a portal engine of the web server in implements an aggregation of portlets based on the underlying portal model and portal information such as security settings user roles customization settings and device capabilities. Within the rendered page the portal automatically generates the appropriate set of navigation elements based on the portal model . The portal engine invokes portlets during the aggregation as required and when required and may additionally use caching to reduce the number of requests made to the portlets . For example the WEBSPHERE PORTAL by International Business Machines IBM employs open standards such as the JAVA PORTLET API application programming interface by Sun Microsystems Incorporated. It also supports the use of a remote portlet via the web services for remote portlets WSRP standard.

The portlet container is a single control component competent for all portlets that may control the execution of code residing in each of these portlets . It provides the runtime environment for the portlets and facilities for event handling inter portlet messaging and access to portlet instance and configuration data among others.

The portal resources are in particular the portlets themselves and the pages on which they are aggregated in the form of an aggregation of fragments. A portal database stores the description of the portlets featuring some attributes like portlet name portlet description portlet title portlet short title and keywords and the portlet interaction interface description which is often stored in the form of web service description language WSDL documents. The portal database also stores the portal content structure for example the hierarchical structure of portal pages which may again contain nested pages and portlets. This data is stored in the database in an adequate representation based on conventional techniques such as relational tables.

The before mentioned aggregation logic includes all steps that are required to assemble a web page. Typically these steps include loading a content structure from storage traversing it and calling the instances referenced in the structure in order to obtain their output which is assembled to a single page. The content structure may be defined through for example portlet customization by the administrator.

When web applications are visited by a web user a navigation menu that provides some means to access underlying content is usually displayed to a user. A navigation menu is usually structured in a tree like topology and web users are forced to traverse the tree in order to reach a node matching the content the user is interested in. Specifically web portals are equipped with such navigation menus that are used to navigate through all of the contents the web portal provides.

However not every user is interested in the same content and therefore the structure that is provided on any given portal may satisfy the needs of only a certain user group. For many individual users however the given topology does not satisfy their needs.

An example embodiment of an analytic feedback loop comprising a web portal server a client displaying portal content of a web portal page and a site analytic service is illustrated in . The portal content is expressed in different flavors that are variants of the web portal page with alternative user experience content or slightly modified content. Different users may get exposed to different flavors. A flavor is to be understood as either a modified version of the default navigation tree presented in the web portal page where the modification can be a different structure different portlets or different metadata or 2 a complete new navigation model besides the current default navigation tree.

The web portal page is modified so that a multitude of variants V V V are presented to different users. According to one illustrative example the variants V V V of the web portal page are equipped with a right set of infrastructure for web portal page analysis. For this purpose a portal aggregation on the server side injects code into a produced variant V V V of the web portal page which can be used to identify and or reference any relevant user interface element UI element . In a simple embodiment an identifier is attached to each of the user interface elements UI elements . A user interface element UI element is to be understood as an element in the web portal page where the user can give an input click on an available option or interact in another way. An administration portlet could expose a user interface that allows the selection pages and user interface elements UI elements within pages that would be of relevance.

The portal aggregation may also inject code that identifies the page elements that are subject to user actions for example user behavior. This code may be collected and aggregated by an analytics aggregator. The purpose of the analytics aggregator is to collect data about which user interface elements UI elements are present on the page. After appropriated analysis this may allow the tracking of a list of user actions or activities. This may be done by monitoring how often or how long one of the user interface elements UI elements is viewed.

Once the web portal page or its variants V V V is closed the list of user actions may be transferred directly to the configure site analytics provider via an output of the client . The data and amount of evaluation may depend on the chosen site analytics provider.

By way of example an analysis of aggregated user actions may be performed on an analytics server comprising analytics software such as GOOGLE ANALYTICS by Google Incorporated. The results may be returned to the web portal server as a report to an input of the web portal server . The web portal server is taking action on the results to adapt the current user experience and apply the feedback retrieved from the analysis.

In a detailed scenario the browser client requests a portal page as indicated by a line . The web portal server returns a web portal page markup as indicated by a line including metadata markup in a custom micro format in form of a variant V V V based on user attributes decisions and a rule engine which are coupled to the server or part of the web portal server . The browser client aggregates metadata using the aggregator. Upon closure of the web portal page the browser client sends the collected information on the user actions on the web portal page or one of its variants V V V to an analytics server via for example HTTP GET. The site analytics server writes a report for example an access log. An analytics software package analyzes the report and sends it back to the web portal server .

There are different options available on how the web portal server may take action on the results to adapt the current user experience and apply the feedback retrieved from the analysis. By way of example as a first option if in the analysis of the site analytic service one of the flavors has proved to be most successful for example a purchase option has been chosen most often or in the alternative most quickly the most successful flavor can be selected permanently and the other variants can be disposed. Alternatively user characteristics or attributes can be considered and the user actions analyzed taking into account the user characteristics or attributes. As a result specific flavors can be selected for specific user characteristics or attributes.

As a second option portal personalization such as user attributes decisions and rules engine may have already defined rules taking into account parameters filled in by the analytics data from the report . For instance if a viewing duration is long a portlet may be presented with advertising information. Alternatively or additionally if the viewing duration is short a news ticker may be presented on the web portal page . Alternatively or additionally the most frequently viewed portlets may always show on a main page of the web portal page .

As a third option new personalization rules can be created automatically. For example if the view duration is short for a specific user the specific page may not be presented for that user again.

Still another option is that the general portal site layout can be manipulated for example by generating suitable scripts such as XMLACCESS XML scripts International Business Machines IBM which place the most frequently viewed pages to myFavorites or other convenient places.

A further option may be generating tasks in a workflow process which ask for human interaction of a portal designer. The task may be viewed in a task portlet such as for example those provided by WEBSPHERE PORTAL by International Business Machines IBM . The above described options may be selected as single options or may be selected as a combination of two or more options.

The flavor filter selects one out of many different flavors or variations of a particular website. The selected flavor may be used as the flavor of a given page which may also be used and sent to a user. The choice of a flavor can be tailored by configuration for example by reserving a set of flavors for a particular user group only.

When the engine requests a flavor as indicated by a line the flavor detector requests a flavor from the flavor manager in case a flavor is already associated with a particular user and the requested flavor is returned from the flavor manager to the flavor detector .

The flavor detector identifies the flavor that has been associated with a particular user. To avoid confusion each user may continuously see the same flavor. This association is done with the flavor association component the flavor associator . Different flavors are managed by the flavor manager .

In case a flavor has not yet been associated with a particular user the flavor detector requests a flavor for a current user from the flavor associator . The request is submitted together with information for the current user received from the behavior recorder . The flavor associator requests a flavor object from the flavor manager and returns the requested flavor to the flavor detector . As a result the flavor detector returns the requested flavor as indicated by a line to the engine .

A data processing system for example web portal server as schematically depicted in suitable for storing and or executing program code may include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices among others can be coupled to the system either directly of through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

