---

title: Method and apparatus for transferring a communication call
abstract: A docking mechanism is disclosed that is used to establish a network connection between a mobile device and an enterprise Private Branch Exchange (PBX). Once docked, a mobile unified communication integrated dialer (MUCID) is able to be used to select between carrying a communications call over a land line (through the PBX system) or a mobile telephone line (through a cellular communication network). User mobility is provided by allowing a docked mobile device to be undocked either using a trigger on the docking station or via a UI interface on the mobile device and transfer an active call being carried over the PBX onto the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143911&OS=09143911&RS=09143911
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09143911
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120228
---
Many business establishments use a private branch exchange PBX system to make connections among their internal telephone lines and connect the internal lines to a public switched telephone network PSTN . A PBX system often includes extensions to other devices such as fax machines modems etc. Further many PBX systems include extensions to mobile devices e.g. cellular phones smart phones etc. . The PBX extension to mobile allows the users to use their mobile devices as virtual extensions of the PBX and benefit from features of PBX such as single number reachability SNR and simultaneous ringing. For example using the single number reachability feature of PBX an office worker using the PBX extension to mobile may use his her personal cell phone to receive business calls incoming to his her office phone. Similarly using the simultaneous ringing feature of PBX the office worker s business phone and cell phone ring simultaneously so that he she can receive calls incoming to his her office phone at his her cell phone.

Due to the increasing number of individuals that spend time away from their work environments either by telecommuting working from client locations or working while traveling many business establishments have been moving away from their traditional settings and investing in providing their employees with mobile and remote communications capabilities. Although features such as the PBX extension to mobile may be used existing features are costly to set up and do not provide the user with the ability to access their personal number and their business number using their smart phone.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein relate to a unified communication integrated dialer system. Certain embodiments relate to a system that includes a docking station and a trigger. The docking station establishes a network connection between a mobile device also referred to herein as a mobile device or mobile phone and an enterprise Private Branch Exchange PBX . The trigger initiates transferring of a communication call between the mobile device and the PBX via an established network connection between the PBX and the docking station. Some embodiments disclosed herein further relate to an intelligent docking and undocking selection algorithm for selecting a telephony network. Certain other embodiments disclosed herein relate to a dock undock trigger e.g. dock undock button touchpad or the like that may be used on the intelligent docking station. Some embodiments relate to a user interface on the mobile device that is used to facilitate removal i.e. undock of the mobile device from a docking station prior to transferring a communication call from a PBX communications device to the mobile device.

In some embodiments the trigger upon activation initiates transferring of a communication call initiated on the mobile device over the PBX via the established network connection. In some embodiments the trigger upon activation initiates transferring of an active communications call being carried over the PBX to the mobile device via the established network connection. The trigger is arranged to issue an indication of completion of the transferring of the communication call.

Certain embodiments relate to a system that includes a docking station that establishes a network connection among a plurality of communications devices. The communications devices include a mobile device and a PBX communications device connected to an enterprise PBX. The trigger initiates transferring a communication call between the enterprise PBX communications device and the mobile device via the established network connection.

Some embodiments relate to establishing a network connection among a plurality of communications devices and initiating transferring of a communication call between the enterprise PBX communications device and the mobile device via the established network connection. The communications devices include a mobile device and a PBX communications device connected to an enterprise PBX.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below.

As illustrated in an enterprise e.g. business home etc. uses a PBX e.g. a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP PBX or a legacy PBX to connect multiple elements within the enterprise to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . The PSTN may further connect through a gateway to the Internet . The elements within the enterprise include but are not limited to VoIP phone configuration resources e.g. corporate voice mail simple network management protocol SNMP light weight directory access control LDAP active directory AD etc. and other elements PBX Extension Devices such as fax machines telephones and modems. The elements connected using a PBX are generally referred to as extensions. These elements may be connected to the PBX via an enterprise network .

A docking station is also connected to the enterprise network . The docking station is used to establish both a physical i.e. dock and a network connection between a mobile communications device and the PBX via the enterprise network . In some embodiments the docking station includes a physical interface not shown that is used to dock and connect the mobile communications device to the PBX via the enterprise network . In some embodiments the physical interface includes a Universal Serial Bus USB connection not shown .

As shown in at any given time the mobile communications device may be in the docked state or undocked state. In the docked state the mobile communications device is connected through the docking station and enterprise network to the enterprise PBX .

When in the undocked state the mobile communication device is no longer connected to the enterprise PBX . However the user is still given the option of selecting between an enterprise calling mode and a personal calling mode. If the personal calling mode is selected the communication call is carried over the wireless network . If the enterprise calling mode is selected a two stage dialing process details of which are provided later with reference to that bridges the call through the enterprise PBX is employed.

In certain embodiments the docking station includes a trigger such as a button or touch pad that is used to initiate or terminate the docking process. Specifically a user may dock his her personal mobile business communications device into the docking station by establishing a physical connection to the docking station via a USB connection. Once docked the docking station establishes a connection between the personal mobile business communications device and the PBX via the enterprise network . Once a connection to the PBX is established i.e. docked a mobile device number MDN call forwarding feature is automatically activated by the mobile device to direct the incoming calls to the MDN of the mobile communications device to the enterprise Direct Inward Dialing DID of the PBX. Further the mobile device and any PBX communication devices linked to the mobile device may include a simultaneous ringing feature that causes the mobile device and its linked PBX devices to ring simultaneously. In such situations simultaneous ringing feature of any PBX device e.g. VoIP phone that may have been linked to the mobile communications device is also disabled.

Once simultaneous ringing is disabled the mobile communications device configuration file may be obtained from the configuration resources of the enterprise network and applied to the mobile communications device as desired. If an updates to an existing mobile communication device configuration file are available the most recently updated configuration file may be applied. Corporate directory access may also be configured and controlled via LDAP of configuration resources if needed. Further the mobile communications device may be registered as a third party Session Initiation Protocol SIP agent not shown via the enterprise PBX . If a connection to the wireless network is weak or unavailable the mobile communications device continues to search for coverage and subsequently performs MDN call forwarding and disabling of the simultaneous ringing at a later time.

Once MDN forwarding disabling of the simultaneous ringing and SIP registration are completed the trigger issues an indication of completion of these steps. In some embodiments the indication is a visual indication. For example in certain embodiments the trigger may change color e.g. turn amber from red or green . Completion may additionally be audibly conveyed via mobile device PD BD and or docking station .

The mobile device is now in a docked state also referred to as desk phone mode . The docked state herein refers to instances in which the phone is physically and communicatively connected to the docking station the communication is enabled on the enterprise PBX and the mobile device is registered with an SIP via the enterprise PBX .

The docked mobile device is now able to handle calls that have been anchored on the enterprise PBX . Calls handled in this mode are referred to herein as Enterprise Calls.

The docking station provides a user with a single interface when using mobile and PBX network thereby removing the need for a user to constantly have to transition between using different interfaces for the two mediums and providing the users with the ability to extend their fixed mobile convergence experience to the enterprise desk phone user.

In the docked state a docked mobile communications device accesses the enterprise PBX and provides cost saving VoIP based voice service as minutes of a mobile device calling plan associated with the mobile device PD BD are not used. When the mobile device PD BD is docked to the enterprise PBX all of the phone calls of the mobile device PD BD are made received via the enterprise PBX telephony system and the mobile device is able to use many of the commonly used features of the enterprise PBX. This provides a user with a desk phone replacement solution and a single device enterprise experience permitting the mobile device PD BD to be used in a variety of inter and intra office locations.

As above allowing a mobile device to be docked provides the user with a unified experience inside and outside of the enterprise. The mobile device while in the docked state utilizes enterprise Ethernet connectivity and or VoIP connectivity and uses cellular connectivity via wireless network when in the mobile undocked state . When in the docked state the mobile device may be able to use features of the enterprise available only to phones physically connected with the enterprise system such features may not be available when in the undocked state. For example the mobile device may able to access enterprise visual voice mail view enterprise call logs and access corporate directories only when docked.

Referring back to the trigger is also used to undock the mobile communications device from the enterprise PBX . In certain embodiments the undocking may be in response to activation of the trigger . In certain embodiments the undocking may be triggered by a user selecting an undock option from a user interface of the mobile device .

Regardless of how undocking is initiated e.g. in response to activation of the trigger or by selecting an undock option on a user interface of the mobile device the initiation of undocking triggers deactivation of the previously activated MDN forwarding feature. Further the simultaneous ringing feature of any PBX device e.g. VoIP phone that may have been linked to the mobile device is also enabled. Call transfer to MDN is also activated if needed.

In some embodiments the trigger e.g. undock button then issues an indication of completion of these steps. In certain embodiments the indication is a visual indication. For example in certain embodiments the trigger may change color e.g. turn green . The mobile device may now be undocked. In the undocked state the mobile device is utilizing the wireless i.e. cellular network for all communications.

The mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface provides a menu access to common PBX features e.g. Add Call or Call Conferencing Call Hold Call Transfer etc. . The mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface also allows a user to undock a call from the dialer menu. Further mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface provides an interface to a mobile UC Integrated Dialer application not shown that depending on the calling mode personal or enterprise and docking state docked or undocked of the mobile device selects an appropriate signal path which is transparent to the user to deliver calls and features. This selection is transparent to the user.

In some embodiments the mobile UC Integrated Dialer application is a smart phone application that functions as an integrated dialer to support Business and Mobile calls. In some embodiments the UC integrated dialer application provides a mobile device user with the required functionalities e.g. touch screen buttons for selecting between personal and enterprise calling modes. The enterprise mode calls are placed through the PSTN system connected to the enterprise PBX and personal mode calls are carried directly through the mobile network.

As noted above in some embodiments the undock calls feature of the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface is used to undock a mobile device from the enterprise BPX rather than the trigger on the docking station. If there is an active call taking place at the time the phone is undocked the docked mobile device provides the option of transferring the active call from the PBX system to the cellular network thereby providing call continuity.

In certain embodiments when the undock feature of the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface is selected the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface may prompt the user for confirmation. In some embodiments if the user confirms via the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface that the mobile device is in fact intended to be undocked in response to detecting this confirmation the mobile device proceeds to undock the mobile device from the docking station and when this activity is completed issues a confirmation e.g. via a display on the mobile device and or docking station signaling the completion of the undocking of the mobile phone. In certain embodiments if an active call is in progress the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface may prompt the user and request instructions for transferring the active call. If the mobile device detects a user input via the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface indicating that the call is not to be transferred the call is dropped. In some embodiments if the mobile device detects a user input via the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface indicating that the call is to be transferred the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface displays a confirmation of the transfer of the call upon completion of the transfer. In some embodiments the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface may issue a signal to the user during the transfer of the call e.g. display a screen indicating that the call is being transferred .

Although not shown in in certain embodiments the mobile UC Integrated Dialer interface includes the functionality e.g. touch screen buttons for prompting a user to select among the different calling modes e.g. enterprise mode or personal mode or the functionality e.g. icons illustrating the calling mode that is actively being used.

The UC Integrated Dialer Interface assists a user not shown with completing calls under various calling modes e.g. enterprise calling mode and personal calling mode and provides a consistent user experience while maintaining a unique interface every time a call is made. As shown in the UC Integrated Dialer Interface is used to initiate a communication request e.g. make a 10 digit dialing call .

Although the term phone call is used herein to collectively refer to any type of communication call made using embodiments disclosed herein this term does not limit the embodiments to a traditional phone call. Any type of communications request known in the art may be initiated using the disclosed embodiments.

Once a communication call request is made e.g. by entering a 10 digit phone number the UC Integrated Dialer application not shown determines whether or not the mobile device is operating in an enterprise mode . The enterprise mode refers to when the mobile device is in docked state and is thus handling calls that have been anchored on the PBX system. If it is determined that the mobile device is not in the enterprise mode in response the mobile Factory Dialer is used to complete the call. The mobile Factory Dialer is a native dialer provided by manufacture and is used as the default dialer for cellular network voice services.

If it is determined that the mobile device is in the enterprise mode the mobile UC Integrated Dialer application in response determines whether or not the mobile device is docked to the enterprise PBX . If it is determined that the mobile device is not docked in response the call is completed using a transparent Two Stage Dialer . The transparent Two Stage Dialer is a single number native dialer that bypasses the two stage dialing process associated with the PBX system and allows the mobile device to access Enterprise PBX features when in the undocked state. The transparent two stage dialer described herein eliminates dialing of the Enterprise Access Number before entering the called party number to complete the call thereby making the two stage dialing process transparent to the user. The transparent Two Stage Dialer uses the wireless cellular network as the primary access medium for voice services.

Specifically in a two stage dialing process to access the enterprise PBX the Enterprise Access Number is dialed at the mobile device the communications device and or user is authenticated and then a dial tone is provided by the enterprise PBX . After receiving the dial tone provided by the enterprise PBX a second set of digits for a called party not shown is entered at the mobile device to complete the call. After receiving the second set of numbers for a called party the enterprise PBX suspends the first stage of the call i.e. from the mobile device to the Enterprise Access Number and uses the second set of numbers to call the called party. Once the called party answers the phone the enterprise PBX bridges and completes the call. The transparent two stage dialer eliminates dialing of the Enterprise Access Number before entering the called party number to complete the call.

Referring back to if the UC Integrated Dialer application determines that the mobile device is docked to the enterprise PBX a VoIP dialer is employed to complete the call . The VoIP dialer is an SIP compliant dialer that allows the mobile device to function and behave as an enterprise desk phone when in the docked state. The VoIP dialer uses the enterprise PBX infrastructure as the primary access medium for voice services. Further the VoIP dialer accesses the enterprise voice services via the network interface provided by the docking station . Therefore a called party number can be entered either via the dialer on the mobile device or via a traditional keypad that integral with the docking station and enterprise PBX features are able to be accessed in a manner similar to a standard enterprise desk phone.

As noted above the UC Integrated Dialer Interface assists a user not shown with completing calls under various calling modes and provides a consistent user experience while maintaining a unique interface when a call is made. In some embodiments the UC integrated Dialer Interface is used to make communication calls to other extension within the PBX thereby providing a mobile user a calling experience similar to that offered by a desktop PBX device. When a request for an extension call is made e.g. by entering a PBX extension number the UC Integrated Dialer application not shown determines whether or not the mobile device is operating in an enterprise mode . If it is determined that the mobile device is not in the enterprise mode in response an extension call from the mobile device may not be completed. In certain embodiments the UC Integrated Dialer Interface may issue a visual and or audible indication via the mobile device and or docking station to relay the failure of the extension dialing. If it is determined that the mobile device is in the enterprise mode the mobile UC Integrated Dialer application determines whether or not the mobile device is docked to the enterprise PBX . If it is determined that the mobile device is not docked in response the call is completed using a transparent Two Stage Dialer . As explained above the transparent Two Stage Dialer is a single number native dialer that bypasses the two stage dialing process and allows the mobile user to access Enterprise PBX features when mobile user is in the undocked state. The transparent Two Stage Dialer uses the wireless cellular network as the primary access medium for voice services.

If the mobile UC Integrated Dialer application determines that the mobile device is docked to the enterprise PBX in response a VoIP dialer is employed to complete the call . The VoIP dialer is an SIP compliant dialer that allows the mobile device to function and behave as an enterprise desk phone when in the docked state and have access to PBX functions such as extension dialing . The VoIP dialer uses the enterprise PBX infrastructure as the primary access medium for voice services.

The audio component is responsible for handling of the bi directional audio data stream to and from the docking station . The audio component is implemented as a part of a media stack not shown and is arranged to communicate with an Audio Daemon not shown on the Docking Station through the local network interface .

The MUCID Phone Daemon is responsible for the interface with a Radio Interface Layer RIL daemon that provides the mobile device with various functionalities e.g. sending Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF and other cellular call control functions . The MUCID Phone Daemon is signed by its original equipment manufacturer OEM and is pre loaded onto the mobile device . The RIL daemon is a software interface that is used in providing communications among the mobile device and cellular wireless networks .

The Mobile UC Integrated Dialer Application contains a SIP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP stack which is used to control communications sessions initiated by the mobile device to the Enterprise PBX.

In addition to the docking station interface that provides communications between the docking station and the mobile device the docking station includes a sounds daemon a commands daemon and a web admin interface . The commands daemon is used to send receive commands to from the MUCID . In some embodiments the messages exchanged among the MUCID and the docking station are binary messages. The sounds daemon is responsible for sending receiving data streams to the audio devices not shown e.g. speaker microphone handset headset that may be present in the docking station . In the docked mode the sounds daemon interfaces the MUCID using TCP IP and UDP IP User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol through the connection made by connecting the docking station interface to the mobile interface . The web admin interface provides the required user interface for configuring the docking station through an administrator system . The web admin is implemented as a web based application on the docking station and interfaces the docking station commands daemon through Linux named pipes. In some embodiments the docking station is only used when the mobile device is docked.

The audio devices may include but are not limited to a speaker a microphone a headset and a handset . In some embodiments in the docked mode these audio devices are connected to the enterprise PBX and provide the mobile device user with access to features of the enterprise PBX via the mobile device .

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

