---

title: Distributed heating transistor devices providing reduced self-heating
abstract: According to various embodiments, a distributed heating transistor includes: a plurality of active regions where transistor action occurs including a heat source; and at least one inactive region where transistor action does not occur and no heat source is present, wherein adjacent active regions are separated by the at least one inactive region. The distributed heating transistor may be configured as field effect transistors (FETs), and bipolar junction transistors (BJTs). Methods for forming the distributed heating transistors are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08912577&OS=08912577&RS=08912577
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08912577
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120919
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payments of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to transistors and in particular to distributed heating DH transistor devices providing reduced self heating.

Electronic devices and integrated circuits have performance limits that are frequently set by the maximum allowable current density voltage electric field and channel or junction temperature. Self heating of these devices is undesirable as it reduces performance and lifetime. The channel temperature Tis correlated with the device lifetime through the Arrhenius equation and may be determined through simulations theoretical models or experimentally. Channel temperature directly affects the bandgap electron mobility electron saturation speed pinch off voltage breakdown voltage transconductance saturation current output power and noise performance.

Reducing Ttypically leads to enhanced device performance and reliable sustainable operation. Heating in transistors may lead to memory effects which cause linearity degradation. Channel temperature is directly proportional to power dissipation through the thermal resistance constants. It also depends critically on the device layout. In the case of field effect transistors FETs and high electron mobility transistors HEMTs Tincreases with the thermal resistance constant and depends on the gate width gate length gate pitch and substrate thickness and thermal conductivity. Transistor heating is a primary cause of memory effects which degrade linearity of power amplifiers especially for modulated signals for instance.

Conventional approaches such as increasing gate pitch dimension result in larger device size and performance degradation especially at millimeter wave frequencies. Additionally transistor heating is a cause of memory effects which degrade linearity of power amplifiers especially for modulated signals.

According to one embodiment a distributed heating transistor includes a plurality of active regions where transistor action occurs including a heat source and at least one inactive region where transistor action does not occur and no heat source is present wherein adjacent active regions are separated by the at least one inactive region.

According to another embodiment a method of fabricating a distributed heating transistor includes forming a plurality of active regions where transistor action occurs including a heat source and at least one inactive region where transistor action does not occur and no heat source is present wherein adjacent active regions are separated by the at least one inactive region.

In various embodiments the distributed heating transistor may be configured as field effect transistors FETs and bipolar junction transistors BJTs . If the transistor is configured as a field effect transistor FET it may include a source a gate and a drain wherein the heat source is in the vicinity of the gate due to the flow of electrons or holes from the source to the drain via the gate and the gate includes a plurality of active region with adjacent active regions being separated by an inactive region. And if the transistor is configured as a bipolar junction transistor BJT it may include an emitter a base and a collector wherein the heat source is in the vicinity of the emitter due to the flow of electrons or holes from the emitter to the collector via the base and the emitter the base and or the collector include a plurality of active regions with adjacent active regions being separated by an inactive region.

According to embodiments of the present invention distributed heating transistors are disclosed in which heat generating regions are separated into several active and inactive regions thereby reducing self heating. Simulations and experimental verification indicate a significant heat reduction as a result of these structures leading to improvements in device performance.

There are two main classifications of transistors in terms of construction and function i field effect transistors FETs and ii bipolar junction transistors BJTs . Both FET and BJT transistors can be implemented in a variety of different ways using different semiconductor materials formed on a substrate by typical semiconductor fabrication processes.

For example Gallium Nitride GaN high electron mobility transistors HEMTs are one implementation of FETs. Similarly Gallium Arsenide GaAs hetero junction bipolar transistors HBTs are an implementation of BJTs. When transistors are operated they consume power from a direct current DC source or from an alternating current AC source. Part of this power is dissipated in the form of heat. Table 1 below shows the electrical schematic and heat source and sink areas for a FET and a BJT respectively. In the table the symbol for a NPN type BJT is shown. A PNP type BJT might be used depending on desired polarity.

Heating in transistors affects the electrical performance adversely in most cases. As such it is desirable to reduce heating temperature. Most of the heating in FETs happens close to the gate junction and in BJTs it happens close to the emitter junction.

The transistor structure may be considered a plurality of highly localized heat sources on a substrate having a thickness t. Here the heat sources represent the gates of the device with a length L a width Wand a gate pitch S. The semiconducting region directly below the gate is called the channel. The semiconducting channel may be formed from a semiconductor material such as gallium nitride GaN for instance. Other semiconductor materials may also be used to form the semiconducting channel. Here the thermal conductivities of the semiconductors and substrate are k and k respectively.

The channel temperature may be calculated using a numerical simulator or the closed form expression. For instance in the temperature in section A of the gate strip may be influenced by a the self heating of the active area in A b the cross heating caused by nearby active sections in the same gate strip such as section B and c the heating effect from neighboring gates such as section C. Reducing the temperature may be accomplished by reducing the self heating from each section and the contributions of near by or adjacent sections.

In the case of section A reducing its self heating may be accomplished by increasing the gate length L and decreasing substrate thickness t and power dissipation per mm of gate width P. In a typical device fabrication process however Land t cannot be readily changed by the designer. Reducing Pby increasing device power added efficiency is a well recognized goal for designers and it is the focus of numerous research groups. Another option is to reduce cross heating from neighboring gate strips e.g. section C which can be achieved by increasing the gate pitch S. Yet this may come at the expense of larger area leading to i wider drain pads thus a larger drain source capacitance C and ii wider source pads thus a greater source inductance L . Increasing C generally reduces bandwidth gain and makes it more difficult to match the output of the device. Similarly increasing Lleads to lower gain because of its negative feedback effect. Additionally increasing the gate pitch may not be advantageous in performance for millimeter wave devices since it results in significant phase discrepancies between the center gate strip and the end gate strips because of the differential signal path length. Thus there is a tradeoff between channel temperature and various electrical performance metrics.

In keeping with the HEMT dimensional designation used in discussing the vertical scale corresponds with width and the horizontal scale corresponds with length. The gate length Lof segments A B and C is the same. Although it should be appreciated that it may be possible to have gate length Ldifferent in one or more of segments A B and C.

Adjacent active gate segments are connected by inactive segments. Here the inactive regions are configured as islands e.g. island D having width x and length w. Although in other embodiments the inactive regions might be differently configured such as for example as pads. For example the islands may be formed of various types of conductors depending on the fabrication process. For some semiconductors gold aluminum tungsten or copper may be used. The metal may include multiple metal layers for instance. In one embodiment a very thin layer of titanium may be deposited first and then a thin layer of gold deposited. The titanium layer may help attachment of the gold to the very smooth semiconductor surface. For silicon based transistors connections may be made using poly silicon a non metal.

In various embodiments Wmay be in the range of 10 1000 m x y and z in the range of 2 50 m and S in the range of 5 300 m for instance.

According to various aspects of the invention reducing the channel temperature of one or more sections along a gate strip for example may be accomplished by decreasing cross heating from nearby sections through sectioning or dissecting the gate into separate areas sections or regions. For instance to reduce the channel temperature of section A the effect of cross heating of adjacent section B will be minimized.

The distributed gate transistor structure may reduce heating at the expense of some increase in device area. The gate and drain capacitances may be composed of an epitaxial based portion main contribution and a geometry based portion minor contribution . The main contribution is provided by active gate segments while the minor contribution is provided by inactive gate segments.

The increase in device area may add to the gate and drain geometry based portion of the capacitances. However it has been found that the increase in area does not produce phase differences in the signal paths among different parallel gate strips. In the region below the rectangular gate areas are active gate regions with widths y and z for end segments. In some embodiments the gate strip may be separated or divided into many segments depending on W. For example for a large W there may be more than 10 segments while for a smaller W there may be less than 10 segments. The gate strip may be referred to as a finger in some instances.

The segments of the gate may be selectively etched or rendered inactive through other processes such as ion implantation to form the inactive regions e.g. islands in the channel depending on the fabrication embodiment utilized. For example to eliminate the thin active layer e.g. epitaxial layer or doped layer an etching process may be used resulting in a mesa structure. Other processes such as ion implantation might also be used to convert the active region into an inactive region. The purpose is to prevent those regions from having a transistor function i.e. they will no longer be active . The length of source and drain strips is u in active segments and v in inactive segments. By choosing v to be less than u for instance it is possible to reduce the contributions of the inactive regions with respect to Cand C. For example in some embodiments Lmay be about 0.1 0.5 m while w may be about 5 10 m to minimize the series resistance of the connecting islands along each gate strip.

Also the metal thickness may be greater in the connecting islands than that in the active gate regions to reduce series resistivity. The additional metal area may slightly increase the series gate capacitance. When compared to conventional HEMT devices the DH HEMT configuration may have a slightly larger area and higher equivalent circuit capacitances and resistances. However as discussed below these factors are generally outweighed by the advantages of the DH transistor structure in achieving lower channel temperatures especially for wide bandgap semiconductor such as GaN and SiC devices where the performance e.g. gain output power or noise is frequently limited by heat dissipation.

For comparison between the conventional HEMT and the DH HEMT according to an embodiment of the present invention the active gate width was kept the same. In the gate width for the DH HEMT is the sum of the active areas i.e. y and z segments . For the DH HEMT the insertion of the metal islands i.e. inactive regions increases the physical gate width not the active gate width of each gate strip. This increases the phase length of each gate strip and may limit performance at higher frequencies. Care should be taken so that the physical gate width of each strip remains a small fraction of a wavelength.

It is noted that and show similar items where shows design layouts and shows photograph of actual device fabricated. The gate strips of the DH HEMT include both active segments and inactive segments. The layouts shown in however do not show all layers in a finished device. In the photographs of gates of the conventional HEMT and DH HEMT are present but the floating air bridge electrically connecting the source islands obscure the gates in the conventional HEMT and the active regions in the gate segments of the DH HEMT. For sake of clarity not all of the gate strips source islands or drains have been annotated in and but are nonetheless shown therein.

To further quantify the discussion consider as an example a GaN SiC HEMT with 0.25 m gate length L 600 m 8 75 m gate periphery 28.5 m gate pitch S 100 m substrate thickness t dissipating 6 W 30 V 200 mA . The inventors used a numerical simulator i.e. ANSYS software with nonlinear thermal conductivity to calculate the channel temperature variation with inactive gate section width x.

As apparent the temperature fluctuation for the DH HEMT is significantly less than that of the conventional HEMT. This is advantageous given that the heat is spread over a wider physical area. Despite the low temperature fluctuation in the DH HEMT the middle sections are to a small extent hotter than those at the edge. This is a consequence of choosing almost equal width for segments y and z. The maximum temperature e.g. in the center can be reduced by choosing z to be larger than y in order to shift heating towards the gate strip edges and away from the center. Designers may also choose to use gate sections of varying widths y y . . . to control undesirable heating at the center or eliminate the active gate section in the center of the HEMT.

Three dimensional 3 D temperature distribution plots for the DH HEMT are shown in . shows a contour plot of channel temperature along a gate strip of the DH HEMT showing the maximum temperature of 153.8 C. shows a 3 D plot of channel temperature along a gate strip of the same DH HEMT corresponding to . This surface plot shows the temperature profile at the top of the HEMT i.e. the area enclosed by the black rectangle at the top .

One concern about using the distribute gate transistor configuration is the increase in device area. However if the total area of a device such as a power amplifier PA Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit MMIC is considered then it becomes apparent that the overall area of the device increases only slightly.

On the other hand designing the MMIC there may be two options to reduce the channel temperature T i increasing gate gap x or ii increasing the gate pitch S.

The device reliability is strongly dependent on channel temperature. It may be determined using the Arrhenius equation as follows 

From the foregoing the inventors appreciated that improved results could be realized by increasing or spreading out the heat generating regions over a larger area. For example a 75 m width gate strip may be sectioned into six active segments having five inactive gate gaps with x 15 m. Thus the total strip width would be 150 m. Alternately the gate could be divided or sectioned into two equal active segments with a single 75 m gap or three equal active segments with two 37.5 m gaps. Other gate configurations e.g. having different number of sections are also possible.

Several HEMTs were fabricated by the inventors for evaluation. The HEMTs included AlGaN GaN HEMT epitaxial layers fabricated on metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD grown 3 inch semi insulating 6H SiC substrates. The material has an AlN nucleation layer on SiC substrates. The epitaxial layers consist of an un doped GaN channel layer an AlN barrier layer an un doped AlGaN layer and a GaN cap layer. Device isolations were formed by a mesa etch using reactive ion etching RIE . In the inactive regions the mesa was etched off. A Ti Al based metal stack and a Rapid Thermal Anneal RTA at 850 C. were used for source and drain ohmic contacts. Contact resistances were measured to be less than 0.4 ohm mm. SiNwas used for surface passivation. Gate openings were defined by electron beam e beam lithography. Gates were recessed using an inductively coupled plasma ICP etch followed by Pt Au metal deposition. In the DH HEMT the gate islands inactive regions can be formed using ohmic metal.

In some instances it may be more advantageous to add two or more metals deposited in multiple steps to reduce the resistivity. For example the first metal may be a thin layer of metal to help the adhesion of the thicker second metal layer onto the surface of the semiconductor material. The second metal layer may be deposited on top of first metal to make it thicker and reduce the metal resistance loss thus improving the device electrical performance. The HEMTs were designed for 30 V operation and small devices 4 50 m had power gain of 11.3 dB and power density of 5.6 W mm at 10 GHz.

HEMTs with a total active gate width of 600 m 8 75 m per strip are described. Data from three DH HEMTs with gate gaps of 10 m 20 m and 30 m is shown.

At full bias approximately 30 V the difference in fbetween the regular HEMT and the DH HEMTs is not very significant. In fact the DH HEMT with x 10 m outperforms the regular HEMT. For the DH HEMTs with x 20 m and 30 m the larger Cand Cresult in a lower f. The equivalent circuit was extracted to find the capacitance dependence on gate gap.

The increase in capacitances is generally moderate and linear. A linear fit was added to each case. The growth of capacitances can probably be reduced through a more careful layout or the use of some airbridges. Therefore impedance match to the DH HEMT is similar to a conventional HEMT. The output power at 1 dB compression Pof all the devices was measured at 10 GHz using a load pull system.

The results show significant performance enhancement at 10 GHz. Up to 3 dB increase in output power is observed at 30 V bias. Compared to a conventional HEMT the fabricated DH GaN HEMT demonstrated a decrease in channel temperature from 178 C. to 150 C. accompanied by a 3 dB increase in output power and a thirteen fold increase in lifetime. The reduction in heating comes at the expense of a moderate increase in device area and capacitance.

While the experiments of the inventors described herein where primary directed to an AlGaN GaN HEMT devices it is believed that other semiconductors e.g. Si GaAs SiC etc. should provide similar performance for various transistor devices such as DH HEMTs and DH FETs independent of the fabrication process.

Various transistors may be configured to include a distributed heating transistor according to embodiments of the present invention. In some embodiments the DH transistor may be configured as a FET such as a HEMT a pseudomorphic HEMT pHEMT a metal oxide field effect transistor MOSFET or a metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET . For example high voltage e.g. 28 V or more GaAs pseudomorphic HEMT pHEMT devices may benefit by the present invention given that self heating is the main limiting factor for these devices. In other embodiments the DH transistor may be configured as a BJT such as a heterojuction bipolar transistor HBT which has more significant heating issues compared to FET structures in some instances.

To reduce the FET s temperature an improved DH transistor layout is introduced where the active regions i.e. where heat is generated are separated by inactive regions i.e. where no heating happens in the gate strip according to embodiments of the present invention. More particularly the flow of electrons from the source to the drain is permitted in the active regions while being substantially prevented in the inactive regions. The FET with the improved layout may be referred to as a distributed heating FET transistor because the heat generating areas are distributed over a larger physical area which results in a lower temperature of operation.

Moreover while appear to show a planar top surface in reality the fabricated transistor device may not be so. Indeed the figures are not to scale. The thin layers when fabricated may lead to a dimpling effect or slight depression not shown in the vicinity of the inactive gate regions because the material may be deposited onto a non planer e.g. mesa surface structure.

Bipolar junction transistors may be similarly improved by using an improved DH transistor layout in which there are active and inactive regions formed in the vicinity of the emitter.

The distributed emitter bipolar junction transistor shown is comprised of an emitter finger resting on a base finger which in turn rests on a collector. To reduce BJT s temperature the DH BJT layout is introduced where the active regions i.e. where heat is generated are separated by inactive regions i.e. where no heating happens according to embodiments of the present invention. More particularly the flow of electrons or holes from the emitter to the collector via the base is permitted in the active regions but substantially prevented in the inactive regions.

The emitter base and or collector may be segmented to provide a plurality of active segments with adjacent active segments being separated by an inactive segment. As shown the base and collector have both been segmented to provide the active segments and inactive segments. The heat generating areas of the DH BJT are distributed over a larger physical area which results in a lower temperature of operation.

In addition metal may be plated or otherwise deposited on top of the emitter to reduce emitter resistance in some embodiments. Embodiments of the DH FET might also include a plated metal layer to reduce the gate resistance.

The DH transistors may be included in various electronic devices. The device may further be provided with matching circuits at the input and output of the device to form an active circuit such as an amplifier. In some instance the device and circuits passive elements may be fabricated in the same process sequence and on a same chip.

Aspects related to the invention are disclosed in the following article Darwish A. M. Hung H. A. Ibrahim A. A. AlGaN GaN HEMT With Distributed Gate for Channel Temperature Reduction IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques Vol. 60 No. 4 pp. 1038 1043 April 2012 available online Feb. 17 2012 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above and associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

