---

title: Browser-based prevention of unsecure online transmission of sensitive information
abstract: A device receives, from an online provider device, content of a website and connection information associated with the website, and provides the content of the website for display to a user. The device also receives, from the user, information requested by the website and a request to provide the information to the online provider device, and determines whether the information includes sensitive information. The device further provides the information to the online provider device, based on the request, when the information does not include sensitive information, and determines, when the information includes sensitive information, whether the website is safe or unsafe based on the connection information. The device provides a warning for display to the user, when the information includes sensitive information and when the website is an unsafe website, where the warning indicates that sensitive information is to be transmitted to the unsafe website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887245&OS=08887245&RS=08887245
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08887245
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121217
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 based on U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 580 795 filed Dec. 28 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The Internet or World Wide Web web contains a vast amount of information and is a dangerous place for users who are not familiar with the security issues presented by the Internet. Several online activities require submission of sensitive information such as social security numbers bank passwords credit card numbers personal information etc. in web forms to online providers e.g. websites . Most online providers enable safe and secure transmissions of such sensitive information. However certain online providers utilize the sensitive information for improper purposes such as credit card theft identity theft and fraud purposes etc. Thus these unscrupulous online providers do not provide for safe and secure transmissions of sensitive information.

It is difficult to protect users against the threat of improper use of sensitive information for a variety of reasons. One reason that it is difficult to protect users is that many users lack the awareness to be able to distinguish between trustworthy online providers and untrustworthy online providers. For example inexperienced Internet users find it difficult to identify whether a website s connection is secure or is not secure. Even experienced Internet users forget to check for website security indicators such as secure socket layer SSL indicators or do not know that such security indicators exist. Furthermore these website security indicators provide a variety of confusing security information that even the savviest Internet users may not fully understand.

According to one possible implementation a method may include receiving by a device and from an online provider device website information associated with a website and connection information associated with the website providing by the device the website for display to a user and receiving by the device and from the user information and a request to provide the information to the online provider device. The method may also include determining by the device whether the information includes sensitive information determining by the device and when the information includes sensitive information whether the website is safe or unsafe based on the website information and the connection information and providing by the device and when the website is an unsafe website a warning for display to the user where the warning indicates that sensitive information is to be transmitted to the unsafe website.

According to another possible implementation a device may include one or more processors to receive from an online provider device content of a website and connection information associated with the website provide the content of the website for display to a user receive from the user information requested by the website and a request to provide the information to the online provider device determine whether the information includes sensitive information provide the information to the online provider device based on the request when the information does not include sensitive information determine when the information includes sensitive information whether the website is safe or unsafe based on the connection information and provide a warning for display to the user when the information includes sensitive information and when the website is an unsafe website where the warning indicates that sensitive information is to be transmitted to the unsafe website.

According to yet another possible implementation a computer readable medium may include one or more instructions that when executed by one or more processors of a device cause the one or more processors to receive one or more lists of unsafe websites and one or more lists of safe websites receive from an online provider device content of a website and connection information associated with the website provide the content of the website for display to a user receive from the user information requested by the website receive from the user a request to provide the information to the online provider device determine whether the information includes sensitive information provide the information to the online provider device based on the request when the information does not include sensitive information determine when the information includes sensitive information whether the website is safe or unsafe based on the connection information the one or more lists of unsafe websites and the one or more lists of safe websites and provide a warning for display to the user when the information includes sensitive information and when the website is an unsafe website where the warning indicates that sensitive information is to be transmitted to the unsafe website.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

In the description to follow reference will be made to documents and websites. A document as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine readable and machine storable work product. A document may include for example an e mail a file a combination of files one or more files with embedded links to other files a news group posting a blog a web advertisement a Uniform Resource Locator URL etc. In the context of the Internet a common document is a web page. Web pages often include textual information and may include embedded information such as meta information images hyperlinks etc. and or embedded instructions such as Javascript etc. A website as used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include a collection of related documents such as documents associated with a same host domain or organization. For example the collection of related documents might include all or a subset of the documents associated with a traditional website directory or sub directory or some other set of documents that are related to each other on the same host or domain or associated with the same organization.

As used herein the term user is intended to be broadly interpreted to include a client device or a user of a client device.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable a browser to warn an unsuspecting user when the user is attempting to submit sensitive information in an unsafe environment such as to an untrustworthy and or unsecure website. The browser may also prevent the user from submitting the sensitive information to the unsafe environment. The sensitive information may include personal information e.g. a social security number an address a driver s license number etc. financial information e.g. a credit card number a bank account number a tax identification etc. and or other information e.g. passwords personal identification numbers PINs etc. . The sensitive information if made public to an untrustworthy website may compromise the user s financial accounts identity etc. To further protect the sensitive information the browser may be a trusted intermediary of the sensitive information and may only disclose the sensitive information to trustworthy and or secure websites.

For example in one implementation as shown in a user of a client device such as a desktop computer may utilize a browser to access a website. The website may request that the user input sensitive information to the website and transmit the sensitive information to an online provider of the website. For example the website may request that the user submit credit card information in order to complete an online purchase. The browser may identify the sensitive information and may determine whether the website is trustworthy and or secure before transmitting the sensitive information to the online provider. If the browser determines that the website is an unsafe environment i.e. is untrustworthy and or unsecure the browser may provide a warning to the user. The warning may inform the user that sensitive information is about to be submitted in an unsafe environment and may request that the user confirm whether to submit the sensitive information to the website.

Alternatively or additionally the user may input the sensitive information to the client device and the client device may securely store the information in the browser. As further shown in when the user visits a website of a trusted online provider the online provider may provide a request such as an application programming interface API call to the browser. The request may request that the browser provide some or all of the stored sensitive information to the trusted online provider. If the browser determines that the online provider is trustworthy and or secure the browser may automatically provide the stored sensitive information to the trusted online provider. However if an untrusted online provider provides a similar request to the browser the browser may determine that the online provider is untrustworthy and or unsecure and may deny the request for the sensitive information.

The description to follow will describe functionality included as part of a web browser referred to herein as a browser . It should be understood that the description may equally apply to other implementations. For example the browser functionality may be implemented as a browser assistant that may include executable code such as a plug in an applet a dynamic link library DLL an extension or a similar type of executable object or process that operates in conjunction with or separately from a browser. In one example implementation the browser assistant may take the form of an add on for a browser a selectable object embedded within a document currently being displayed within a browser window or a function included within a frame within a browser window. Alternatively or additionally other mechanisms which may or may not be integrated within a browser may also be used to provide the browser functionality described herein.

Client device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal that may combine for example a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a workstation computer a gaming system a set top box STB a television or other types of computation and communication devices. In one example client device may include a device that is capable of communicating with online providers and or server device via network .

Browser may include any type of web browser such as Google s Chrome . In one example browser may be executed by client device and the functionality of browser may be provided to a user of client device such as via a display of client device . In one example implementation functionality described herein as being performed by browser may be performed by client device executing browser .

Online provider may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. In one example implementation each of online providers may include one or more devices associated with a provider of online services such as an entertainment provider e.g. a provider of music movies etc. a search provider an online shopping website provider an online finance or online banking website provider an online health website provider etc. Online providers may provide the online services to a user of client device via browser . For example if online provider sells merchandise online online provider may provide via browser listings of merchandise or services for purchase by the user. At particular times online providers may request sensitive information from a user of client device browser . For example during checkout the merchandise online provider may request that the user provide credit card information to online provider in order to complete a purchase of merchandise or a service.

Some online providers may be considered safe or trusted online providers since such online providers may be trustworthy and or may provide a secure connection for transmission of the user s sensitive information. Other online providers may be considered unsafe or untrusted online providers since such online providers may be untrustworthy and or may provide an unsecure connection for transmission of the user s sensitive information.

Server device may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. In one example implementation server device may provide to browser one or more lists of untrustworthy websites and or online providers e.g. referred to herein as blacklists one or more lists of trustworthy websites and or online providers e.g. referred to herein as whitelists and or other information that may provide an indication of a trustworthiness or untrustworthiness of websites and or online providers . For example the blacklists may include lists of websites with known unscrupulous behavior such as websites known to generate spam i.e. unsolicited bulk messages that are indiscriminately sent phishing websites i.e. websites that attempt to acquire sensitive information by masquerading as trustworthy websites websites reported to the Better Business Bureau etc. The whitelists for example may include lists of trusted websites such as websites that are certified by an accreditation agency e.g. the Better Business Bureau etc.

Network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a cellular network an intranet the Internet an optical fiber or fiber optic based network or a combination of networks.

Although shows example devices networks of network in other implementations network may include fewer devices networks different devices networks differently arranged devices networks or additional devices networks than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more devices networks of network may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other devices networks of network .

Computing device may include a processor a memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to a low speed expansion port and a storage device . Each of components and are interconnected using various buses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. Processor can process instructions for execution within computing device including instructions stored in memory or on storage device to display graphical information for a graphical user interface GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system etc.

Memory stores information within computing device . In one implementation memory includes a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation memory may include a non volatile memory unit or units. Memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk. A computer readable medium may refer to a non transitory memory device. A memory device may refer to storage space within a single storage device or spread across multiple storage devices.

Storage device is capable of providing mass storage for computing device . In one implementation storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described herein. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as memory storage device or a memory on processor .

High speed interface manages bandwidth intensive operations for computing device while low speed interface manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is only an example. In one implementation high speed interface is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In this implementation low speed interface may be coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . Low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet etc. may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

Computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example computing device may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. Computing device may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition computing device may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as mobile computing device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing devices and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Mobile computing device may include a processor a memory an input output I O device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. Mobile computing device may also be provided with a storage device such as a micro drive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

Processor can execute instructions within mobile computing device including instructions stored in memory . Processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. Processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of mobile computing device such as control of user interfaces applications run by mobile computing device and wireless communication by mobile computing device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . Display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. Display interface may include appropriate circuitry for driving display to present graphical and other information to a user. Control interface may receive commands from a user and convert the commands for submission to processor . In addition an external interface may be provided in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of mobile computing device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

Memory stores information within mobile computing device . Memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to mobile computing device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for mobile computing device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described herein and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provided as a security module for mobile computing device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of mobile computing device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

Expansion memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as memory expansion memory or a memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Mobile computing device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to mobile computing device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert the received spoken information to digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of mobile computing device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example mobile computing device may be implemented as a cellular telephone . Mobile computing device may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described herein can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementations in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium refer to any apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described herein can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described herein can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

As further shown in a user may be associated with client device and may interact with client device via browser . Browser and online provider may establish a website connection with each other so that online provider may present a website to user via browser . Information associated with website connection may be provided to browser and browser may receive the information. The information associated with website connection may include information identifying whether website connection is a secure connection a broken connection or an unsecure connection information identifying whether encryption associated with website connection is current or outdated information identifying whether a certificate associated with website connection is trusted or untrusted e.g. invalid expired self signed by online provider etc. etc.

Online provider may provide website information to browser . Browser may receive website information and may display website information to user via a display of client device . Website information may include information associated with the website provided by online provider to browser . For example if online provider is an online shopping website provider website information may include information associated with merchandise or services offered for sale by the online shopping website provider. Alternatively or additionally if online provider is an online banking website provider website information may include information associated with banking services e.g. online checking online bill paying etc. offered by the online banking website provider. Website information may also include information identifying whether encryption associated with website connection is current or outdated information identifying whether a certificate associated with website connection is trusted or untrusted etc.

As further shown in user may provide information to browser and browser may receive information . Information may include information requested by online provider via the website provided by online provider . For example information may include a name an address credit card information etc. associated with user that online provider requests in order to complete an online transaction e.g. a purchase of merchandise . Server device may periodically and automatically provide website lists to browser or may provide website lists in response to browser requesting website lists . Website lists may include one or more blacklists one or more whitelists and or other information that may provide an indication of a trustworthiness or untrustworthiness of the website and or online provider .

User may request that information be provided to online provider . For example if user entered information into fields of the website provided by online provider user may request that the entered information be provided to online provider via a submit mechanism e.g. a button an icon a link etc. . Prior to providing information to online provider browser may determine whether information contains any sensitive information such as a credit card number a social security number a password a PIN a driver s license number etc. Further details of how browser makes this determination are provided below in connection with . If browser determines that information does not contain sensitive information browser may provide information to online provider as shown in .

However if browser determines that information includes sensitive information browser may determine whether the website provided by online provider is safe or unsafe based on the information associated with website connection website information and or website lists . Further details of how browser makes this determination are provided below in connection with . If browser determines that the website provided by online provider is safe browser may provide information including the sensitive information to online provider . However if browser determines that the website provided by online provider is unsafe browser may display to user a warning that indicates that sensitive information is about to be transmitted to an unsafe website. User may heed warning and elect to not provide information to online provider or may ignore warning and elect to provide information to online provider . Alternatively or additionally browser may prevent information from being provided to online provider when information contains sensitive information and the website is unsafe. Such an arrangement may prevent user from ignoring warning and unwittingly providing information to online provider .

In one example implementation browser may enable user to elect to provide only non sensitive information provided in information to online provider when information contains sensitive and non sensitive information and the website is unsafe. In such an arrangement browser may prevent the sensitive information provided in information from being provided to online provider .

Although shows example components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

Sensitive information determination component may receive information and may determine whether information contains sensitive information. Sensitive information may include information that if made public to an untrustworthy website may compromise the user s financial accounts identity etc. For example sensitive information may include personal information of user e.g. a social security number a name a mailing address a driver s license number a passport identification etc. financial information of user e.g. a credit card number a credit card verification value CVV a credit card expiration date a bank account number a password for a bank account a debit card number a tax identification etc. medical information of user e.g. a medical record number a group number medical conditions etc. online payment verification system information of user e.g. a PayPal username and password etc. and or other information associated with user e.g. passwords PINs etc. .

Sensitive information determination component may determine whether information contains sensitive information in a variety of ways. In one example implementation sensitive information determination component may utilize pattern recognition such as classification regression sequence labeling parsing etc. to determine whether information includes sensitive information. For example if information includes numbers with a particular format such as a credit card number e.g. 1234 5678 9123 4567 or a social security number e.g. 123 45 6789 the pattern recognition may be able to identify with high confidence such information as sensitive information. The pattern recognition may also be used to identify alphanumeric information with a particular format such as a mailing address that takes the form of a house number a street name a city name a state name and a zip code.

Sensitive information determination component may also utilize information obtained from the website provided by online provider to determine whether information includes sensitive information. For example if information is entered in a website field next to the words social security number sensitive information determination component may determine that the entered information is a social security number and thus sensitive information.

If information includes passwords e.g. to other websites with no particular format the pattern recognition may not be able to identify with high confidence such information as sensitive information. However browser may store a list of passwords associated with user e.g. passwords used for automatically filling in online information and sensitive information determination component may compare the passwords to the list. Passwords that match the list may be identified as sensitive information by sensitive information determination component . If user utilizes a particular password to sign into browser for synchronization of email address book calendar etc. information from client device with information of another client device e.g. a mobile device sensitive information determination component may compare the particular password to information . If the particular password matches some or all of information sensitive information determination component may determine that information contains sensitive information. Browser may also utilize a list of common terms e.g. the and or etc. to prevent sensitive information determination component from determining such common terms as sensitive information.

Alternatively or additionally sensitive information determination component may utilize heuristic recognition such as contextual recognition to determine whether information includes sensitive information. For example if sensitive information determination component identifies a mailing address in information and identifies a number pattern after the mailing address sensitive information determination component may utilize this contextual information to determine that the number pattern may be a credit card number. If sensitive information determination component identifies unique or unidentifiable information after a mailing address in information sensitive information determination component may determine that the unique information is most likely sensitive information. In another example sensitive information determination component may determine a three digit number identified after an identified credit card number to be a CVV number and thus sensitive information. If one or more portions e.g. fields of information are determined to include sensitive information sensitive information determination component may determine whether the number of fields is greater than a particular threshold number that may be automatically set by browser or manually set by user . If the number of fields containing sensitive information is greater than the particular threshold number sensitive information determination component may determine that other fields of information contain sensitive information.

As further shown in if sensitive information determination component identifies sensitive information in a portion of information or in a threshold amount of information sensitive information determination component may provide to warning generation component an indication that information includes sensitive information. If sensitive information determination component fails to identify sensitive information in a portion of information or in a threshold amount of information sensitive information determination component may provide to warning generation component an indication that information does not include sensitive information.

Environment determination component may receive the information associated with website connection website information and website lists and may determine whether the website provided by online provider is safe or unsafe based on the received information. Environment determination component may determine whether the website is safe or unsafe in a variety of ways. In one example implementation environment determination component may analyze the information associated with website connection to determine whether the website is safe or unsafe. For example if the information associated with website connection indicates that website connection is not a secure connection e.g. a SSL connection environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If the information associated with website connection indicates that website connection is a secure connection environment determination component may determine the website to be safe. If the information associated with website connection indicates that website connection is a secure connection but that the secure connection is broken environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe.

Alternatively or additionally environment determination component may analyze website information to determine whether the website is safe or unsafe. For example if website information indicates that an encryption associated with the website is outdated environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If website information indicates that the encryption associated with the website is current environment determination component may determine the website to be safe. If website information indicates that a certificate associated with the website is not trusted e.g. invalid expired self signed etc. environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If website information indicates that the certificate associated with the website is valid and trusted environment determination component may determine the website to be safe.

Alternatively or additionally environment determination component may analyze website lists to determine whether the website is safe or unsafe. For example if website lists indicate that the website is listed on a blacklist included in website lists environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If website lists indicate that the website is listed on a whitelist included in website lists environment determination component may determine the website to be safe.

Alternatively or additionally environment determination component may analyze the results of the determinations made with respect to the information associated with website connection website information and website lists and may determine whether the website is safe or unsafe based upon the analysis.

As further shown in if environment determination component determines that the website is unsafe environment determination component may provide to warning generation component an indication that the website constitutes an unsafe environment. If environment determination component determines that the website is safe environment determination component may provide to warning generation component an indication that the website constitutes a safe environment.

Warning generation component may receive sensitive information indication or no sensitive information indication from sensitive information determination component and may receive unsafe environment indication or safe environment indication from environment determination component . As further shown in warning generation component may receive from user a request to submit information to online provider . Warning generation component may respond to request in a number of ways depending upon the indications received from sensitive information determination component and environment determination component . For example if warning generation component receives sensitive information indication and safe environment indication warning generation component may provide information to online provider . If warning generation component receives sensitive information indication and unsafe environment indication warning generation component may provide warning to user and or may prevent information from being provided to online provider . If warning generation component receives no sensitive information indication and either unsafe environment indication or safe environment indication warning generation component may provide information to online provider .

Although shows example functional components of browser in other implementations browser may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of browser may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of browser .

As shown in user interface may provide information that a user may manipulate to configure security settings for sensitive information. For example user interface may enable the user to set a security level for sensitive information as indicated by reference number . The security level may be set to low medium or high or using some other type of level designation by the user and the set security level may alter the functionality of sensitive information determination component . For example a low security level may cause sensitive information determination component to consider a user s name address and telephone number as not sensitive. A medium security level may cause sensitive information determination component to consider the user s name as not sensitive but to consider the address and the telephone number as sensitive. A high security level may cause sensitive information determination component to consider the user s name address and telephone number as sensitive.

User interface may enable the user to set whether the user wants browser to prevent transmission of sensitive information issue a warning about sensitive information before transmission or perform both operations as indicated by reference number . For example if the user selects the Prevent button and browser determines that the user wants to provide sensitive information to online provider browser may prevent client device from providing the sensitive information to online provider . If the user selects the Warning button and browser determines that the user wants to provide sensitive information to online provider browser may provide warning to the user.

As further shown in user interface may enable the user to prevent browser from issuing warnings e.g. warning when browser determines that the user wants to provide sensitive information to online provider as indicated by reference number . For example if the user selects the Yes button and browser determines that the user wants to provide sensitive information to online provider browser may not provide warning to the user. If the user selects the No button and browser determines that the user wants to provide sensitive information to online provider browser may provide warning to the user. As indicated by reference number user interface also may enable the user to select a type of warning such as for example a popup window a balloon a new browser window etc.

As shown in user interface may include a website provided by online provider to browser . In one example website may be generated by browser based on website information received from online provider . As further shown website may provide an online form that requests information from the user such as a name an address a credit card type a credit card number shipping and handling information etc. associated with the user. The user may input the information requested by online form and browser may automatically determine whether the provided information contains any sensitive information. Browser may make this determination in the manner described above in connection with . In one example as shown in browser may determine that the credit card type and the credit card number constitute sensitive information .

Browser may also determine whether website is safe or unsafe in the manner described above in connection with . In this example it may be assumed that browser determined that website is unsafe. The user may utilize a selection mechanism such as a submit button to transmit the information provided in online form to online provider . However since browser determined that sensitive information is provided in online form and that website is unsafe browser may generate user interface of before transmitting the information provided in online form to online provider .

As shown in user interface may include a warning window that warns the user that sensitive information is about to be transmitted in an unsafe environment e.g. website to online provider . Warning window may also ask whether the user wants to continue and provide the information from online form including sensitive information to online provider . If the user selects a Yes button the user may effectively ignore warning window and browser may provide the information from online form including sensitive information to online provider . If the user selects a No button the user may effectively heed warning window and browser may not provide the information from online form including sensitive information to online provider .

Although user interfaces of depict a variety of information in other implementations user interfaces may depict less information different information differently arranged information or additional information than depicted in .

As further shown in a user may be associated with client device and may interact with client device via browser . Server device may perform a formal certification process of websites provided by online providers to determine whether the websites and or online providers are trusted i.e. safe or untrusted i.e. unsafe online providers . For example server device may determine that a website provided by trusted online provider is on one or more whitelists is not on one or more blacklists etc. and may determine that the website and or trusted online provider are trusted as indicated by reference number . Alternatively or additionally server device may determine that a website provided by untrusted online provider is not on one or more whitelists is on one or more blacklists etc. and may determine that the website and or trusted online provider are untrusted as indicated by reference number . Based on the formal certification process server device may periodically and automatically provide website lists to browser or in response to browser requesting website lists . Website lists may include one or more lists of untrusted websites provided by online providers one or more lists of trusted websites provided by online providers and or other information that may provide an indication of a trustworthiness or untrustworthiness of the websites and or online providers .

As further shown in user may provide information to browser and browser may receive information . Information may include information that may be automatically provided to trusted online provider when requested by trusted online provider . For example information may include a name an address credit card information etc. associated with user that online provider may request in order to complete an online transaction e.g. a purchase of merchandise or a service . Browser may determine whether information contains any sensitive information such as a credit card number a social security number a password a PIN a driver s license number etc. Further details of how browser makes this determination are provided below in connection with . Browser may store the sensitive information contained in information when browser determines that information includes sensitive information. Alternatively or additionally browser may store information regardless of whether browser determines that information includes sensitive information.

Browser and trusted online provider may establish a website connection with each other so that trusted online provider may display a website to user via browser . Trusted online provider may provide website information to browser . Browser may receive website information and may display website information to user via a display of client device . Website information may include information associated with the website provided by trusted online provider to browser . For example if trusted online provider is an online pharmacy website information may include information associated with products offered for sale by the online pharmacy. Website information may also include website connection information such as information identifying whether the website connection is a secure connection a broken connection or an unsecure connection information identifying whether encryption associated with the website connection is current or outdated information identifying whether a certificate associated with the website connection is trusted or untrusted e.g. invalid expired self signed by trusted online provider etc. etc.

In one example user may utilize the website provided by trusted online provider to order a product or a service from trusted online provider . As further shown in and in order to complete the order of the product or service trusted online provider may provide a request to browser and browser may receive request . Request may include a request for information stored by browser such as a request for the sensitive information included in information . In one example request may include an API call that may be used to establish a secure e.g. encrypted communication channel between browser and trusted online provider .

Prior to providing information to trusted online provider in response to request browser may determine whether the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted or untrusted based on website information and or website lists . Further details of how browser makes this determination are provided below in connection with . In one example browser may determine that the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted. Thus browser may provide information including the sensitive information to trusted online provider in a secure manner such as via the trusted communication channel established with trusted online provider .

Browser and untrusted online provider may establish a website connection with each other so that untrusted online provider may display a website to user via browser . Untrusted online provider may provide website information to browser . Browser may receive website information and may display website information to user via a display of client device . Website information may include information associated with the website provided by untrusted online provider to browser . Website information may also include website connection information such as information identifying whether the website connection is a secure connection a broken connection or an unsecure connection information identifying whether encryption associated with the website connection is current or outdated information identifying whether a certificate associated with the website connection is trusted or untrusted etc.

In one example user may utilize the website provided by untrusted online provider to purchase merchandise from untrusted online provider . As further shown in and in order to complete the merchandise purchase untrusted online provider may provide a request to browser and browser may receive request . Request may include a request for information stored by browser such as a request for the sensitive information included in information .

Prior to providing information to untrusted online provider in response to request browser may determine whether the website provided by untrusted online provider is trusted or untrusted based on website information and or website lists . In one example browser may determine that the website provided by untrusted online provider is untrusted and may display to user a warning that indicates that the website is untrusted. User may heed the warning and elect to not provide information to untrusted online provider or may ignore the warning and elect to provide information to untrusted online provider . Alternatively or additionally browser may prevent information from being provided to untrusted online provider when information contains sensitive information and the website is untrusted.

The arrangement depicted in may enable browser to mediate access to sensitive information stored by browser which may provide for a more sophisticated disclosure of the sensitive information. Browser may provide the sensitive information to trusted online providers via a secure communication channel to ensure that the sensitive information is adequately protected and to guarantee to user the safety of the sensitive information transmission. In one example implementation browser may not prevent user from performing online transactions in a traditional manner such as via manual provision of a name a mailing address credit card information etc. Rather the functionality of browser described herein may be utilized in conjunction with the traditional mechanisms used for performing online transactions.

Unlike online payment verification systems e.g. PayPal which seek to protect users from untrustworthy websites the functionality of browser described herein may actually identify the untrustworthy websites to the users and may prevent the users from interacting with the untrustworthy websites. However browser may interface with such payment verification systems in order to obtain the sensitive information associated with user .

Although shows example components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

Sensitive information determination component may receive information and may determine whether information contains sensitive information . Sensitive information may include information that if made public to an untrustworthy website may compromise the user s financial accounts identity etc. For example sensitive information may include personal information of user financial information of user medical information of user online payment verification system information of user and or other information associated with user .

Sensitive information determination component may include the features of sensitive information determination component . Thus sensitive information determiner may determine whether information contains sensitive information by utilizing pattern recognition techniques heuristic recognition techniques etc. As further shown in sensitive information determination component may provide sensitive information to sensitive information memory for storage. Alternatively or additionally sensitive information determination component may provide information to sensitive information memory for storage although not shown in .

Sensitive information memory may include one or more storage devices that may store information received by and or provided to browser . For example sensitive information memory may receive and store information and or sensitive information .

Trusted untrusted website determination component may receive website lists website information and request and may determine whether the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted or untrusted based on the received information. Trusted untrusted website determination component may determine whether the website is trusted or untrusted in a variety of ways. In one example implementation trusted untrusted website determination component may analyze website lists to determine whether the website is trusted or untrusted. For example if website lists indicate that the website is listed on a blacklist included in website lists trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If website lists indicate that the website is listed on a whitelist included in website lists trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be trusted.

Alternatively or additionally trusted untrusted website determination component may analyze website information to determine whether the website is trusted or untrusted. For example if website information indicates that encryption associated with the website is outdated trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If website information indicates that the encryption associated with the website is current trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be trusted. If website information indicates that a certificate associated with the website is not trusted e.g. invalid expired self signed etc. trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If website information indicates that the certificate associated with the website is valid and trusted trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be trusted.

Alternatively or additionally trusted untrusted website determination component may analyze the website connection information e.g. provided in website information to determine whether the website is trusted or untrusted. For example if the website connection information indicates that the website connection is not a secure connection trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If the website connection information indicates that the website connection is a secure connection trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be trusted. If the website connection information indicates that the website connection is a secure connection but that the secure connection is broken trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted.

Alternatively or additionally trusted untrusted website determination component may analyze the results of the determinations made with respect to website lists website information and the website connection information and may determine whether the website is trusted or untrusted based upon the analysis.

As further shown in trusted untrusted website determination component may receive website information and request and may determine whether the website provided by untrusted online provider is trusted or untrusted based on website lists website information and the website connection information provided in website information . In one example implementation trusted untrusted website determination component may determine whether the website provided by untrusted online provider is trusted or untrusted in a similar manner as described above for the website provided by trusted online provider .

In one example trusted untrusted website determination component may determine that trusted online provider provides a trusted environment and may determine that untrusted online provider does not provide a trusted environment. Accordingly trusted untrusted website determination component may retrieve sensitive information from sensitive information memory as indicated by reference number and may provide sensitive information to trusted online provider . Trusted untrusted website determination component may not provide sensitive information to untrusted online provider but instead may provide to untrusted online provider an indication that request is denied. Alternatively or additionally trusted untrusted website determination component may display to user a warning that indicates that the website provided by untrusted online provider is untrusted. User may heed the warning and elect to not provide sensitive information to untrusted online provider or may ignore the warning and elect to provide sensitive information to untrusted online provider .

Although shows example functional components of browser in other implementations browser may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of browser may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of browser .

As shown in user interface may include a website provided by trusted online provider to browser . In one example the website may be generated by browser based on website information received from trusted online provider . As further shown the website may provide information associated with merchandise to be purchased from trusted online provider . Browser may display information that indicates that the website is trusted and secure. Information may also request the user to determine whether to automatically populate an online form provided by the website. Online form for example may request information from the user such as a name an address a credit card type a credit card number shipping and handling information etc. associated with the user. If the user elects to automatically populate online form e.g. via selection of a Yes button browser may retrieve the information requested by online form from sensitive information memory and may automatically populate online form . The user may utilize a selection mechanism such as a submit button to transmit the information provided in online form to trusted online provider .

As shown in user interface may include a job application of a website provided by trusted online provider to browser . In one example the website may be generated by browser based on website information received from trusted online provider . As further shown browser may display information that indicates that the website is trusted and secure. Information may also request the user to determine whether to automatically populate an online job application form provided by the website. Online job application form for example may request information from the user such as a name an address a social security number a tax ID etc. associated with the user. If the user elects to automatically populate online job application form e.g. via selection of a Yes button browser may retrieve the information requested by online job application form from sensitive information memory and may automatically populate online job application form . The user may utilize a selection mechanism such as a submit button to transmit the job application information provided in online form to trusted online provider .

As shown in user interface may include a website provided by untrusted online provider to browser . In one example the website may be generated by browser based on website information received from untrusted online provider . As further shown the website may provide information associated with merchandise to be purchased from untrusted online provider . Browser may display a warning that indicates that the website is not trusted or secure. Warning may also indicate that if the user wishes to continue the user must manually provide the information requested by an online form provided by the website. Online form for example may request information from the user such as a name an address a credit card type a credit card number an expiration date of the credit card etc. associated with the user. If the user ignores warning and manually enters the information requested by online form the user may utilize a selection mechanism such as a submit button to transmit the information provided in online form to untrusted online provider .

As shown in user interface may include a website provided by trusted online provider to browser . In one example the website may be generated by browser based on website information received from trusted online provider . As further shown the website may provide a shopping cart that includes information associated with goods e.g. a hammer for 10.00 nails for 5.00 etc. to be purchased from trusted online provider by the user. The website may also provide a selection mechanism such as a checkout button which enables the user to complete the purchase of the goods provided in shopping cart .

When the user selects checkout button trusted online provider may provide request to browser and browser may receive request . Request may include a request for information stored by browser such as a request for the sensitive information included in information . Prior to providing information to trusted online provider in response to request browser may determine whether the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted or untrusted based on website information and or website lists . In one example browser may determine that the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted and may display an information exchange confirmation window to the user as shown in user interface of .

Information exchange confirmation window may indicate that the website would like to access information stored by browser as indicated by reference number . As further shown by reference number information exchange confirmation window may indicate that if the user consents information may be transferred to trusted online provider over a secure connection and that the website is on a trusted stores list. The user may elect to send information to trusted online provider via a selection mechanism e.g. a button that states Yes send my information . Alternatively the user may elect not to send information to trusted online provider via another selection mechanism e.g. a button that states No please don t send .

If the user elects to send information to trusted online provider via selection of mechanism browser may retrieve information from sensitive information memory and may provide information to trusted online provider via the secure connection. Trusted online provider may receive information and may complete the transaction. After the transaction is complete the website may display user interface depicted in via browser . As shown user interface may indicate that information was received from browser and that the goods provided in shopping cart will be mailed to the user as indicated by reference number .

Alternatively if the website depicted in is provided by untrusted online provider to browser browser may determine that the website is untrusted and may display another information exchange confirmation window to the user as shown in user interface of . Information exchange confirmation window may indicate that the website would like to access information stored by browser as indicated by reference number . As further shown by reference number information exchange confirmation window may provide a warning that if the user consents information may be transferred to untrusted online provider over an unsecure connection and that the website is not on a trusted stores list. Despite the warning the user may still elect to send information to untrusted online provider via a selection mechanism e.g. a button that states Yes send my information . Alternatively the user may heed the warning and may elect not to send information to untrusted online provider via another selection mechanism e.g. a button that states No please don t send .

As shown in process may include receiving information associated with a website and connection information from an online provider device block and providing the website information for display to a user block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with browser and online provider may establish website connection with each other so that online provider may display a website to user via browser . Information associated with website connection may be provided to browser and browser may receive the information. The information associated with website connection may include information identifying whether website connection is a secure connection a broken connection or an unsecure connection information identifying whether encryption associated with website connection is current or outdated information identifying whether a certificate associated with website connection is trusted or untrusted etc. Online provider may provide website information to browser . Browser may receive website information and may display website information to user via a display of client device . Website information may include information associated with the website provided by online provider to browser .

As further shown in process may include receiving from the user information and a request to submit the information to the online provider device block and determining whether the information contains sensitive information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with user may provide information to browser and browser may receive information . Information may include information requested by online provider via the website provided by online provider . For example information may include a name an address credit card information etc. associated with user that online provider requests in order to complete an online transaction e.g. a purchase of merchandise . User may request that information be provided to online provider . For example if user entered information into fields of the website provided by online provider user may request that the entered information be provided to online provider via a submit mechanism e.g. a button an icon a link etc. . Prior to providing information to online provider browser may determine whether information contains any sensitive information such as a credit card number a social security number a password a PIN a driver s license number etc.

Returning to if the information does not contain sensitive information block NOT SENSITIVE process may include providing the information to the online provider device in response to request block . If the information contains sensitive information block SENSITIVE process may include determining whether the website is safe or unsafe based on the website information and the connection information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with if browser determines that information does not contain sensitive information browser may provide information to online provider . However if browser determines that information includes sensitive information browser may determine whether the website provided by online provider is safe or unsafe based on the information associated with website connection website information and or website lists .

As further shown in if the website is safe block SAFE process may include providing the information to the online provider device in response to the request block . If the website is unsafe block UNSAFE process may include providing for display a warning that sensitive information is to be transmitted to an unsafe website block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with if browser determines that the website provided by online provider is safe browser may provide information including the sensitive information to online provider . However if browser determines that the website provided by online provider is unsafe browser may display to user warning that indicates that sensitive information is about to be transmitted to an unsafe website. User may heed warning and elect to not provide information to online provider or may ignore warning and elect to provide information to online provider . Alternatively or additionally browser may prevent information from being provided to online provider when information contains sensitive information and the website is unsafe.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include performing pattern recognition on the information to determine whether the information contains sensitive information block and or performing heuristic recognition on the information to determine whether the information contains sensitive information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with sensitive information determination component may utilize pattern recognition such as classification regression sequence labeling parsing etc. to determine whether information includes sensitive information. In one example if information includes numbers with a particular format such as a credit card number e.g. 1234 5678 9123 4567 or a social security number e.g. 123 45 6789 the pattern recognition may be able to identify with high confidence such information as sensitive information. Alternatively or additionally sensitive information determination component may utilize heuristic recognition such as contextual recognition to determine whether information includes sensitive information. For example if sensitive information determination component identifies a mailing address in information and identifies a number pattern after the mailing address sensitive information determination component may utilize this contextual information to determine that the number pattern may be a credit card number.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include determining the website to be unsafe when a secure connection is not established with the website block determining the website to be unsafe when a secure connection with the website is broken block and or determining the website to be unsafe when the website is identified in a blacklist block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with if the information associated with website connection indicates that website connection is not a secure connection e.g. a SSL connection environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If the information associated with website connection indicates that website connection is a secure connection but that the secure connection is broken environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If website lists indicate that the website is listed on a blacklist included in website lists environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe.

As further shown in process block may include determining the website to be unsafe when encryption associated with the website is outdated block determining the website to be unsafe when a certificate associated with the website is invalid expired or self signed block and or determining the website to be safe when the website is not identified as unsafe or when the website is identified in a whitelist block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with if website information indicates that encryption associated with the website is outdated environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. If website information indicates that a certificate associated with the website is not trusted e.g. invalid expired self signed etc. environment determination component may determine the website to be unsafe. Environment determination component may determine the website to be safe when the website is not determined to be unsafe. Alternatively or additionally if website lists indicate that the website is listed on a whitelist included in website lists environment determination component may determine the website to be safe.

As shown in process may include receiving information from a user block determining whether the information contains sensitive information block and storing the sensitive information when the sensitive information is present in the information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with user may provide information to browser and browser may receive information . Information may include information that may be automatically provided to trusted online provider when requested by trusted online provider . In one example information may include a name an address credit card information etc. associated with user that online provider may request in order to complete an online transaction. Browser may determine whether information contains any sensitive information such as a credit card number a social security number a password a PIN a driver s license number etc. Browser may store the sensitive information contained in information when browser determines that information includes sensitive information. Alternatively or additionally browser may store information regardless of whether browser determines that information includes sensitive information.

As further shown in process may include receiving information associated with a website and connection information from an online provider device block receiving a request for sensitive information from the online provider device block and determining whether the website is trusted based on the website information and the connection information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with browser and trusted online provider may establish a website connection with each other. Trusted online provider may provide website information to browser . Browser may receive website information and may display website information to user via a display of client device . Website information may include information associated with the website provided by trusted online provider to browser . Website information may also include website connection information such as information identifying whether the website connection is a secure connection a broken connection or an unsecure connection information identifying whether encryption associated with the website connection is current or outdated etc. In order to complete the order of the product or service trusted online provider may provide request to browser and browser may receive request . Request may include a request for information stored by browser such as a request for the sensitive information included in information . Prior to providing information to trusted online provider in response to request browser may determine whether the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted or untrusted based on website information and or website lists .

Returning to if the website is trusted block TRUSTED process may include securely providing the sensitive information to the online provider device in response to the request block . If the website is not trusted block UNTRUSTED process may include providing for display a warning that the website is untrusted and preventing transmission of the sensitive information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with browser may determine that the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted and may provide information including the sensitive information to trusted online provider in a secure manner such as via the trusted communication channel established with trusted online provider . Browser may determine that the website provided by untrusted online provider is untrusted and may display to user a warning that indicates that the website is untrusted. User may heed the warning and elect to not provide information to untrusted online provider or may ignore the warning and elect to provide information to untrusted online provider . Alternatively or additionally browser may prevent information from being provided to untrusted online provider when information contains sensitive information and the website is untrusted.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include performing pattern recognition on the information to determine whether the information contains sensitive information block and or performing heuristic recognition on the information to determine whether the information contains sensitive information block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with sensitive information determination component may include the features of sensitive information determination component . Sensitive information determination component may utilize pattern recognition such as classification regression sequence labeling parsing etc. to determine whether information includes sensitive information. In one example if information includes numbers with a particular format such as a credit card number e.g. 1234 5678 9123 4567 or a social security number e.g. 123 45 6789 the pattern recognition may be able to identify with high confidence such information as sensitive information. Alternatively or additionally sensitive information determination component may utilize heuristic recognition such as contextual recognition to determine whether information includes sensitive information. For example if sensitive information determination component identifies a mailing address in information and identifies a number pattern after the mailing address sensitive information determination component may utilize this contextual information to determine that the number pattern may be a credit card number.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include determining the website to be untrusted when a secure connection is not established with the website block determining the website to be untrusted when a secure connection with the website is broken block and or determining the website to be untrusted when the website is identified in a blacklist block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with if the website connection information indicates that the website connection is not a secure connection trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If the website connection information indicates that the website connection is a secure connection but that the secure connection is broken trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If website lists indicate that the website is listed on a blacklist included in website lists trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted.

As further shown in process block may include determining the website to be untrusted when encryption associated with the website is outdated block determining the website to be untrusted when a certificate associated with the website is invalid expired or self signed block and or determining the website to be trusted when the website is not identified as untrusted or when the website is identified in a whitelist block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with if website information indicates that encryption associated with the website is outdated trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. If website information indicates that a certificate associated with the website is not trusted e.g. invalid expired self signed etc. trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be untrusted. Trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be trusted when the website is not determined to be untrusted. Alternatively or additionally if website lists indicate that the website is listed on a whitelist included in website lists trusted untrusted website determination component may determine the website to be trusted.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include establishing a secure connection with the online provider device block and providing the sensitive information to the online provider device via the secure connection block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with request may include an API call that may be used to establish a secure e.g. encrypted communication channel between browser and trusted online provider . Browser may determine that the website provided by trusted online provider is trusted and may provide information including the sensitive information to trusted online provider in a secure manner such as via the trusted communication channel established with trusted online provider .

Systems and or methods described herein may enable a browser to warn an unsuspecting user when the user is attempting to submit sensitive information in an unsafe environment such as to an untrustworthy and or unsecure website. The browser may also prevent the user from submitting the sensitive information to the unsafe environment. The sensitive information may include personal information financial information and or other information. The sensitive information if made public to an untrustworthy website may compromise the user s financial accounts identity etc. To further protect the sensitive information the browser may be a trusted intermediary of the sensitive information and may only disclose the sensitive information to trustworthy and or secure websites.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

The term component as used herein is intended to be broadly construed to include hardware such as for example a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a chip a memory device e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. etc. or a combination of hardware and software such as for example a processor microprocessor ASIC etc. executing software contained in a memory device.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

