---

title: Methods, systems and computer program products for providing ad insertion via a multimedia applications gateway
abstract: Ad insertion includes providing a multimedia applications gateway that is connected to an access gateway for an end user device and receiving, at the multimedia applications gateway via the access gateway, multimedia program content. The multimedia applications gateway converts the program content from a program media source into a first communication having an open standards protocol recognized by the end user device. The ad insertion also includes receiving directly, at the multimedia applications gateway from an advertising media source, multimedia advertising content. The multimedia applications gateway converts the multimedia advertising content into a second communication having the open standards protocol. The second communication is stored in a local memory of the multimedia applications gateway. The ad insertion further includes retrieving the second communication from the local memory, inserting the second communication at a location within the first communication, and presenting the first and second communications on the end user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671425&OS=08671425&RS=08671425
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08671425
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121113
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 979 173 filed Oct. 11 2007 and U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 250 139 filed Oct. 13 2008 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the invention relate to providing electronic application programs services and content to local sites and managing a home network. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to providing local advertisements insertion through a multimedia applications gateway supporting a number of applications and services in a home network.

Electronic application programs are used within a home or business for many reasons to assist people in their lives by establishing particular services. As such the applications programs and the services they provide may be referred to collectively as application programs services. For example a personal computer may contain many application programs establishing services that allow an individual to interface with the computer to perform various tasks such as word processing electronic mail and scheduling. As more devices within a home or business are becoming electronic the variety of application programs services that work in conjunction with these devices is greatly expanding. Application programs services now extend beyond those typically found on a personal computer that are focused on interaction with the user. For example application programs services now exist to provide customized control of security systems heating and cooling systems household appliances and various other systems and devices.

An existing system for managing applications in a home network is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 945 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. This patent discloses an application services gateway for managing various aspects of applications services. While the existing application services gateway is well suited for its intended purposes additional features may be added to the existing device. The multimedia applications gateway extends the capabilities of the applications services gateway including the integration of LAN switch and communication gateway functionality into the multimedia applications gateway.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments a method is provided. The method includes providing a multimedia applications gateway that is connected to an access gateway for an end user domain of an end user device. The access gateway is communicatively coupled to the end user device. The method also includes receiving at the multimedia applications gateway via the access gateway multimedia program content. The multimedia applications gateway converts the multimedia program content from a program media source into a first communication having an open standards protocol recognized by the end user device. The first communication represents programming content. The method further includes receiving directly at the multimedia applications gateway from an advertising media source multimedia advertising content. The multimedia applications gateway converts the multimedia advertising content into a second communication having the open standards protocol recognized by the end user device. The second communication represents advertising content. The method also includes storing the second communication in a local memory of the multimedia applications gateway and retrieving the second communication from the local memory inserting the second communication at a location within the first communication and presenting the first and second communications on the end user device.

A system and computer program product is also provided. Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention are directed to a multimedia applications gateway MAG in a variety of installations. The MAG is installed as part of a digital home network and provides centralized control of the home network. The MAG may include an integrated access gateway function. Through the MAG the user may access proactive network management performance monitoring and reporting self help improved diagnostic capability remote management and other operations. The MAG provides a consistent entertainment content experience mass storage capabilities and provides access to Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA compliant set top boxes STBs and televisions TVs . DLNA is an organization that provides specifications for enabling compatibility among electronic devices regardless of their manufacturer. The MAG architecture provides an open systems standards based application execution platform that a service provider can remotely administer and manage.

The system of also includes a provider service domain . The provider service domain may be implemented by one or more high speed computer processing devices e.g. a mainframe computer . As shown in a variety of applications and components in the provider service domain may be implemented to support the MAG . An extension of a services platform e.g. Common Architecture for Real Time Services CARTS Service Logic Execution Environment SLEE into the home of the digital home domain provides the in home service application execution platform. The MAG may be remotely managed operated by a service provider of the provider service domain by using a modular design featuring common software architecture and modular hardware components. When a customer of the digital home domain orders applications e.g. services applications these applications are automatically downloaded to the MAG . In an exemplary embodiment the MAG employs open systems standards based technology to achieve economy of scale. The MAG services support a wide range of applications such as DLNA gateway functions e.g. whole home digital video recording DVR push video on demand VoD local ad insertion server for thin client STBs transcoding of digital rights management DRM and multi device support local ad insertion home monitoring automation and control e.g. video monitoring and local archiving of streaming video home monitoring and control lighting control and management and energy control and management to name a few customer owned multimedia content storage and distribution with remote access remote utility meter reading e.g. electricity natural gas and water IP private branch exchange PBX biomedical monitoring pre positioned multimedia content with local caching and personal computer PC backup to name a few.

Other components of the provider service domain may include an integrated user portal supporting applications such as operation support systems OSS and or business support systems BSS collectively OSS BSS as well as other applications desired by the provider service domain . The integrated user portal may include a user interface that is accessible to customers such as the customer of the digital home domain and may be used to download services applications and access remote monitoring services from the provider service domain as described further herein.

In an exemplary embodiment the system of also includes an access domain which may include a provider access network . The provider access network enables access or residential gateways e.g. access gateway of the digital home domain to communicate with the provider service domain .

As indicated above the MAG device may be installed behind the residential or access gateway iNID Intelligent Network Interface Device as shown in or may be collocated with the access gateway as shown in . The access gateway in turn provides connection via e.g. coaxial cable electrical and twisted pair wiring and wireless technologies to wide range of devices via the home networking infrastructure of the digital home domain . The iNID is an implementation of an access gateway wherein the access gateway is physically installed on the outside on the home in place of the NID Network Interface Device .

In an exemplary embodiment the DLNA enabled TVs A communicate intelligently with the MAG over an in home network e.g. via the home networking infrastructure of the digital home domain of and B decode digital streams locally and render an EPG IPG per the provider s desired look and feel. In another exemplary embodiment the DLNA enabled STBs B and other devices such as devices C D and E may communicate intelligently with the MAG over the in home network e.g. via the home networking infrastructure of digital home domain or end user domain decode digital streams locally and render an EPG IPG per the provider s desired look and feel.

As indicated above the MAG includes a variety of hardware elements. In one exemplary embodiment the MAG includes a gigabit Ethernet interface for connection to a residential gateway e.g. the access gateway a processor and memory a real time operating system shown in a virtual machine e.g. Java Virtual Machine JVM and services framework not shown a dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP client shown in Web server shown in one or more hard drives shown in PCI and PCMCIA card slots and respectively for plugging in optional interfaces e.g. AT T U verse Video plug in card or AT T HomeZone plug in card eSATA IEEE 1394 and or USB 2.0 ports for attaching optional peripherals such as network attached storage AC plugs for AC power remote management TR 069 563 shown in dual IPv4 IPv6 stack shown in and IMS SIP session initiation protocol Stack shown in . In an exemplary embodiment the processor executes an application for enabling the MAG to communicate with the provider service network and the end user devices which in conjunction with the virtual machine allow the MAG to facilitate the application services described herein.

The MAG may be installed out of sight in a customer s home in a basement utility room or closet adjacent to an AC power outlet and connected via Ethernet to the residential gateway or iNID . The MAG may be customer installable by connecting Ethernet cable to the residential gateway . The MAG may also support plug and play installation.

In the exemplary embodiments of the MAG is equipped with an IPTV e.g. AT T U verse Video plug in module e.g. PCI card of . The MAG operates as a DLNA gateway for DLNA enabled devices such as the devices A B E and A B and E. The MAG terminates the IPTV service one of services applications provided by the provider service domain in the home including DRM and distributes the service to DLNA compliant thin client STBs and DLNA compliant TVs e.g. devices equipped with an integrated thin client. The MAG supports stream management whole home DVR trick functions i.e. playback features . The MAG provides whole home DVR to STBs and other IP devices in the home and supports multiple DRMs. The MAG performs conversions between multiple encoding formats and resolutions and can replace IPTV formats e.g. AT T U verse Video DRM with link protection protocol for securely sending video streams to different devices within the home . The MAG may send encrypted content over the Internet to devices registered to the same customer.

In the embodiments of the MAG is equipped with a DBS receiver e.g. AT T Homezone plug in module PCI card and operates as a DLNA gateway to DLNA enabled devices such as the STBs B B TVs A A and PCs E E. The MAG terminates the DBS service in the home including DRM and distributes the service to DLNA compliant thin client devices such as DLNA compliant STBs and DLNA compliant TVs that are equipped with integrated thin clients. The MAG supports stream management whole home DVR and trick functions i.e. playback features . The MAG provides whole home DVR to STBs and other IP devices in the home supports multiple DRMs and is capable of conversions between multiple encoding formats and resolutions. The MAG replaces existing DBS DRM with a link protection protocol for securely sending video streams to different devices within the home . The MAG sends encrypted content over the Internet to devices registered to the same customer e.g. devices within the home .

As shown in a MAG is used to replace the gateway shown in in the remote monitor service. In the embodiment shown in the MAG is installed behind an access gateway which may be an iNID residential gateway. In the embodiment shown in the MAG is collocated with the residential gateway . The remote monitor service system supports a wide range of applications with network attached storage including archiving streaming video. The home networking infrastructure includes a broadband multimedia network which is OFDM based i.e. orthogonal frequency division multiplexing based such as HomePlug AV G.hn or other type of network that is designed for transmitting high definition television HDTV and Voice over IP VoIP communications around the home . The network infrastructure may also include narrowband management and control using e.g. ZigBee technology.

Turning now to a flow diagram describing a process for implementing the multimedia access gateway services will now be described in an exemplary embodiment. At step a multimedia access gateway e.g. MAG is connected to an access gateway e.g. for the end user domain of the application services e.g. the embodiment shown in or a multimedia applications gateway that includes an integrated access gateway function e.g. the embodiment shown in . The access gateway is communicatively coupled to end user devices e.g. devices at the end user domain.

At step the multimedia applications gateway is configured to convert network communications of a selected application service that is downloaded to the access gateway and transmitted from the access gateway to at least one of the end user devices into communications having an open standards protocol e.g. DLNA recognized by each of the end user devices.

At step the selected application service is executed via a virtual machine e.g. Java operating on an operating system e.g. OS of the multimedia applications gateway. At step activities occurring in response to execution of the selected application service are monitored by the MAG application.

Turning now to a flow diagram describing a process for implementing local ad insertion will now be described in exemplary embodiments. At step a multimedia applications gateway e.g. MAG is connected to an access gateway e.g. for an end user domain of the end user device as shown e.g. in or a multimedia applications gateway that includes an integrated access gateway function as shown e.g. in . The access gateway is communicatively coupled to end user devices e.g. devices at the end user domain.

At step the multimedia applications gateway is configured to convert multimedia program content from a program media source received at the access gateway and transmitted from the access gateway to at least one of the end user devices into a first communication having an open standards protocol recognized by each of the end user devices. The first communication represents programming content.

At step the multimedia applications gateway is configured to convert multimedia advertising content transmitted by an advertising media source and received at the multimedia applications gateway into a second communication having an open standards protocol recognized by each of the end user devices. The second communication represents advertising content.

At step the second communication is stored in a local memory of the multimedia applications gateway. At step the second communication is retrieved from the local memory inserted at a location within the first communication and at step the first and second communications are presented on at least one of the end user devices.

The detailed description explains various exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings. As described above the exemplary embodiments can be in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a processor the processor becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into an executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include a number a various embodiments. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

