---

title: Method and system for motion compensated target detection using acoustical focusing
abstract: An improved method and system for removing time-varying Doppler shifts and the effects of turbulence from data comprising at least one processor operating to estimate the average instantaneous frequency; reduce or remove noise from the state space variables estimates describing the frequency of the target; compensate for the motion of the target to obtain motion compensated data and increase the coherency of the data, and reduce or remove the noise from the state space variables describing the frequency of the target using a filter or smoother. Alternately, the method and system may comprise at least one processor operating to estimate the average instantaneous frequency of the first harmonic of a moving target; the average instantaneous frequency being inputted into an error reduction subroutine; using state space estimates of the frequency, calculating a time warping to remove the effect of the Doppler shift; and focusing the data using a modified PGA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223021&OS=09223021&RS=09223021
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09223021
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121022
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

There exists an interest in classifying tracking and canceling the signals from military assets using passive acoustic sensors. Goals for battlefield acoustics include localization tracking identification motion compensation Autofocus. preprocessor focus spectrum classification algorithms nulling algorithms and small improvement localization algorithms . As to autofocus phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm is the subject of P. H Eichel. and C. V. Jakowatz Phase gradient algorithm as an optimal estimator of the phase derivative Optics Letters Vol. 14 No. 20 1101 1103 1989 and P. H Eichel D. C. Ghiglia and C. V. Jakowatz Jr. Speckle processing method for synthetic aperture radar phase correction Optics Letters Vol. 14 1101 1103 1989 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

During the classifying tracking and or canceling of signals from military assets using passive acoustic sensors many targets have acoustic signatures with large peaks in their spectrum that can be exploited by signal processing algorithms. However target motion and turbulence in the atmosphere can distort the transmitted signal and degrade the performance of these signal processing algorithms. Preprocessing the data using motion compensation and autofocus algorithms can focus the signature of the target and thereby provide longer coherent processing interval durations and improved performance of previously developed algorithms.

The present invention is directed to an algorithm that inter alia focuses the frequency spectrum of moving targets such as for example a maneuvering rotorcraft. In a preferred embodiment the acoustic spectrum data is motion compensated by tracking the time varying Doppler shift generated by the main rotor blade then a modified PGA algorithm is applied to the data.

A preferred methodology for improving the sensing of data associated with a target on a processor comprising estimating the average instantaneous frequency reducing or removing noise from the average instantaneous frequency compensating for the motion of the target to obtain motion compensated data and focusing the motion compensated data performing a discrete fourier transform on the focused motion compensated data. Optionally the reducing or removing noise from the average instantaneous frequency comprises using one of a filter or smoother. Optionally the focusing of the motion compensated data comprises utilizes a phase gradient autofocus algorithm applied to the acoustic signature of a maneuvering rotorcraft. Optionally the focusing of the motion compensated data utilizes a modified phase gradient autofocus algorithm Optionally the step of estimating the average instantaneous frequency comprises a performing a fast fourier transform on the data b applying a window function c converting back to the time domain d applying a cross correlation function e finding a location of a peak and f calculating the fundamental frequency. Optionally the step of estimating the average instantaneous frequency comprises finding a peak location of a weighted autocorrelation the weighting being based upon a Wiener filter. Optionally the removing of noise from the average instantaneous frequency data comprises a initializing state space variables values and covariance in a matrix b obtaining frequency estimates c calculating innovation d updating state space variables and covariance in the matrix e repeating steps b through d until the estimation of state variables is completed.

A preferred embodiment methodology comprises estimating the average instantaneous frequency of the first harmonic of a moving target using at least one processor inputting the average instantaneous frequency into an error reduction subroutine using state space estimates of the frequency calculating a time warping that will remove the effect of the time varying Doppler shift from the data focusing the data using a modified phase gradient autofocus algorithm. Optionally the error reduction subroutine comprises a fixed lag smoother. Optionally the system further comprises performing a discrete fourier transform on the focused data. Optionally the reducing or removing of noise from the average instantaneous frequency comprises using one of a filter or smoother. Optionally the focusing of the motion compensated data comprises utilizing a phase gradient autofocus algorithm applied to the acoustic signature of a maneuvering rotorcraft. Optionally the focusing of the motion compensated data comprises using a modified phase gradient autofocus algorithm. Optionally the estimating of the average instantaneous frequency comprises performing a fast fourier transform on the data applying a window function applying a cross correlation function finding a location of a peak and calculating the fundamental frequency.

A preferred embodiment system for improving the sensing of data associated with a target comprising at least one processor the at least one processor operating to perform the steps of estimating the average instantaneous frequency reducing or removing noise from the average instantaneous frequency compensating for the motion of the target to obtain motion compensated data focusing the motion compensated data and performing a discrete Fourier transform on the focused motion compensated data.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

The target signature or signal may be modeled by d t h t n t where d t is the measured acoustic signal of the target as a function of time h t is the signal emitted by the target t is a function that distorts the signal due to target motion and n t is noise. For rotorcraft real where h t is the acoustic signal emitted from the rotorcraft at time t Al and l are the amplitude and phase for the 1harmonic L is the number of harmonics j is the square root of 1 v is the fundamental frequency and f t is an unknown function.

During the classifying tracking and or canceling of signals from military assets using passive acoustic sensors many targets have acoustic signatures with large peaks in their spectrum that can be exploited by signal processing algorithms. However target motion and turbulence in the atmosphere can distort the transmitted signal and degrade the performance of these algorithms. Preprocessing the data using motion compensation and autofocus algorithms can focus the signature of the target and thereby provide longer coherent processing interval durations and improved performance of previously developed algorithms.

Coherent focusing algorithms are widely used in the field of radar signal processing. For example when a synthetic aperture radar SAR image is generated the motion of the platform is typically accounted for by multiplying the received data by the complex conjugate of the phase of the signal returned by an isotropic point scatterer located in the center of the image scene. This requires knowledge of the velocity of the aircraft platform for the SAR radar and the transmitted waveform. For passive acoustic sensors the velocity of the target and the waveform of the signal are typically unknown. However for many targets of interest information about the structure of the waveform is known. For example the rotation rate of the blades on a rotorcraft or the propellers on an airplane is typically fixed and it generates acoustic waveforms with multiple spectral peaks with stable frequencies. For these targets time varying Doppler shifts can be estimated and used to calculate a time warping that will remove these effects from the data.

A preferred embodiment algorithm of the present invention may be utilized to focus the acoustic spectrum of a maneuvering rotorcraft. First the data may be motion compensated based upon the estimates of the fundamental frequency of the signal generated by the main rotor blade. State space estimates of the frequency may be to calculate a time warping that removes the effect of the time varying Doppler shift from the data. Then the motion compensated data may be further focused using a modified phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm.

To this end a preferred embodiment algorithm was evaluated by analyzing the increase in the amplitude of the harmonics in the spectrum of a rotorcraft. The results depended upon the frequency of the harmonics processing interval duration target dynamics and atmospheric conditions. Under good conditions the results for the fundamental frequency of the target 11 Hz almost achieved the predicted upper bound. The results for higher frequency harmonics had larger increases in the amplitude of the peaks but smaller improvements than the predicted upper bounds. The preferred embodiment algorithm can be used to preprocess data for classification tracking and nulling algorithms.

Once the SAR image is generated it is typically further processed using an autofocus algorithm. Most autofocus algorithms assume there are isotropic scattering centers in the scene that are blurred by errors not corrected for in the motion compensation algorithm. A standard technique to focus SAR images is the phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm. For an acoustic signal generated by a rotorcraft there are multiple harmonics that are distorted by the motion of the target and atmospheric effects. The same techniques used in radar to focus a point scatterer in a scene can be applied to atmospheric acoustics to focus the spectrum of target with some modifications.

Focusing algorithms have been developed for many acoustic applications. For example techniques have been developed that reduce the error in time of arrival estimates for moving targets by accounting for the effect of the Doppler shift in the signal processing. As used herein the terminology Doppler shift is the change in frequency of a wave occurring when the observer is moving relative to the source of the origin of the wave or when the source is moving relative to the observer. Moreover Doppler Shift includes Bistatic Doppler shift which occurs when the receiver and transmitter of a radar or sonar system are separated. According to Wikipedia the Doppler shift is due to the component of motion of the object in the direction of the transmitter plus the component of motion of the object in the direction of the receiver. Equivalently it can be considered as proportional to the rate of change of bistatic range.

In a bistatic radar with wavelength where the distance between transmitter and target is Rtx and distance between receiver and target is Rrx the received bistatic Doppler frequency shift is calculated as 

Algorithms have also been developed that take advantage of the Doppler shift to track the speed and height of fixed wing aircraft. Another area where removing the effect of Doppler shifts is important is in underwater communication. For example B. S. Sharif A Computationally Efficient Doppler Compensation. System for Underwater Acoustic Communications IEEE J. Oceanic Eng. 25 1 2000 uses a bank of matched filters to estimate and reduce the effect of Doppler shifts on communication waveforms caused by changing environmental conditions. The present invention is directed to developing an algorithm to preprocess data for several applications. It should improve the performance of classification algorithms by focusing the signature of the target and improving the results of nulling algorithms by allowing narrowband techniques to be applied to peaks in the spectrum of the target.

A major issue associated with most motion compensation algorithms is the tradeoff between accuracy and computational efficiency. The maximum likelihood estimate MLE which is an asymptotically efficient estimator can usually be computed to compensate for the effect of target motion. However it is usually computationally expensive to implement. Most of the papers in the literature have focused on developing suboptimal techniques that are computationally efficient which is also a goal of the present invention.

The algorithm developed in accordance with the principles of the present invention processes data in three stages. First the average instantaneous frequency of the first harmonic of a rotorcraft is estimated and input to a fixed lag smoother. Then the state space estimates of the frequency are used to calculate a time warping that will remove the effect of the Doppler shift from the data. Lastly the data is further focused using a modified phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm.

The algorithm developed in accordance with the principles of the present invention was tested using acoustic data from a rotorcraft measured with a single microphone. It was evaluated using metrics based upon the increase in the peak levels of the harmonics in the spectrum. Both the percentage of peaks that increased in amplitude after motion compensation and the amount of their improvement were analyzed. These results were compared to theoretical predictions based on coherent processing gain and estimates of the instantaneous frequency of the target.

For ease of reading the general organization of this disclosure may be summarized as introducing the problem describing a target model for the acoustic signature of the target describing the resampling algorithm describing the phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm and the data collection. Then the fixed lag smoothing algorithm that is used to estimate the frequency of the target is next explained and the data processing is described and the results are analyzed and then summarized.

An example of a phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm is further described in P. H Eichel. and C. V. Jakowatz Phase gradient algorithm as an optimal estimator of the phase derivative Optics Letters Vol. 14 No. 20 1101 1103 1989 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A simple model that describes the acoustic signal measured on the ground with a microphone for a moving target is 1 where d t is the measured acoustic signal of the target as a function of time h t is the signal emitted by the target t is a function that distorts the signal due to target motion and n t is noise. For a target such as a rotorcraft the model can be expanded into the signal generated by a dominant harmonic source such as the main rotor blades and everything else. The signal from the main rotor blades can be modeled as a harmonic signal with a constant fundamental frequency with amplitude weights on each harmonic. The signal model for the target can be described by for 0

The model assumes that the signal propagates under ideal atmospheric conditions and spherical propagation losses are incorporated into the coefficients.

The effect of target motion on the measured signal can be modeled using d t h t t where t is the propagation delay from the target to the measurement location at a given time. Its effect can be approximated by performing a Taylor series expansion on t with respect to time. The coefficients of the parameters in the expansion are not known without knowledge of the target dynamics but they can be described using a polynomial equation. The propagation delay can be described using for 0

Conceptually the effect of the Doppler shift can be removed by resampling the data using 5 where m t t and 1 denotes the inverse. Rather than calculating the inverse of t an alternative procedure is to warp the time scale of the data so that the function that distorts the signal is removed when the data are resampled to a time scale with uniform increments.

According to Wikipedia Dynamic time warping DTW is an algorithm for measuring similarity between two sequences which may vary in time or speed.

If the signal is significantly oversampled in time relative to the Nyquist rate then signal can be resampled using interpolation algorithms with minimal errors in reconstructing the original signal. For a further discussion see B. S. Sharif A Computationally Efficient Doppler Compensation. System for Underwater Acoustic Communications IEEE J. Oceanic Eng. 25 1 2000 hereby incorporated by reference . This procedure can be applied to any higher order polynomial function describing the distortion. The time scale associated with the discretely sampled data that are modeled using the second order polynomial shown in 4 can be warped using

To motion compensate the data over longer time periods several consecutive estimates of the time warping function shown in 6 can be combined. The index associated with each warping function is determined by finding the smallest integer i t T that is not less than t T where T is the processing interval time. For post processing algorithms that require a coherent signal the time warping functions need to be generated relative to a common reference frequency and have a consistent time offset between consecutive processing intervals. The reference frequency for data starting at the iprocessing interval is denoted by . The time offset between processing intervals can be represented as a phase offset multiplied by the reference frequency. The starting phase offset at the i 1 processing interval can be determined by evaluating 3 at T N t. The resulting phase offset for the i 1 processing interval where is the accumulated phase is . 7 where Band Care constants associated with the iprocessing interval. Now the algorithm can process data collected over a longer time period by concatenating together the results from several shorter processing interval times. The time scale of the data can be warped using

The phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm was modified to further focus the spectrum of the target. The PGA algorithm assumes that the processed signal from a single scattering center in a range bin in a stripmap SAR image can be described by for 0

For improved performance the procedure can be applied iteratively to the image. The model for the acoustic signal generated by the main rotor blades after motion compensation is 13 where is caused by an unknown Doppler shift and interpolation effects The error term is warped by the motion compensation algorithm but its effect on the autofocus algorithm is not important since its modifying an unknown error. This signal is demodulated to baseband for each harmonic then transformed into the Fourier domain and the phase error is isolated using a window function. 14 

The window function selected for different harmonics is a rectangular window for frequencies between Fwhere 1 log 15 and Fis the frequency span for the fundamental frequency. Ideally the window function would increase linearly with frequency for harmonics with equal signal to clutter ratios however this can result in more than one harmonic being contained in a single window. To prevent this a logarithmic window was selected.

If the phase errors obtained in Equation 15 are divided by the harmonic number then the standard phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm can applied to the acoustic data as shown below 

The algorithm was tested using acoustic data that were collected as a rotorcraft flew around a microphone that was 1 m above the ground in the grid and in circular patterns as shown in which is an illustration of a 2 D flight path of a rotocraft. The approximate height of the rotorcraft during the grid pattern part of the flight was 800 m and the height during the circular pattern started at approximately 900 m and ended at 250 m after approximately five loops. The data were collected in the afternoon and the outside temperature was approximately 33 C. The position of the rotorcraft was recorded and time stamped using a global positioning system GPS inertial navigation system INS receiver at a rate of 1 Hz. The acoustic data were sampled at rate of 1.0016 KHz with a 24 bit ADC. The fundamental frequency associated with the main rotor blades was approximately 11 Hz.

Tracking the harmonics of a rotorcraft can be a challenging problem. At low frequencies noise from the wind can be large and at high frequencies attenuation from the atmosphere can be large. See in this regard F Skode Windscreening of Outdoor Microphones Bruel and Kjaer Tech. Rev. 1 1966 . Also there are multiple harmonic and non harmonic signals present in the signature of rotorcrafts which are related to the fundamental frequency generated by the main rotor blades. These factors affect the tracking algorithm results.

The fundamental frequency of the rotorcraft can be estimated using techniques based upon autocorrelation. For targets that have a harmonic structure and a constant Doppler shift the location of the peak in the autocorrelation result is inversely proportional to the fundamental frequency of the target. For further discussion see D. Gerhard Pitch Extraction and Fundamental Frequency History and Current Techniques in Technical report TR CS 2003 06 Dept. of Computer Science University of Regina 2003 hereby incorporated by reference. Variations in the frequency as a function of time will cause the location of the peak in the autocorrelation result to translate and smear. Its location can be determined by performing a Fourier transform on for 0

The frequency of the target was tracked using a third order fixed lag smoother with a lag of one sample and a white noise jerk model. A further information in this regard may be found in A B. D. O Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering Prentice Hall Englewood Cliffs N.J. 1979 Chap 7 and R. Li and V. P. Jilkov Survey of maneuvering target tracking. Part I Dynamic Models IEEE Trans on AES 39 1333 1364 2003 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The continuous time model characterizing the fundamental frequency is given by

Measurements of the average instantaneous frequency of the target are described by noise 20 where H 1 T 2 T 6 T is the processing interval time and the noise is assumed to be independent and Gaussian distributed.

The average instantaneous frequency of the target is estimated using a weighted autocorrelation of the data. First a fast Fourier transform FFT is performed on data collected over a processing interval time of approximately 2.05 s. Then the spectrum is truncated between 9 and 120 Hz and a weighting based upon a non causal Wiener filter is applied. For a discrete signal the weights can be approximated using

An outlier rejection capability was added to the frequency tracking algorithm. If the measured frequency was larger than four standard deviations away from the value predicted by the target model then the location of the largest peak in the spectrum was used to estimate the frequency. This measurement was divided by all possible harmonic numbers and then the value that was consistent with the predicted frequency was selected. If no values were consistent then the state variables were updated based upon model predictions without any input from the measurement data. If the frequency of the largest peak were stable then it could be used directly as input to the tracking algorithm.

An analysis of the motion compensation algorithm was performed by comparing the peak levels in the measured and simulated spectrums of the rotorcraft processed with and without motion compensated data for several processing interval durations. The algorithm was implemented using estimates from the frequency tracking algorithm to warp the time scale using 8 then the data were resampled using spline based interpolation. Linear interpolation was also tested but the performance was lower and results were not reported. Since the sample rate of 1002 Hz is much larger than the average value of the highest frequency of interest 77 Hz 7 11 interpolation should have a minimal impact on signal reconstruction errors. Again in this regard see. S. Sharif A Computationally Efficient Doppler Compensation. System for Underwater Acoustic Communications IEEE J. Oceanic Eng. 25 1 2000 . Next the spectra of the data were computed and the peaks of the harmonics were estimated. First the average instantaneous fundamental frequency for both the motion compensated and uncompensated data were initially estimated using the same frequency tracking algorithm described in section 5. These two estimates needed to be consistent to within 0.5 to be included in the analysis. Greater than 99 of the results were consistent. At higher frequencies the spacing between harmonics slightly deviated from a constant. To compensate for this effect the peak values of the harmonics were determined by searching within 1 of the values centered on estimates calculated using the average instantaneous fundamental frequency. To reduce the effect of scalloping errors the spectrums were computed using an FFT with data arrays that were padded by a factor of six.

The first step in the processing is to estimate the state variables associated with the fundamental frequency of the main rotor blades. They were calculated using the frequency tracking algorithm described in section 5.0 using approximately 913 s of data. These results were compared to estimates calculated using the GPS position and velocity data collected on the rotorcraft. For a target with constant velocity the Doppler frequency shift is

A portion of the frequency tracking results are shown in where the text meas in the legend corresponds to the line associated with the measured frequency input to the smoother smooth corresponds to the frequency estimated from the fixed lag smoother then processed using the model described equation 19 and GPS corresponds to the Doppler frequency estimated using equation 22 . The GPS results have been compensated for acoustic propagation delay. In the fundamental frequency of the helicopter was estimated filtered then smoothed at 2 second intervals. The results are shown where x denotes the measured fundamental frequency and smooth denotes the fundamental frequency estimated using an RTS smoother.

The smoothed estimates of the average instantaneous frequency shown in usually tracked the Doppler frequency estimates obtained using the GPS data however there are some visual discrepancies. The discontinuities suggest that the GPS estimated frequency is often less accurate than the frequency estimated using the acoustic data. This is probably caused by the GPS receiver losing and reestablishing satellite lock during the flight. The acoustic frequency measurements also had visual outliers near the peaks and troughs of the graph in but with smaller deviations than the GPS estimates.

A simple statistical analysis was performed on the smoothed frequency tracking results. The minimum average and maximum of the estimated average instantaneous frequency are 9.6 10.9 and 12.5 Hz respectively and the root mean square value of its derivative is 0.039 s.

The focusing algorithm was tested on the data collected for a rotorcraft flying the path shown in . The algorithm was run on six processing interval durations ranging from 2.05 12.3 s in 2.05 s increments. The data corresponding to each processing interval duration were selected by moving the time intervals forward 2.05 s or equivalently 2048 point increments. For data processed using a 2.05 s processing interval duration a total of 448 spectrums were computed and there is no data overlap. For data processed using k times larger processing interval durations k fewer spectrums were computed and there is data overlap.

The phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm was implemented using two sets of parameters. First it was run using data from harmonics 3 4 6 and 7 with a frequency span for the PGA window F of 10 percent of the estimated fundamental frequency. The 1st harmonic was not used since wind noise and other engine noise were larger and the 5th harmonic was not used since it was difficult to isolate from the harmonic from the tail rotor.

The phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm was also implemented using data from only the 3harmonic with a window size based upon 20 percent of the estimated fundamental frequency. The 3harmonic was selected because it had a good SNR and it was near the middle of the frequencies being evaluated. The results for the other harmonics should not be biased by noise and interference near the 3harmonic being potentially transformed into signal.

Several methods were used to evaluate the algorithms. First an example of the results for a single spectrum is analyzed. shows spectra of the rotorcraft calculated without motion compensation with motion compensation and with motion compensation and autofocus using 5 harmonic for approximately 8.2 s of data. They are denoted in the legend as raw mc and pga respectively. The data were motion compensated using the frequency tracking results for four consecutive processing interval times of 2.05 s. The spectrum calculated using the motion compensated data is more focused and has higher peaks than the uncompensated spectrum and the spectrum calculated with the PGA compensated data is more focused than the spectrums calculated using the motion compensated data. Several harmonics from the main rotor blade are labeled by their number in . Data near the 5harmonic and a harmonic from tail rotor blade are displayed in greater detail in . The peaks at frequencies of approximately 53 and 54 Hz are resolvable in the motion compensated and PGA focused spectrums but are blurred in the raw data.

A quantitative analysis of the motion compensation algorithm was performed using measured data and compared to upper bounds generated using simulated data and predictions based upon coherent processing gain. First the spectra of the measured data were processed without motion compensation with motion compensated data and with PGA compensated data and their amplitudes were compared for each processing interval duration and harmonic number. show the percent of the peaks in the spectra calculated using measured data processed with the motion compensation algorithm and phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm that were higher in amplitude than the peaks in the spectra processed using data processed without motion compensation for different processing interval durations and harmonic numbers. In the phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm is based upon harmonics 2 3 4 5 and 7 the Fin 14 is 10 percent of the estimated fundamental frequency. To improve the readability of the plots only the results for harmonic numbers 1 3 5 and 7 are shown. The results for the other harmonics were similar.

As expected the results improved as the processing interval duration was increased. For a 2.05 s processing interval duration the percent improvement for the motion compensated data was only slightly greater than 50 . As the processing interval duration was increased from 2.05 to 12.3 s the percent improvement increased. For the fundamental frequency the results increased from 55 to 93 . For processing intervals greater than or equal to 4.1 s the results for both phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithms always improved results. As expected the results for the PGA algorithm based only on the 3harmonic were best for the third harmonic. The results for the other harmonics in also improved which is validation that the model to describe the signal is reasonable. Overall the difference between the percent improvement of the two realizations of the PGA algorithms is small.

These results indicate that for shorter duration processing intervals the algorithm did not significantly affect the peaks in the spectra of the rotorcraft. Unfortunately even for some higher frequencies and longer processing interval durations the algorithm did not always increase the peak levels in the spectrum.

There are several target and environment factors not included in the signal model that could reduce the performance of the algorithm. Target maneuvers could slightly slow down the blade rotation rate and change the fundamental frequency of the rotorcraft. Also turbulence in the atmosphere caused by nature and downwash from the rotorcraft will affect the frequency amplitude and coherency of the signal. See in this regard S. L. Collier and a D. K. Wilson Performance bounds for passive sensor arrays operating in a turbulent medium Plane wave analysis J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 113 2704 2718 2003 hereby incorporated by reference. These effects are difficult to isolate and quantify but it is expected that they will have an impact on the results. If these effects are large during a processing interval the results from the algorithm are questionable and should be discarded. One method to determine whether to use the results from the algorithm is to calculate the spectra for data that are motion compensated and for data that are not and then select the method that has the highest peaks.

For the remaining analysis any spectra calculated using motion compensation data that did not increase the peak levels in the 3harmonic were not included. The 3harmonic was selected because it had the highest average signal to noise ratio and the peak levels are reasonably sensitivity to target motion. In reality the difference between good and bad data is not a binary decision so the performance of the algorithm would still be affected by environmental and target factors even when the algorithm is evaluated using only good data.

The amount the algorithm increased the peak levels for the good data was analyzed and compared to predicted results. To more equally weight the results calculated at different times an analysis was performed in dB. The ratio of the peak levels of the harmonics processed with motion compensated data to the peak levels of the harmonics processed using data that were not motion compensation was averaged in dB for each processing interval duration and harmonic number using

Simulated data were generated using the output of the frequency tracking algorithm and the models described in 1 3 and 8 

The results for motion compensated data phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm compensated data processed using only the 3harmonic and their UB are shown in for four harmonics. The results for the phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm calculated using six harmonics was only marginally better and are not shown.

As expected the results indicate that for short processing interval durations and low harmonic numbers motion compensation and phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm had a minimal impact on the peaks levels in the spectrums. As the harmonic number and processing interval duration increased the average improvement became larger but the loss in performance relative to the predicted UB also increased. The results for the first harmonic almost achieved the predicted UB. For lower processing interval durations the results for motion compensated and PGA compensated spectrum for the 3harmonic occasionally surpassed the predicted UB and do not represent a valid measure of performance. This result for the motion compensated data is probably caused by the noise randomly changing the peak levels in the spectrum. When the noise resulted in a favorable outcome the data associated with the 3harmonic were included in the analysis and discarded when it did not. This resulted in a small positive bias. The result for the phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm compensated data for the 3harmonic is probably higher than the UB due to small levels of noise and interference being adjusted so that they coherently added to the signal. As expected these biases are not present in the results for the other harmonics.

The results from indicate that the increase in the peak levels due to motion compensation and the PGA based compensation almost achieved the predicted UB for the fundamental frequency and the predicted coherent processing gain. The difference between the measured average improvement for the motion compensated data and the UB for the processing interval duration of 12.2 s shown in is 0.55 dB and slightly better for the PGA compensated data. Motion compensation and PGA based compensation increased the peak levels in the spectrum more for the higher harmonics but the differences between these results and the predicted results also increased. The discrepancies are probably due to both target and environmental effects which defocus the spectrum. Small fluctuations in the rotation rate of the main blades will cause errors in the fundamental frequency estimate which will reduce performance particularly for higher frequency harmonics. Also turbulence in the atmosphere will reduce the coherence of higher frequency signals more than lower frequency signals. For more of a description of turbulent effects see S. L. Collier and D. K. Wilson Performance bounds for passive sensor arrays operating in a turbulent medium Plane wave analysis J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 113 2704 2718 2003 .

The discrepancies between the measured and the predicted results were difficult to associate with particular phenomena but are probably due to fluctuations in the fundamental frequency and amplitude of the signal emitted by the target errors in the fundamental frequency tracking algorithm multipath effects and temporal and spatially varying turbulence. For many scenarios preprocessing the data using a motion compensating algorithm will focus the signature of the target and allow for longer coherent processing times. This may improve the performance of classification tracking and cancellation algorithms

The first step box in the signal processing algorithm is to track the fundamental frequency of the helicopter which is initially estimated by autocorrelating the spectrum of the helicopter. The location of the peak corresponds to the estimated fundamental frequency. These estimates are input to a third order Kalman filter. To further improve the estimates of the fundamental frequency the output from the Kalman filter may be processed using a Rauch Tung Striebel RTS smoother.

In summary the spectrum of a rotorcraft was focused using the estimated Doppler shift and an autofocus algorithm. Under good conditions full coherent processing gain was almost achieved for the fundamental frequency. Peak levels in the higher frequency harmonics improved more than the fundamental frequency but less than the predicted upper bounds. The discrepancies between the measured and predicted upper bounds are difficult to associate with a particular Phenomenology but may be due to a fluctuations in the fundamental frequency of the target b fluctuations in the amplitude of the harmonics c atmospheric dispersion d multipath effects terrain and target. The algorithm can be used as a preprocessor to improve the performance of classification and nulling algorithms.

The above lends open the possibility of the fusion of multiple sensors such as coherent fusion of multiple sensors as for example acoustics and radar.

Evaluation criteria included the following. The ratio of the peak levels of the harmonics processed with motion compensated data and PGA compensated data to the peak levels of the harmonics processed using data that were not motion compensation.

As used herein the terminology target means a person or persons or portion thereof animal or animals thing object or a combination thereof.

As used herein the terminology point of interest or points of interest refer to an signature or area in the image which appears to be a target but may or may not be a target i.e. potentially the point of interest may be a target subject to further processing or testing.

As used herein the terminology processor includes computer controller CPU microprocessor multiprocessor minicomputer main frame personal computer PC coprocessor and combinations thereof or any machine similar to a computer or processor which is capable of processing algorithms.

As used herein the terminology the terminology process means an algorithm software subroutine computer program or methodology.

As used herein the terminology target signature means the characteristic pattern of a target displayed by detection and identification equipment.

As used herein the terminology algorithm or subroutine means sequence of steps using computer software process software computer program or methodology.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

