---

title: Differential microphone with sealed backside cavities and diaphragms coupled to a rocking structure thereby providing resistance to deflection under atmospheric pressure and providing a directional response to sound pressure
abstract: A vacuum sealed directional microphone and methods for fabricating said vacuum sealed directional microphone. A vacuum sealed directional microphone includes a rocking structure coupled to two vacuum sealed diaphragms which are responsible for collecting incoming sound and deforming under sound pressure. The rocking structure's resistance to bending aids in reducing the deflection of each diaphragm under large atmospheric pressure. Furthermore, the rocking structure exhibits little resistance about its pivot thereby enabling it to freely rotate in response to small pressure gradients characteristic of sound. The backside cavities of such a device can be fabricated without the use of the deep reactive ion etch step thereby allowing such a microphone to be fabricated with a CMOS compatible process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08989411&OS=08989411&RS=08989411
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 08989411
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120406
---
Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 473 217 Differential Microphone with Sealed Backside Cavities and Diaphragms Coupled to a Rocking Structure Thereby Providing Resistance to Deflection Under Atmospheric Pressure and Providing a Directional Response to Sound Pressure filed Apr. 8 2011 and claims the benefit of its earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with government support under DC009721 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to miniature microphones and more particularly to a micromachined differential microphone with sealed backside cavities where the diaphragms are coupled to a rocking structure thereby providing resistance to deflection under external atmospheric pressure and providing a directional response to small dynamic sound pressure.

Miniature microphones which may be used in various applications e.g. cellular phones laptop computers portable consumer electronics hearing aids typically include a membrane and a rigid back electrode in close proximity to form a capacitor with a gap. Incoming sound induces vibrations in the compliant membrane and these vibrations change the capacitance of the structure which can be sensed with electronics. Typically the structure of the microphone contains a large backside cavity and a small pressure release hole. The pressure release hole allows the large atmospheric pressure to reach the backside of the membrane. While the membrane compliance is designed to resolve dynamic pressure vibrations with magnitudes of 1 Pa to 1 Pa atmospheric pressure is approximately 100 kPa about a factor of 10times larger . Without a pressure release it is challenging to design compliant membranes that do not collapse under atmospheric pressure.

Recently microelectromechanical systems MEMS processing has been utilized to fabricate miniature microphones. However most miniature microphones using MEMS processing use a deep reactive ion etch step through the entire silicon substrate thereby preventing CMOS compatibility. If however miniature microphones could use MEMS processing without the use of the deep reactive ion etch step then miniature microphones could be manufactured with CMOS compatible processes which have a significant cost advantage over other processes.

Furthermore there is a desire to create a vacuum sealed microphone. By removing air from the gap a microphone with much lower self noise which results in higher fidelity can be fabricated with a potentially better frequency response. However a very stiff diaphragm would be required to prevent the structure from collapsing under external atmospheric pressure and such a structure would have poor sensitivity to small sound pressure due to its stiffness. Such structures have been manufactured using MEMS processing to realize ultrasound sensors but not functional microphones.

In one embodiment of the present invention a microphone comprises a first and a second diaphragm where the first and second diaphragms form a top layer of a first and a second backside sealed cavity. The microphone further comprises a rocking structure coupled to the first and second diaphragms where the rocking structure rotates on a pivot and where the rocking structure is placed external to the first and second backside sealed cavities.

In another embodiment of the present invention a microphone comprises a diaphragm where the diaphragm forms a top layer of a backside sealed cavity. The microphone further comprises a rocking structure coupled to the diaphragm where the rocking structure rotates on a pivot and where the rocking structure is placed internal in the backside sealed cavity.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for fabricating a microphone comprises depositing and patterning a first structural layer to form a first and a second electrode on a substrate. The method further comprises depositing and patterning a first sacrificial layer onto the patterned first structural layer. Additionally the method comprises performing a dimpled cut in the first sacrificial layer used to create a pivot where the dimpled cut etches the first sacrificial layer in a manner that leaves a portion of the first sacrificial layer on the substrate. The method further comprises depositing and patterning a second structural layer on the patterned first sacrificial layer to form a first and a second diaphragm the pivot and a bottom layer of a rocking structure. In addition the method comprises depositing and patterning additional structural layers to form other layers of the rocking structure.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for fabricating a microphone comprises depositing and patterning a first structural layer to form a first and a second electrode on a substrate and a bottom layer of post structures. The method further comprises depositing and patterning a first sacrificial layer onto the patterned first structural layer. Additionally the method comprises performing a dimpled cut in the first sacrificial layer used to create a pivot where the dimpled cut etches the first sacrificial layer in a manner that leaves a portion of the first sacrificial layer on the substrate. Furthermore the method comprises depositing and patterning a second structural layer on the patterned first sacrificial layer to form the pivot and a bottom layer of a rocking structure. In addition the method comprises depositing and patterning additional structural layers to form other layers of the rocking structure.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details.

As stated in the Background section recently microelectromechanical systems MEMS processing has been used to fabricate miniature microphones. However most miniature microphones using MEMS processing use the deep reactive ion through wafer etch step thereby preventing CMOS compatibility. If however miniature microphones could use MEMS processing without the use of the through wafer deep reactive ion etch step then miniature microphones could be manufactured with CMOS compatible processes which have a significant cost advantage over other processes. Furthermore there is a desire to create a vacuum sealed microphone. By removing air from the gap a microphone with much lower self noise which results in higher fidelity can be fabricated with a potentially better frequency response. However a very stiff diaphragm would be required to prevent the structure from collapsing under external atmospheric pressure and such a structure would have poor sensitivity to small sound pressure due to its stiffness.

The principles of the present invention provide embodiments of a differential microphone also referred to as a pressure gradient microphone with sealed backside cavities that can be made with MEMS surface micromachining processes without the use of a through wafer deep reactive ion etch as discussed further below in connection with A B A J A B A J and A B. illustrates one embodiment of a directional microphone with two sealed backside cavities where the motion of two vacuum sealed diaphragms are coupled to an external freely rotating rocking structure. illustrates a top view of the rocking structure of the directional microphone of . illustrates an alternative embodiment of a directional microphone where the rocking structure is contained within a single large vacuum sealed cavity and coupled to two compliant diaphragms along the top of the cavity. are a flowchart of a method for fabricating the directional microphone of . depict cross sectional views of the directional microphone of during the fabrication steps described in . are a flowchart of a method for fabricating the directional microphone of . depict cross sectional views of the directional microphone of during the fabrication steps described in . illustrates posts arranged in a circular manner to support a diaphragm region of the directional microphone of and illustrate the process of vacuum sealing the microphone of .

Referring now to the Figures in detail illustrates an embodiment of the present invention of a directional microphone with sealed backside cavities A B each containing an electrode A B respectively. Backside cavities A B may collectively or individually be referred to as backside cavities or backside cavity respectively. Electrodes A B may collectively or individually be referred to as electrodes or electrode respectively. In one embodiment a diaphragm A B forms a portion of the topside of backside cavities A B respectively. Diaphragms A B may collectively or individually be referred to as diaphragms or diaphragm respectively.

Microphone may further include a rocking structure or beam coupled to diaphragms . Rocking structure is configured to rock or rotate on a pivot as discussed further below. The structure of microphone may reside on a substrate .

In one embodiment backside cavities are sealed with any gas including air and can be sealed under any pressure. In one embodiment backside cavities are sealed under vacuum so that no gas occupies the cavity.

In one embodiment a plurality of capacitors are formed between diaphragms and electrodes . In one embodiment a portion of the capacitors are used for sensing and a portion of the capacitors are used for electrostatic actuation.

In one embodiment rocking structure provides resistance to deflection under external atmospheric pressure and will provide a directional response to small dynamic sound pressure as discussed below. When sound waves which are small air pressure oscillations arrive at microphone in the y direction as labeled in the pressure oscillations impinge on both the right and left diaphragms at the same time. Force is balanced on both sides of rocking structure and there is no induced rocking motion. However when sound waves arrive from the x direction as labeled in a pressure imbalance exists between the left and right diaphragms due to the finite time it takes for sound to travel across microphone . This pressure imbalance applies a net moment to rocking structure which in turn forces rocking structure and diaphragms into motion. As a result rocking structure has an inherently directional response to sound. Such a feature is useful as it can enable applications where one can point a microphone in a direction of interest to attain maximum sensitivity while simultaneously filtering out ambient sounds coming from the side that would otherwise affect speech intelligibility and signal to noise ratio SNR .

Furthermore diaphragms are capable of resisting collapse under atmospheric pressure owing to the stiffness provided by rocking structure . In one embodiment rocking structure can be made completely insensitive to sound by including perforations into the structure of rocking structure as shown in . Said perforations also aid in reducing damping of the structure as described below.

Additionally rocking structure may include a design that is triangular in shape as shown in top view of rocking structure where rocking structure is wider along pivot and narrower along its edges in order to minimize the moment of inertia about its rotating axis.

Returning to in one embodiment microphone may be designed to provide additional resistance to deflection under external atmospheric pressure by placing an electrostatic charge of one type e.g. positive charge on diaphragms and placing an electrostatic charge of the same type on electrodes thereby forming an electrostatic repulsion between diaphragms and electrodes .

In another embodiment microphone may be designed to provide additional resistance to deflection under external atmospheric pressure by having diaphragms be made out of a magnetic material e.g. iron nickel which are then magnetized thereby generating a magnetic field. When current is run through diaphragms the magnetic field exerts an additional upward force on diaphragm to assist in preventing collapse under atmospheric pressure.

As discussed above when sound waves arrive from the x direction as labeled in a pressure imbalance exists between the left and right diaphragms A and B due to the finite time it takes for sound to travel across microphone . This pressure imbalance applies a net moment to rocking structure which in turn forces rocking structure and diaphragms into motion. The motion of rocking structure and or diaphragms can be sensed using any number of transduction principles common to MEMS and acoustic sensors such as piezoelectric optical piezoresistive and capacitive. For example diaphragms may be made electrically conductive so that parallel plate capacitors are formed by the diaphragms and electrodes .

An alternative directional microphone where the rocking structure is sealed along with the electrodes in a backside cavity is discussed below in connection with .

In one embodiment backside cavity is sealed with any gas including air and can be sealed under any pressure. In one embodiment backside cavity is sealed under vacuum so that no gas occupies the cavity.

In one embodiment a plurality of capacitors are formed between rocking structure and electrodes . In one embodiment a portion of the capacitors are used for sensing and a portion of the capacitors are used for electrostatic actuation.

As with the case of directional microphone of rocking structure of directional microphone provides resistance to deflection under external atmospheric pressure and will provide a directional response to small dynamic sound pressure as discussed below. When sound waves arrive at microphone in the y direction as labeled in the pressure oscillations impinge on both the right and left diaphragms at the same time. Force is balanced on both sides of rocking structure and there is no induced rocking motion. However when sound waves arrive from the x direction as labeled in a pressure imbalance exists. This pressure imbalance applied to diaphragms in turn applies a net moment to rocking structure which in turn forces rocking structure and diaphragms into motion. As a result rocking structure and diaphragms have an inherently directional response to sound.

As with the case with microphone rocking structure can be designed very stiff to resist deflection under atmospheric pressure acting on each diaphragm . Atmospheric pressure is omnidirectional and therefore the atmospheric pressure is balanced on both diaphragms .

Furthermore by placing rocking structure inside a cavity which may be vacuum sealed the effects of air damping on the motion of rocking structure are eliminated.

In addition in one embodiment rocking structure may include a design that is triangular in shape that is similar to the shape shown in the top view of rocking structure in order to minimize the moment of inertia about its rotating axis. Perforations may also be advantageous to further reduce moment of inertia.

Returning to the operation of microphone is similar in operation to microphone . For example the motion of rocking structure and or diaphragms can be sensed using any number of transduction principles common to MEMS and acoustic sensors such as piezoelectric optical piezoresistive and capacitive. For example the motion of rocking structure can change a capacitance which can be sensed with electronics. For instance rocking structure may be made electrically conductive so that parallel plate capacitors are formed by the rocking structure and electrodes .

As discussed above microphones and include two diaphragms with sealed backside cavities . In each microphone diaphragms are coupled to a rocking structure which will provide resistance to deflection under external atmospheric pressure and will provide a directional response to small dynamic sound pressure. Additionally each microphone can be manufactured using MEMS surface micromachining processes without the use of the through wafer deep reactive ion etch to create a backside cavity. In one embodiment microphones can be fabricated using a standard process with alternating sacrificial oxide and polysilicon layers such as Sandia s SUMMiT V 5 level surface micromachining processes or MEMSCAP s poly MUMPs process as discussed below in connection with A J B A J and A B. While the following discusses using such a sequence to fabricate microphones the principles of the present invention are not limited to such processes but can include other processes to fabricate microphones . Furthermore the principles of the present invention are not limited to enacting all the steps of a 5 level surface micromachining process. For example some of the steps described below may be combined or eliminated such as by depositing a fewer number of polysilicon and or sacrificial oxide layers to fabricate the microphones .

Referring to are a flowchart of a method for fabricating directional microphone of . will be discussed in conjunction with which depict cross sectional views of microphone during the fabrication steps described in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to in conjunction with FIGS. and A J in step a first layer of polysilicon is deposited on substrate . Substrate may be a blank silicon wafer or may be a silicon wafer with electrically insulating layers across its surface such as silicon dioxide or silicon nitride. In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 0.3 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the first layer of polysilicon is patterned to form electrodes A B as illustrated in .

In step a first sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the patterned first layer of polysilicon structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the first sacrificial oxide layer is patterned to define the height of the sealed cavities as illustrated in . In one embodiment the patterning of first sacrificial oxide layer may include making a dimpled cut to create pivot as shown in . A dimpled cut as used herein refers to etching the sacrificial oxide layer so that a portion of sacrificial oxide layer remains above substrate .

In step a second layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 1 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the second layer of polysilicon is patterned to form diaphragms pivot and a portion of the lower section of rocking structure as illustrated in .

In step a second sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 0.3 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the second sacrificial oxide layer is patterned as illustrated in .

In step a third layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 1.5 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the third layer of polysilicon is patterned to form a portion of the lower section of rocking structure as well as posts A B on top of diaphragms A B respectively as illustrated in . Posts A B are used to connect the diaphragms A B to rocking structure as shown further below.

Referring to in conjunction with FIGS. and A J in step a third sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the third sacrificial oxide layer is patterned as illustrated in .

In step a fourth layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2.25 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the fourth layer of polysilicon is patterned to form a portion of the upper section of rocking structure as well as form touchdowns A B to diaphragms A B as illustrated in .

In step a fourth sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2.0 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the fourth sacrificial oxide layer is patterned as illustrated in .

In step a fifth layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2.25 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the fourth layer of polysilicon is patterned to increase the thickness of the upper section of rocking structure as illustrated in .

In step a release etch is performed to remove the sacrificial oxide as illustrated in . In step cavities may be vacuum sealed via deposition of a thin material layer e.g. a metal which fills small etch holes in diaphragms . This sealing step will be described in greater detail below. Pivot will touch down when microphone deflects under atmospheric pressure when sealed.

In some implementations method may include other and or additional steps that for clarity are not depicted. Further in some implementations method may be executed in a different order presented and that the order presented in the discussion of is illustrative. Additionally in some implementations certain steps in method may be executed in a substantially simultaneous manner or may be omitted.

An embodiment of a method for fabricating directional microphone of will now be discussed below in connection with A J and A B.

Referring to in conjunction with FIGS. and A J in step a first layer of polysilicon is deposited on substrate . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 0.3 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the first layer of polysilicon is patterned to form electrodes A B and the bottom layer A B of the post structures as illustrated in .

In step a first sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the patterned first layer of polysilicon structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the first sacrificial oxide layer is patterned as illustrated in . In one embodiment the patterning of first sacrificial oxide layer may include making a dimpled cut to create pivot as shown in . A dimpled cut as used herein refers to etching the sacrificial oxide layer so that a portion of sacrificial oxide layer remains above substrate .

In step a second layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 1 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the second layer of polysilicon is patterned to form pivot a portion of the lower section of rocking structure as well as to add thickness A B to the post structures as illustrated in .

In step a second sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 0.3 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the second sacrificial oxide layer is patterned as illustrated in .

In step a third layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 1.5 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the third layer of polysilicon is patterned to form a portion of the lower section of rocking structure as well as to add thickness A B to the post structures as illustrated in .

Referring to in conjunction with FIGS. and A J in step a third sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the third sacrificial oxide layer is patterned to form posts A B on post structures as illustrated in .

In step a fourth layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2.25 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the fourth layer of polysilicon is patterned to form a portion of the upper section of rocking structure as well as to add thickness A B to the post structures as illustrated in .

In step a fourth sacrificial oxide layer is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2.0 m of sacrificial oxide is deposited in step . In step the fourth sacrificial oxide layer is patterned to form a portion of the upper section of rocking structure as well as form to posts A B on post structures as illustrated in .

In step a fifth layer of polysilicon is deposited onto the structure of . In one embodiment a thickness of approximately 2.25 m of polysilicon is deposited in step . In step the fifth layer of polysilicon is patterned to increase the thickness of the upper section of rocking structure and the post structures as illustrated in .

In step a release etch is performed to remove the sacrificial oxide as illustrated in . In step cavity is vacuum sealed as discussed further below.

In some implementations method may include other and or additional steps that for clarity are not depicted. Further in some implementations method may be executed in a different order presented and that the order presented in the discussion of is illustrative. Additionally in some implementations certain steps in method may be executed in a substantially simultaneous manner or may be omitted.

An additional view of the top surface of microphone is provided below in connection with . illustrates a portion of the top surface of microphone that includes a circular pattern of posts that extends from the top surface of microphone to the substrate in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to in conjunction with A B and A J a diaphragm region is formed by the free membrane between various posts A D arranged in a circular or any other manner. Posts A D may collectively or individually be referred to as posts or post respectively. While illustrates four posts arranged in a circular manner any number of posts may be arranged in a circular manner. In one embodiment posts extend from the top surface of microphone to the substrate level . Additionally a post connects the center of diaphragm to rocking structure . Furthermore a rigid side wall may surround microphone as illustrated in .

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

