---

title: Nanotubular titania for decontamination of chemical warfare agents and toxic industrial chemicals
abstract: The invention relates to methods and products enabling decontamination of chemical warfare agents and/or toxic industrial chemicals. More particularly, the invention pertains to improvements of surface decontamination processes using novel sorbents such as nanotubular titania.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08546313&OS=08546313&RS=08546313
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08546313
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121126
---
This Application is a Divisional of application Ser. No. 11 668 524 filed on Jan. 30 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 317 931 which is commonly assigned which claimed the benefit of priority from U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 806 861 filed on Jul. 10 2006.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates to reactive sorbents and methods of making and using the same for the decontamination of surfaces contaminated with highly toxic agents including chemical warfare CW agents and or industrial chemicals insecticides and the like. More particularly the invention relates to improvements of surface decontamination processes and reagents by the development and use of novel sorbents and sorbent preparation methods comprising titania such as nanotubular titania.

Exposure to toxic agents and especially CW agents and related toxins is a potential hazard to the armed forces and to civilian populations since CW agents are stockpiled by several nations and other nations and groups actively seek to acquire these materials. Some commonly known CW agents are bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide HD or mustard gas pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate GD and 0 ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethyl methylphosphonothioate VX as well as analogs and derivatives of these agents. More generally these types of chemical warfare agents are referred to as H G and V type agents. These CW agents are generally delivered as fine aerosol mists which aside from presenting an inhalation threat will deposit on surfaces of military equipment and hardware including uniforms weapons vehicles vans and shelters. Once such equipment and hardware is contaminated with one of the previously mentioned highly toxic agents the agent must be removed in order to minimize contact hazards.

For this reason there is an acute need to develop and improve technology for decontamination of highly toxic materials. This is especially true for the class of toxic agents known as nerve agents or nerve gases which are produced and stockpiled for both industrial use and as CW agents. Simply by way of example one class of nerve agents with a high level of potential lethality is the class that includes organophosphorus based OP compounds such as the G agents Sarin and Soman and the V agent VX. Such agents can be absorbed through inhalation and or through the skin of an animal or person. The organophosphorus type OP CW materials typically manifest their lethal effects against animals and people by inhibiting acetylcholineseterase AChE enzyme at neuromuscular junctions between nerve endings and muscle tissue to produce an excessive buildup of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in an animal or person. This can result in paralysis and death in a short time.

In addition to the concerns about CW agents there is also a growing need in the industry for decontamination of industrial chemicals and or insecticides for example ACHE inhibiting pesticides such as parathion paraoxon and malathion among others. Thus it is very important to be able to effectively detoxify a broad spectrum of toxic agents including but not limited to organophosphorus type compounds from contaminated surfaces and sensitive equipment.

One decontamination material used by the U.S. Army is XE555 resin Ambergard Rohm Haas Company Philadelphia Pa. . XE555 is presently being used by the military for immediate decontamination applications. The objective of immediate decontamination operations is to remove toxic agents from the contaminated surface as rapidly as possible. However XE555 has several disadvantages. Although effective at removing chemical agents XE555 does not possess sufficient reactive properties to neutralize the toxic agent s picked up by this resin. Thus after use for decontamination purposes XE555 itself presents an ongoing threat from off gassing toxins and or vapors mixed with the resin. In addition XE555 is relatively expensive in the quantities required for decontamination purposes. Other reactive sorbents used by the army are A 200 an alumina based material used in the M100 Sorbent Decontamination System. Although both of these solid phase decontaminates are able to quickly remove CW agents from surfaces they suffer from slow reactions with CW agents such as GD HD and VX compared to typical liquid phase decontaminants . Thus the contaminated sorbents present a persistent hazard themselves following their use. This is particularly true for VX the most persistent and toxic of these agents. Clearly improved sorbents are required to eliminate this potential secondary contamination hazard present by current conventional sorbents following their use.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to meet the foregoing needs by providing reactive sorbents that are able to effectively decontaminate CW agents and minimize the creation of secondary hazards. Such reactive sorbents of the present invention are for example based on nanotubular titania.

One embodiment of the present invention is a method of decontaminating a surface believed to be contaminated with one or more toxic agents wherein said method comprises contacting said contaminated surface with nanotubular titania. The one or more toxic agent s is preferably selected from the group consisting of bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate 0 ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethyl methylphosphonothioate or a combination thereof and it is preferred that the nanotubular titania is a powder.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a method of decontaminating a surface believed to be contaminated with one or more toxic agents wherein said method comprises contacting said contaminated surface with a sorbent comprising nanotubular titania. The sorbent may contain water preferably in the range of 15 to 20 weight percent of water. The one or more toxic agent s is preferably selected from the group consisting of bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate 0 ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethyl methylphosphonothioate or a combination thereof.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a method of decontaminating a surface believed to be contaminated with one or more toxic agents wherein said method comprises contacting said contaminated surface with a material including a sorbent wherein the sorbent comprises nanotubular titania. The material may comprise a fabric having in the range of 100 grams to 400 grams of sorbent preferably 300 grams of sorbent. The sorbent may comprise 100 percent nanotubular titania approximately 100 percent nanotubular titania or a mixture of nanotubular titania and water. The material or fabric may be in the shape of a mitt or any shape a user may find easy to hold so that the user may easily contact the material to a contaminated surface resulting in the sorbent passing through the material and being deposited on said contaminated surface.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a kit comprising a material comprising a sorbent wherein the sorbent comprises nanotubular titania. It is preferred that the material is in a package.

Reference will now be made to preferred embodiments of this invention examples of which will be obvious from the detailed description of the invention. The present invention relates to methods and products for removing and deactivating a wide range of highly toxic materials including CW agents. In order to appreciate the scope of the invention the terms toxin toxic agent and toxic material are intended to be equivalent unless expressly stated to the contrary. In addition the terms nerve gas nerve agent neurotoxic and the like are intended to be equivalent and to refer to a toxin that acts or manifests toxicity at least in part by disabling a component of an animal nervous system e.g. ACH inhibitors as discussed supra. The term HD shall mean bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide or mustard gas. The term GD shall mean pinacolyl methylphosphonothioate and the term VX shall mean 0 ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethyl methylphosphonothioate. The terms titania conventional titania and anatase shall mean the same substance.

Sorbents of the present invention may be made entirely of or include nanotubular titania a nanoscale material that possesses significantly different properties than its counterpart titania. Nanotubular titania can be produced using the methods taught in Decontamination of 2 Chloroethyl Ethylsulfide Using Titanate Nanoscrolls Chemical Physics Letters Vol 411 2005 81 85 by Alfred Kleinhammes George W. Wagner Harsha Kulkarni Yuanyuan Jia Qi Zhang Lu Chang Qin and Yue Wu herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Although many metal oxides have proven effective for decontamination of HD and even GD testing of these same metal oxides has found them not nearly as effective for decontamination of V agents. The chemistry of HD is very different from V and G agents and previously tested oxides have exhibited good reaction with HD and even G agents but they react exceedingly slow with VX. In contrast nanotubular titania has unexpectedly been found to be the exception to the rule exhibiting excellent reactivity with VX thereby proving to be an effective and safe decontaminant for all three major types of chemical warfare agents.

Nanotubular titania is surprisingly more effective in the decontamination of all three major types of chemical warfare agents such HD GD and VX and is particularly efficacious compared to sorbents including conventional titania and or alumina. In addition most sorbents are deactivated when contacted with water such as water contamination or ambient moisture. For example metal oxides such as MgO CaO and alumina have been fashioned into nanoparticles. However these metal oxide nanoparticles have proven unstable in the presence of air and or moisture. Surprisingly the addition of water water contamination or ambient moisture does not deactivate sorbents of the present invention. Instead the addition of water serves to enhance the reactivity of nanotubular titania with all CW agents tested as shown in Example 1.

It is preferred the nanotubular titania used in the present invention exhibit nanoscale tubular structures reminiscent of rolled up paper scrolls. This unique structure provides for a much greater surface area than even normal nanocrystalline titania. Additionally its tubular structure prevents tight packing in macroscopic aggregates thus preserving its high surface area and porosity. It is thought the reasons the sorbents of the present invention have unexpected and beneficial characteristics is based on this nanotubular titania structure. Further the nanotubular form is also air stable suggesting that it is equally robust and bio compatible non toxic as its conventional edible titania cousin thus inadvertent ingestion is not expected to be harmful. Titania is known to be extremely stable and able to pass through human digestion unscathed thus it is approved for inclusion in food items such as cookie icing. An additional benefit of using nanotubular titania in as a sorbent is its non toxic nature even if it is ingested by humans.

Sorbents of the present invention preferably contain 100 nanotubular titania approximately 100 nanotubular titania or a combination of nanotubular titania and other components. Other sorbents could be mixed with nanotubular titania but such mixtures are not preferred if the other sorbents have unwanted characteristics and would result in mixtures absorbing CW agents without decontamination i.e. a secondary hazard or having air moisture instability etc.

Nanotubular titania is compatible with the XM100 Sorbent Decontamination System SDS . The SDS is described in Formal Test Report for the XM100 Sorbent Decontamination System SDS Decontamination Laboratory Testing WDTC TR 01 037 West Desert Test Center U.S. Army Dugway Proving Ground November 2002. Nanotubular titania could be employed as a drop in replacement i.e. substitute for the A 200 sorbent currently utilized in the XM100 SDS. This conventional kit consists of 300 g A 200 sorbent contained in a car wash style mitt which is sealed in a foil pack. Instead of 300 g A 200 sorbent the mitt or material would preferably include 300 g of nanotubular titania. The material mitt may include in the range of 100 grams to 400 grams of nanotubular titania. To use this kit the foil pack is torn open the mitt is remove and place over the user s gloved hand and simply rubbed over the surface to be decontaminated. During rubbing the sorbent i.e. nanotubular titania passes through the woven material of the mitt to deposit on the surface. The mitt maybe made of conventional materials and can be purchased as an off the shelf commercial item. The mitt acts as a convenient carrier applicator for the sorbent.

Nanotubular titania powder can be employed to decontaminate surfaces in the same manner as other reactive sorbents such as XE 555 and A 200. The powder can be simply sprinkled poured or sprayed onto the surface and then rubbed to enhance contact and mixing with liquid contaminants. In addition nanotubular titania and other components may be manufactured as a mitt and used as described above.

Nanotubular titania was contacted with drops of neat HD GD and VX to determine the rate of reactions of these agents with the sorbent. Conventional titania or anatase was also contacted with drops of VX to verify the apparent advantages afforded by nanotubular titania for the accelerated decontamination of this agent. Observed half lives for these reactions are shown in . Water was added to both nanotubular titania and the conventional titania to demonstrate its impact on CW agent reactivity. Data for alumina is also included to show the advantages of titania in general over this current sorbent material. As shown in and looking at the column labeled Alumina the data illustrates the persistent problem of long half lives of CW agents when a current reactive sorbent is used. The half life of GD on Alumina is 2.7 hours the half life of HD on alumina is 18.2 hours and the half life of VX on alumina is an astounding 15.0 days. VX the most persistent of these CW agents is typically the slowest to react with sorbents and alumina is no exception to this rule. Yet the reaction of VX on conventional titania is orders of magnitude faster as the observed half life of alumina which is the half life of VX on conventional titania anatase is 4.3 hours compared to the half life of VX on alumina of 15 days. Thus conventional titania itself offers a considerable reactive advantage over alumina where VX is concerned.

Nanotubular titania affords further improvements in reactivity towards VX than conventional titania anatase . The half life of VX on nanotubular titania is 58 minutes compared to the half life of VX on convention titania anatase which exhibits a half life of only 4.3 hours. Furthermore it is evident that the nanotubular titania reactivity is rather unique since for a given sorbent VX typically reacts much slower than either HD or GD. Yet VX deposited on nanotubular titania actually reacts faster than either HD or GD. The addition of water 15 20 by weight to the nanotubular titania accelerates the rate of reaction of all the agents whereas on other sorbents water or moisture can seriously degrade their performance. Such is the case for conventional titania where water causes a dramatic increase in the VX half life from 4.3 hours to 10.5 days. Solid State NMR was used to monitor the reactions of VX GD and HD with the reactive sorbents in situ as previously described Wagner et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 123 2001 1636 1644 .

In conclusion nanotubular titania is effective in decontamination of all three major types of chemical warfare agents such as HD GD and VX and is particularly efficacious toward the latter agent compared to contemporary reactive sorbents such as alumina. Another advantage of nanotubular titania is that water contamination or ambient moisture does not deactivate the sorbent rather it serves to enhance the reactivity toward all the agents tested.

Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to examples above it is understood that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly the invention is limited only by the following claims. All cited patents patent applications and publications referred to in this application are herein expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

