---

title: Adaptive UL-DL configurations in a TDD heterogeneous network
abstract: Technology for traffic offloading to generate a low interference flexible subframe (FlexSF) of an adaptive uplink-downlink (UL-DL) time-division duplexing (TDD) subframe configuration in a heterogeneous network (HetNet) is disclosed. One method can include an evolved Node B (eNB) monitoring a traffic loading metric for a specified traffic loading condition. The eNB can offload traffic scheduled for a packet of a macro user equipment (UE) from a macro cell to a FlexSF of a UL-DL subframe configuration of a small cell when the specified traffic loading condition exists. The eNB can be a macro eNB of the macro cell or a small eNB of the small cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185620&OS=09185620&RS=09185620
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09185620
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 653 369 filed May 30 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Homogeneous networks or HetNets can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD for DL or UL transmissions. Time division duplexing TDD is an application of time division multiplexing TDM to separate downlink and uplink signals. In TDD downlink signals and uplink signals may be carried on a same carrier frequency where the downlink signals use a different time interval from the uplink signals so the downlink signals and the uplink signals do not generate interference for each other. TDM is a type of digital multiplexing in which two or more bit streams or signals such as a downlink or uplink are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub channels in one communication channel but are physically transmitted on different resources. In frequency division duplexing FDD an uplink transmission and a downlink transmission can operate using different frequency carriers. In FDD interference can be avoided because the downlink signals use a different frequency carrier from the uplink signals.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The HetNet can include macro nodes that can typically transmit at high power level for example approximately 5 watts W to 40 W to cover the macro cell . The HetNet can be overlaid with low power nodes LPNs and which may transmit at substantially lower power levels such as approximately 100 milliwatts mW to 2 W. In an example an available transmission power of the macro node may be at least ten times an available transmission power of the low power node. A LPN can be used in hot spots or hot zones referring to areas with a high wireless traffic load or high volume of actively transmitting wireless devices e.g. user equipments UEs . A LPN can be used in a microcell a picocell a femtocell and or home network.

In the example of a wireless device e.g. UE A E A B A B and can be served by the macro node or one the LPN and . Wireless devices can be described in relation to the cells e.g. nodes in a network. For example the HetNet can include a macro cell and four small cells. Wireless devices primarily served by the macro node in the macro cell coverage area can be referred to as macro UEs MUEs A E. Wireless devices primarily served by the small node and e.g. LPN or pico node in the small cell coverage area and e.g. pico cell can be referred to as pico UEs PUEs A B A B and .

HetNet deployments have been recognized to offer efficient means to increase cellular coverage and capacity compared to traditional homogeneous networks and may involve the co existence of different radio access technologies transmission reception techniques and base station BS transmission powers among other possible architectural combinations. For time division duplexing TDD systems and networks allowing adaptive uplink downlink UL DL subframe configurations depending on traffic conditions in different cells can significantly improve system performance. Legacy LTE TDD can support asymmetric UL DL allocations by providing seven different semi statically configured uplink downlink subframe configurations. Table 1 illustrates seven UL DL configurations used in legacy LTE where D represents a downlink DL subframe S represents a special subframe and U represents an uplink UL subframe. The special subframe can operate similar to downlink subframe relative to the transmission direction.

As illustrated by Table 1 UL DL configuration can include 6 uplink subframes in subframes and and include 4 downlink or special subframes in subframes and and UL DL configuration can include one uplink subframe in subframe and include 9 downlink or special subframes in subframes and . The UL DL configuration can be considered an uplink favored UL DL configuration and UL DL configuration can be considered a downlink favored UL DL configuration. Advanced UL DL configuration may not constrain subframes and to be DL subframes subframe to be a special subframe or subframe to be an UL subframe. In some advanced UL DL configurations each subframe can allow opposite transmission directions so subframes and can be a DL UL or special subframe.

In an example cells e.g. macro cell and small cells of the network can change the UL DL configurations synchronously in order to avoid the interference with other cells. However such a requirement can constrain the traffic management capabilities in different cells of the network. The existing set of legacy TDD UL DL configurations can provide DL subframe allocations in the range between 40 to 90 as shown in Table 1. With legacy LTE the UL and DL subframes allocation within a radio frame can be reconfigured through system information broadcast signaling. Hence the UL DL allocation once configured may be expected to vary semi statically in an example. Predetermined or semi statically configured UL DL configurations may not match an instantaneous traffic situation resulting in inefficient resource utilization especially in cells with a small number of users e.g. UEs that download or upload large amounts of data. Adaptive UL DL configurations can be used to handle cell dependent traffic asymmetry and match instantaneous traffic situations. For such TDD LTE deployments with different UL DL configurations in different cells new types of interferences including BS to BS and UE to UE interference can be generated. A type of interference that can impair functionality of the network can be the inter cell DL UL BS to BS interference which may significantly reduce the benefits obtained from the adaptability of UL DL configurations in different cells.

The strong level of BS BS DL UL interference between macro cells in a homogeneous network or between a macro cell and small cells in a HetNet can make dynamic adaptation of UL DL configuration difficult to implement. To resolve issues with BS BS interference in an example the LTE TDD networks can align transmission directions of each subframe of the macro cells with the subframes of other cells so the cells work synchronously with each other effectively avoiding DL UL inter cell interference.

In another example the adaptive change of UL DL configurations at the lower power nodes can provide substantial increase of packet throughput to the LPN users even after compensating for the additional interference. A dynamic adjustment of UL DL configurations can be feasible for single operator macro pico and macro femto deployments when macro and low power nodes e.g. pico nodes or femto nodes operate in adjacent carrier frequencies. A dynamic adjustment of UL DL configurations can also be feasible in scenarios where macro and LPNs work in a co channel and LPNs adjust the UL DL configuration to instantaneous traffic conditions. Some technical challenges in macro pico co channel scenario with dynamic adaptation of UL DL configurations at pico stations can include the DL UL interference on macro pico and pico pico links. Technology described herein can resolve or mitigate the DL UL interference and provide effective applications to a macro pico co channel scenario with dynamic adaptation of UL DL configurations at pico stations e.g. pico nodes .

In the simulation results show the UL SINR a measurement for interference for PUE for two cases and where all the macro and pico nodes are active i.e. full system loading including a case where 100 of the macro subframes are configured as UL subframes and another case where 100 of the macro subframes are configured as DL subframes. 100 of the pico subframes are configured as UL subframes during the UL to the PUE. The simulation results also show the SINR for a partial system loading case where one eighth part of macro and pico cells is randomly activated where 100 of the macro subframes are configured as DL subframes. The partial system loading case illustrates the potential interference environment at low system loadings.

In the simulation results show the UL SINR for MUE for two cases and where all the macro and pico nodes are active including a case where 50 of the pico subframes are configured as DL subframes and 50 of the pico subframes are configured as UL subframes and another case where 100 of the pico subframes are configured as UL subframes. 100 of the macro subframes are configured as UL subframes during the UL to the MUE. The simulation results also show the SINR for a partial system loading case where one eighth part of macro and pico cells is randomly activated where 50 of the pico subframes are configured as DL subframes and 50 of the pico subframes are configured as UL subframes.

An observation from the simulation results of can be that macro and pico cells can have a strong coupling on macro pico links. The strong DL inter cell interference from macro and pico stations i.e. nodes can result in a significant UL performance degradation of PUEs and MUEs respectively. A poor UL SINR performance can be a bottleneck that can prevent dynamic adaptation of UL DL configuration in macro pico co channels scenarios.

Interference management and traffic adaptation IMTA methods can be used to efficiently resolve the DL UL interference and extract benefits from traffic adaptation in the macro pico co channel scenario. For example methods such as isolated cell clustering interference mitigation CCIM and reduced transmit power on flexible subframes FlexSF can be used to mitigate DL UL interference. In isolated CCIM pico cells generating interference which can be determined using path gains on each other above a specified or predetermined threshold are grouped or clustered together and operate using a same UL DL configuration. Pico cells not generating interference or generating interference on each other below the specified or predetermined threshold can be considered as isolated from the other pico cell groups or clusters and operate independently of the other pico cell groups or clusters allowing the isolated pico cell or pico cluster to change the UL DL configuration without coordination with other pico cell groups or clusters.

The isolated CCIM method can be effective for pico pico co channel deployment scenario but may not be as effective for macro pico co channel deployment scenarios. For example the isolated CCIM method can be potentially generalized for the case of macro pico co channel deployment to address the problem of DL inter cell interference from pico cells on UL transmissions of macro UEs MUEs . According to the isolated CCIM method the path gains of pico macro links can be measured and used to form clusters that consist from macro and or pico cells. The pico cells that have a strong coupling with the macro cell can use a same UL DL configuration as the macro cells and the remaining pico cells can be considered as isolated cells or can form isolated clusters from pico cells with a weak coupling with the macro cell. A drawback of macro pico isolated CCIM can substantially limit the traffic adaptation capabilities of pico cells.

Another approach to mitigate the negative impact from DL inter cell interference from pico stations on UL performance of macro UEs can be to reduce the transmission power on flexible subframes FlexSF of pico stations. A FlexSF can be a subframe that may change transmission directions from one UL DL configuration to another. For legacy LTE UL DL configuration the FlexSF can include subframes and . For advanced UL DL configurations the FlexSF can include any subframe that can change transmission directions from one UL DL configuration to another e.g. subframes . Similarly the negative impact from DL inter cell interference from macro node on UL performance of pico UEs can be mitigated by reducing the transmission power on the FlexSF of macro stations.

Offloading macro user traffic from the macro node to the pico node and subframe muting referred to as method can be another IMTA technique to reduce the DL UL interference and achieve performance gains in DL and UL packet throughput for the macro pico co channel scenario. In addition using a reduced UL DL adaptation set for pico cells referred to as method can reduce the DL UL interference and achieve performance gains in DL and UL packet throughput for the macro pico co channel scenario. Offloading macro user traffic muting macro subframes and reducing the UL DL adaptation set for pico cells can take into account inter cell interference from macro cells which inter cell interference can prevent effective implementation of adaptive change of UL DL configuration at pico cells.

A reduced UL DL adaptation set can be generated by applying subset constraint i.e. method . For example when macro cells operate in DL the UL SINR of pico UEs can be negative even with low system loading as shown in . An UL transmission can experience significant interference when macro stations e.g. macro nodes transmit DL signals. To avoid macro DL transmissions a reduced set of UL DL configurations can be applied at a pico cell. By applying such a constraint the DL subframes of the macro cell can be a subset of pico cell DL subframes. For instance each DL subframe of the macro cell can correspond to a DL or special subframe of the pico cell and each UL subframe of the macro cell can correspond to a UL DL or special subframe of the pico cell. The DL subframe of pico cell can be a superset of the macro cell. illustrates an example of a reduced UL DL adaptation set of a pico cell based on a macro UL DL configuration. If a macro cell use reference UL DL configuration for radio frame the pico cells may be allowed to use UL DL configurations where macro UL subframes configured to change transmission directions in other UL DL configuration other than subframe in legacy LTE can be configured as flexible subframes FlexSF for the pico cell. The FlexSF can be used for either the UL or DL transmission at the pico cell. In the example shown in for macro UL DL configuration the FlexSF can include subframes and .

The reduced adaptation set can mitigate the DL UL interference for UL SINR of the pico UEs. However the UL traffic adaptation capabilities at pico stations may be reduced and performance gains in UL against reference UL DL configuration may not be substantial. Applying UL favored TDD configurations at the macro cells e.g. TDD configuration with 4 6 DL UL ratio can improve adaptation capabilities at a pico node which can increase the size of the TDD configurations adaptation set at the pico cells. Using UL DL configuration allows the pico cell to use all seven legacy UL DL configurations in the pico UL DL adaptation set in which case the pico UL DL adaptation set is not reduced. In contrast using UL DL configuration can restrict the pico cell to one legacy UL DL configuration e.g. UL DL configuration in the pico UL DL adaptation set which may not provide any advantage over a synchronous macro pico UL DL configuration. So the pico UL DL adaptation set can range from one to seven legacy UL DL configuration s when legacy UL DL configurations are used.

The pico UL DL adaptation set can be used to mitigate the impact of macro DL inter cell interference on UL pico reception and also pico DL inter cell interference on macro UL reception. The pico UL DL adaptation set can provide a cross cell interference coordination mechanism between macro and small cells e.g. pico cells .

Macro user traffic offloading and or macro subframe muting i.e. method can be used both to mitigate the impact of macro DL inter cell interference on UL pico reception and to mitigate the impact of DL inter cell interference from pico cells on macro UL performance. Main issues of macro pico co channel deployment scenario that can reduce the effectiveness of dynamic UL DL reconfiguration at pico cells can include strong DL inter cell interference from macro cells on pico cell UL transmissions affecting PUEs and strong DL inter cell interference from pico cells on macro cell UL transmissions affecting MUEs .

Strong DL inter cell interference from macro cells can restrict the usage of pico cell UL transmission direction on DL subframes of macro cells. The strong DL inter cell interference from macro cells can reduce improvements of UL packet throughput for pico cells when compared to reference UL DL configuration.

Strong DL inter cell interference from pico cells on macro cells can degrade UL performance of macro and pico UEs. CCIM can be used to mitigate performance degradation of pico UEs but CCIM may not resolve a performance loss of macro UEs.

User offloading mechanisms including offloading traffic from macro cells to pico cells in combination with methods of muting DL macro subframes can be used to avoid or mitigate the DL UL interference between macro and pico cells. Macro nodes serving the macro UEs can offload at least portion of the MUE traffic e.g. a packet of the MUE to pico cells thus decreasing the load on the macro cell. The UL traffic and or DL traffic can be offloaded from the macro node.

When the macro cells offload the macro UE uplink traffic to pico cells little to no negative impact of DL inter cell interference from the pico cells to the UL reception of the macro cells may occur since the UL traffic can be offloaded to the pico cells. For offloading of the macro UE uplink traffic DL favored UL DL configurations can be applied at the pico cells without encountering the performance loss at the macro cells since at least a portion of the uplink traffic can be handled by the pico cells so the macro cell has less uplink traffic.

Offloading of the macro UE downlink traffic from the macro cells to the pico cells can have various positive effects. For example the pico cells can start applying the UL favored UL DL configurations that can increase UL packet throughput. For instance the pico cells can use the DL subframes of the macro cells for UL transmission in the pico cells. Another benefit can be that offloading of the macro DL traffic can improve an overall interference environment in the network which can also improve the DL throughput of the pico cell UEs. For instance when macro DL traffic is offloaded the DL subframes of macro cells can be considered as low interference muted subframes so those subframes may not inject strong interference to the reception of traffic for the pico UEs.

Depending on implementation the macro to pico traffic offloading may be applied for UL only DL only or for both DL and UL traffic. illustrates an example of offloading UL macro traffic. illustrates an example of offloading DL macro traffic. illustrates an example of offloading both UL and DL macro traffic. In the examples shown in a reference HetNet system can use a legacy UL DL configuration in the macro cell and pico cells. In legacy LTE UL DL configurations subframes and can be referred to as FlexSF and fixed subframes and can be referred to as regular subframes. can be compared to the pico cells use dynamic adaptation of UL DL configurations while the macro cells apply UL DL configuration .

In legacy LTE UL DL configurations since some of the macro cell and pico cell subframes are always aligned in terms of the transmission direction i.e. D S subframes and U subframe the traffic offloading may be applied to a portion of DL and or UL traffic while the macro cell may continue serving the remaining MUEs in regular subframes with the fixed transmission direction. Advanced UL DL configuration may not have a constraint on subframes with the fixed transmission direction. The offloading of the macro DL and or UL traffic may allow additional traffic to be offloaded.

In the UL traffic can be offloaded from macro cells to pico cells . As a result the subframes and can be freed up and used for the DL transmission at the pico cells without affecting uplink performance of the macro UEs. The usage of the DL favored UL DL configurations e.g. UL DL configurations or from the available UL DL configurations e.g. UL DL configurations or can substantially improve the DL packet throughput of pico UEs due to more flexible traffic adaptation capabilities at the pico cells. At the same time the macro UE can still serve some of the UL traffic in a remaining UL subframe using a legacy LTE UL DL configuration . In another example pico cells can use the DL favored UL DL configurations and apply CCIM or other interference mitigation methods to avoid DL UL interference problem on pico links.

In another example a hybrid scheme i.e. method can include using a combination of an UL DL adaptation set at the pico cell i.e. method and macro user traffic offloading and or macro subframe muting i.e. method by joint optimization. The combination of a reduced UL DL adaptation set method and traffic offloading can be used to further increase the benefits of UL DL reconfiguration at pico cells. For example the macro cell can attempt to offload the DL and or UL heavy MUEs to the pico cell using method . As the DL traffic increases at some point the small cell e.g. pico cell can adopt the DL UL configuration to increase the DL subframe allocation based on a subset constraint proposed by method e.g. UL DL configuration can switch to UL DL configuration see . The modification of the UL DL configuration of the UL DL adaptation set can be iteratively optimized to adjust to the time varying traffic conditions of the network. As traffic or other condition change e.g. loading or coverage some UE can switch back to the macro cell from the small cell e.g. UL heavy UE due to the limited UL capacity in small cell or moving out of range of the small cell . When some UE switch back to the macro cell or when a UL DL traffic pattern of a small cell changes the small cell e.g. pico cell can adopt a UL DL configuration to decrease the DL subframe allocation based on the subset constraint of method e.g. UL DL configuration can switch to UL DL configuration .

In another example a hybrid scheme i.e. method can include using a combination of method and or and a CCIM method. The combination of the CCIM method and the method s and or can be applied to improve the performance. For example when the macro pico interference is mitigated or avoided using the method s and or the pico pico interference may still exist. Additionally applying cell clustering approach e.g. CCIM method which can divide the set of small cells e.g. pico cells into cell clusters according to some metric e.g. inter cell coupling loss can mitigate the pico pico interference. The isolated cell clusters can be allowed to independently adapt their TDD configurations based on the instantaneous traffic conditions. So each the cells inside one isolated cell cluster can use a same TDD configuration and ensure a same transmission direction thus avoiding a negative impact of BS BS interference inside the cluster. Meanwhile other neighboring clusters can use different TDD configurations that may be adapted according to their respective traffic conditions.

Some technical benefits of offloading using an UL DL adaption set and or implementing IMTA can be observed from the example of the DL and UL cell average packet throughputs illustrated by . Offloading of macro UEs to pico cells can provide a substantial improvement of the DL inter cell interference environment since macro DL subframes can be converted into low interference subframes or almost blank subframes ABS . In addition traffic adaptation capabilities at pico cells can be reduced due to slightly increased amount of traffic in pico cells but the pico cells can start using the UL favored or DL favored configuration that can substantially improves traffic adaptation capabilities which can generate an overall improvement of traffic adaptation capabilities. The offloading of macro UEs to pico cells and even without traffic adaptation can enable better DL and UL packet throughput performance compared to the reference case and . The dynamic adaptation of UL DL configurations at pico cells in combination with isolated cell clustering interference mitigation CCIM method and can further improve DL and UL packet throughput performance. As shown by the examples of when macro UEs are offloaded to pico cells the dynamic UL DL configuration can be beneficial even for a challenging macro pico co channel scenario. When efficient macro user offloading mechanisms e.g. method are utilized in combination with interference management and traffic adaptation e.g. method at pico cells a significant improvement in terms of UL and DL packet throughputs can be achieved.

Macro UE user and or traffic offloading can be implemented in a semi static or dynamic way. For a semi static approach an LTE mechanism such as enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC high interference indication HII or overload indication OI can be applied. For example the eICIC mechanisms with large RSRP bias can be used to offload users from macro cells to pico cells. For instance depending of the reference UL DL configuration in the macro cell the macro nodes can coordinate an ABS info pattern among macro cells and apply the ABS info pattern for the HetNet. In addition the overload indication O or high interference indication HII mechanisms can be reused jointly with a cell admission control mechanism. In addition the macro cell can configure some of the DL subframes as multicast broadcast single frequency network MBSFN subframes to minimize the interference from macro cells in the network.

A network can support frequency domain inter cell interference coordination ICIC or time domain enhanced ICIC eICIC . In an example ICIC can be used to decrease interference between neighboring cells or nodes e.g. coordination nodes or cooperation nodes by lowering the power of a part of the subchannels in the frequency domain which then can be received close to the node. The subchannels do not interfere with the same subchannels used in neighboring cells and thus data can be sent to mobile devices with less interference on the subchannels close to the cell.

Enhanced ICIC eICIC can be used in the time domain for heterogeneous networks HetNets where a high power macro cell can be complemented with low power nodes such as pico cells hotspots in shopping centers or at airports or femto cells hotspots in small areas such as homes or businesses . The low power nodes can exist inside a macro cell coverage area. The macro cell can transmit long range high power signals and the low power nodes can transmit low power signals over short distances. In an example to mitigate interference between the macro cell and the several low power nodes located within the macro cell coverage area eICIC can coordinate the blanking of subframes in the time domain in the macro cell.

Dynamic offloading can be performed depending on instantaneous traffic conditions in the network cells. The dynamic mechanisms can include cooperative processing among the macro cell and a plurality of pico cells. For instance a user e.g. MUE in communication with the macro cell can monitor a link quality with the neighboring pico cells. The UE can measure a channel quality for different interference environments e.g. regular or ABS subframes and report a corresponding channel quality indicator CQI feedback for both macro and pico cells. Based on the channel quality feedback information e.g. CQI and traffic conditions the macro cell or central processing unit CPU or central processing module CPM can determine whether the user traffic can be offloaded to the pico cells or not. The CPU or CPM can be used as a baseband unit BBU for multiple node e.g. eNBs of the network e.g. HetNet such as in a centralized cooperative or cloud radio access network C RAN or CRAN . The dynamic approach can be implemented with CRAN architecture where processing of several cells can be performed by one CPU or CPM. In CRAN the node functionality can be subdivided between a baseband unit BBU processing pool and a remote radio unit RRU or a remote radio head RRH with optical fiber connecting the BBU to the RRU. The C RAN can provide centralized processing co operative radio and real time cloud infrastructure RAN. In an example a dynamic point selection DPS approach can be applied and user e.g. UE can be configured to receive data from other cell. Dynamic point selection DPS allows dynamic offloading of traffic from the macro node to a LPN in a coordination set e.g. Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP cluster . The traffic offloading in DPS can be achieved by adaptive re selection of a serving point e.g. from a macro node to a LPN and applying resource blanking e.g. on macro node to suppress interference. DPS can be a dynamic extension of the semi static cell range expansion CRE process and a time domain eICIC process. The scheduling for DPS can be conducted in centralized manner simultaneously for the macro node and the LPNs within one coordination set e.g. CoMP cluster . In another example the macro and pico cells can exchange the information on the UE DL UL channel quality e.g. CQI in different interference environments e.g. regular or muted ABS subframes as well as current traffic buffer states to estimate the potential performance benefits and to make determinations on traffic offloading.

The combination of macro user offloading with isolated cell clustering e.g. CCIM of pico cells can represent a combination that enables dynamic adjustment of UL DL configuration at the pico cells. Methods can substantially increase the DL and UL packet throughput for both macro and pico UEs in a DL UL interference macro pico co channel deployment scenario. The UE offloading from the macro cells can substantially improve the DL inter cell interference environment and extend dynamic traffic adaptation capabilities at the pico cells e.g. UL favored configuration can be applied at the pico cells even if the macro cells are configured to use DL favored configurations . In new carrier types the usage of user offloading and macro cell muting can be even more beneficial since the muted subframes can have a lower density of cell reference signals CRS . For instance CRSs can be transmitted with 5 millisecond ms periodicity and can be potentially allocated to regular subframes or just a few subframes per frame. In some cases the DL subframes from macro cells can be considered as completely muted.

A new DL or UL packet can appear at the UE served by the macro cell . The macro cell can get information on UE traffic requirements e.g. amount of data and or a quality of service QoS parameter . The macro cell can command the UE to perform channel quality measurements to some of the neighboring pico cells or remote radio heads RRHs . The channel quality measurements can be obtained if the macro cell does not have updated measurements. The channel quality measurements can be obtained in advance and the macro cell may be aware of the channel quality before the user packet arrives. The UE can perform channel quality measurements on the pico UE links and report the measurements to the macro cell . The macro cell can make a determination whether to offload the UE to the pico cell . Multiple criteria can be used to make the determination. For instance the potential gain in the UE packet throughput can be estimated to make the determination.

If the macro cell makes the determination to offload the UE to the pico cell the macro cell offloads the UE to the pico cell . The pico cells can adapt the pico cell TDD UL DL configuration to fit new traffic conditions taking into account the traffic and UL DL configuration used in the macro cell . In an example the pico cell TDD UL DL configuration can be adapted in accordance with the TDD configuration adaptation time scale. The DL packet can be transmitted from the pico cell to the UE or the UL packet can be transmitted from the UE to the pico cell .

If the UE is not offloaded to the pico cell the DL packet can be transmitted from the macro cell to the UE or the UL packet can be transmitted from the UE to the macro cell e.g. using regular subframe . During the transmission e.g. steps or the network e.g. macro cell pico cell CPU and or CMU can revise the decision and return the UE to the macro cell or offload another UE.

A similar procedure may be applied to transfer traffic from one pico cell to another pico cell to enable a more efficient traffic adaptation. For example transferring traffic between pico cells can be beneficial when one of the pico cells is loaded and another has both DL and or UL traffic.

Another example provides a method for traffic offloading to generate a low interference flexible subframe FlexSF of an adaptive uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD subframe configuration in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of monitoring a traffic loading metric at an evolved Node B eNB for a specified traffic loading condition as in block . The operation of offloading traffic scheduled for a packet of a macro user equipment UE from a macro cell to a FlexSF of a UL DL subframe configuration of a small cell when the specified traffic loading condition exists wherein the eNB is a macro eNB of the macro cell or a small eNB of the small cell follows as in block . The specified traffic loading condition can be determined from control information including a current downlink DL or uplink UL buffer status of the macro cell or the small cell a DL or UL cell spectral efficiency of the small cell or the macro cell on subframes a small cell capability to adapt UL DL TDD configurations an inter cell path gain between the macro cell and the small cell or a small cell capability to accept additional UEs. The FlexSF can include subframe or e.g. for legacy LTE UL DL configurations or a subframe configured to allow opposite transmission directions e.g. for UL DL configurations for other carrier types . The small eNB can include a low power node LPN a micro eNB a pico eNB a femto eNB a home eNB HeNB a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

In a configuration the operation of offloading the traffic of the macro cell can further include offloading uplink UL traffic when additional downlink DL subframes are requested by the small cell. In another configuration the operation of offloading the traffic of the macro cell can further include offloading downlink DL traffic when additional uplink UL subframes are requested by the small cell.

In an example the method can further include muting data transmission of a DL subframe scheduled at a substantially similar time as a flexible subframe FlexSF of the small cell. The muted data transmission can use a regular subframe or a pre configured almost blank subframe ABS . In another example the method can further include adapting the FlexSF of the UL DL subframe configuration of the small cell to the UL DL subframe configuration of the macro cell in a reduced UL DL adaption set. The FlexSF of the small cell can be scheduled at a substantially similar time as an uplink UL subframe of the macro cell and the FlexSF can be configured to vary as a DL subframe or an UL subframe based on the reduced UL DL adaption set.

In another configuration the method can further include Measuring node to node channel interference between small cells estimated from an uplink UL subframe of one small cell during a downlink DL subframe of another small cell collecting node to node channel interference measurements at the small cell from at least one another small cell determining interference management IM clusters based on the collected node to node channel interference measurements from small cells and configuring the small cells in each IM cluster with a same UL DL subframe configuration. The small cells generating interference on each other above a specified threshold can be grouped together in a same IM cluster or divided into isolated sub clusters based on traffic conditions and transmission direction.

In another example the method can further include reducing a transmission power at the small eNB on the FlexSF configured as the DL subframe. In another configuration the method can further include prior to offloading the traffic of the macro cell Receiving at the macro eNB macro UE MUE traffic requirements including an amount of data to be transmitted or a quality of service QoS parameter for the packet requesting channel quality measurements from the MUE for neighboring small cells receiving channel quality measurements at the macro eNB from the MUE for the neighboring small cells and determining the traffic of the macro cell to offload based on at least one of the MUE traffic requirements and the channel quality measurements from the MUE on the neighboring small cells.

In an example the processing module can be further operable to offload uplink UL traffic to the small node when a determination is made to increase a number of downlink DL subframes in the HetNet or the processing module can be further operable to offload DL traffic to the small node when a determination is made to increase a number of UL subframes in the HetNet. In another example the processing module can be further configured to monitor a specified traffic loading condition to trigger offloading of the traffic of the MUE to the small node trigger muting a data transmission of a downlink DL subframe scheduled at a substantially similar time as a flexible subframe FlexSF of the small cell trigger a request to the small node to use a UL DL adaption set trigger a request to the small node to perform cell clustering interference mitigation CCIM or trigger a request to the small node to reduce a transmission power on a FlexSF configured as the DL subframe at the small node.

In an example the transceiver module can be further configured to mute a data transmission of a DL subframe scheduled at a substantially similar time as a flexible subframe FlexSF of the small cell. The muted data transmission can use a regular subframe or an almost blank subframe ABS . The FlexSF can include subframe or e.g. for legacy LTE UL DL configurations or a subframe configured to allow opposite transmission directions e.g. for advanced UL DL configurations . In another example the transceiver module can be further configured to communicate with the small nodes via X2 signaling or backhaul link signaling via a wireless channel wired connection or an optical fiber connection. The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU or a central processing module CPM . The small node can include a low power node LPN a micro eNB a pico eNB a femto eNB a home eNB HeNB a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

In another example the transceiver module can be further configured to Receive MUE traffic requirements request channel quality measurements from the MUE e.g. UE on neighboring small cells and receive channel quality measurements of neighboring small cells from the MUE. The processing module can be further configured to determine the traffic to offload based on at least one of the channel quality measurements of neighboring small cells and MUE traffic requirements. The MUE traffic requirements can include an amount of data to be transmitted or a quality of service QoS parameter for the MUE packet.

In another configuration the processing module can be further configured to offload the traffic to the small node using a semi static mechanism or dynamic signaling. The semi static mechanism can use enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC with a large reference signal received power RSRP bias overload indication OI or high interference indication HII . The dynamic signaling can include physical or higher layer signaling indicating the offloading of the transmission.

The node device of the small node e.g. a small evolved Node B eNB can be configured to adapt uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD subframe configurations in a heterogeneous network HetNet . The node device of the small node can include a processing module and a transceiver module . The transceiver module can be configured to receive a macro UL DL configuration from a macro eNB. The processing module can be configured to generate a pico UL DL adaption set based on the macro UL DL configuration. The pico UL DL adaption set can include a subset of available UL DL configurations with a flexible subframe FlexSF . The FlexSF can be configured to vary as one of a downlink DL subframe or an UL subframe based on the pico UL DL adaption set. In an example each pico FlexSF of pico UL DL adaption set is scheduled at a substantially similar time as a macro uplink UL subframe of the macro UL DL configuration.

In an example transceiver module can be further configured to communicate with a macro user equipment MUE when traffic from the macro eNB is offloaded. The transceiver module can be further operable to receive UL traffic from the MUE to increase a DL packet throughput in the HetNet or the transceiver module can be further operable to transmit the DL traffic to the MUE to increase a UL packet throughput in the HetNet. The transceiver module can be further configured to reduce a transmission power on traffic of the FlexSF configured as the DL subframe. The FlexSF can include subframe or e.g. for legacy LTE UL DL configurations or a subframe configured to allow opposite transmission directions e.g. for advanced UL DL configurations .

In another example the node device can be further configured to use cell clustering interference mitigation CCIM . The transceiver module can be further configured to measure node to node channel interference between small cells communicate with at least one other small eNB and collect node to node channel interference measurements from the at least one other small eNB. The processing module can be further operable to determine interference mitigation IM cell clusters based on the collected node to node channel interference measurements from small cells and configure the small cells in each IM cell cluster with a same UL DL subframe configuration. The small cells generating interference on each other above a specified threshold can be grouped together in a same IM cluster and the specified threshold can be based on inter cell coupling loss or an estimated node to node pathloss. In an example the transceiver module can be further configured to communicate with the macro eNB and other small eNBs via X signaling or backhaul link signaling via a wireless channel wired connection or an optical fiber connection.

The UE e.g. wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The UE can be configured to communicate with the macro node and small node which communication can include a MUE packet. The transceiver module and the processing module can be used to receive send and or process the MUE packet.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

