---

title: Selectively directing media feeds to a set of target user equipments
abstract: In an embodiment, a given UE joins a local group communication session between a group of UEs, establishes itself as a director, obtains media feeds captured by media capturing UEs in the group of UEs and transmits a selected subset of the media feeds to a server for transmission to target UEs. In another embodiment, the server receives the media feeds itself and sends the media feeds to a director UE. The director UE indicates a selection of the subset of the media feeds to the server, and the server transmits the selected subset of media feeds to the target UEs. Accordingly, a local director UE can direct the subset to the target UEs by controlling which media feeds are sent to the server, or a remote director UE can direct the subset to the target UEs by controlling which media feeds the server sends to the target UEs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444564&OS=09444564&RS=09444564
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09444564
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 EV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

Performance within wireless communication systems can be bottlenecked over a physical layer or air interface and also over wired connections within backhaul portions of the systems.

In an embodiment a given UE joins a local group communication session between a group of UEs establishes itself as a director obtains media feeds captured by media capturing UEs in the group of UEs and transmits a selected subset of the media feeds to a server for transmission to target UEs. In another embodiment the server receives the media feeds itself and sends the media feeds to a director UE. The director UE indicates a selection of the subset of the media feeds to the server and the server transmits the selected subset of media feeds to the target UEs. Accordingly a local director UE can direct the subset to the target UEs by controlling which media feeds are sent to the server or a remote director UE can direct the subset to the target UEs by controlling which media feeds the server sends to the target UEs.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. .

As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

As used herein the term subset of selected media feeds as related to multiple video feeds may correspond to combining or assembling the images or video in a manner to produce one or more video output feeds including at least portions of the selected media feeds.

As used herein the term interlace interlaced or interlacing as related to multiple video feeds correspond to stitching or assembling the images or video in a manner to produce a video output feed including at least portions of the multiple video feeds to form for example a panoramic view composite image and the like.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

UEs and connect to the RAN at a portion served by a portion of the core network denoted as including a first packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN a home agent HA a foreign agent FA PGW SGW in LTE etc. . The first packet data network end point in turn connects to the Internet and through the Internet to a first application server and a routing unit . UEs and . . . N connect to the RAN at another portion of the core network denoted as including a second packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN FA HA etc. . Similar to the first packet data network end point the second packet data network end point in turn connects to the Internet and through the Internet to a second application server and the routing unit . The core networks and are coupled at least via the routing unit . UE connects directly to the Internet within the core network e.g. via a wired Ethernet connection via a WiFi hotspot or 802.11b connection etc. whereby WiFi access points or other Internet bridging mechanisms can be considered as an alternative access network to the RAN and through the Internet can then connect to any of the system components described above.

Referring to UEs and are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a desktop computer and UEs . . . N are illustrated as wireless tablets and or laptop PCs. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the multimedia client B corresponds to a client that executes on the UE to support communication sessions e.g. VoIP sessions PTT sessions PTX sessions etc. that are arbitrated by the application server or over the RAN whereby the RAN described above with respect to forms part of a WWAN. The multimedia client B is configured to support the communication sessions over a personal area network PAN and or WLAN via the WLAN radio and modem B.

Referring to the WWAN radio and modem B corresponds to hardware of the UE that is used to establish a wireless communication link with the RAN such as a wireless base station or cellular tower. In an example when the UE can establish a good connection with the application server the application server can be relied upon to partially or fully arbitrate the UE s communication sessions such that the multimedia client B can interact with the WWAN radio modem B to connect to the application server via the RAN to engage in the communication session.

The WLAN radio and modem B corresponds to hardware of the UE that is used to establish a wireless communication link directly with other local UEs to form a PAN e.g. via Bluetooth WiFi etc. or alternatively connect to other local UEs via a local access point AP e.g. a WLAN AP or router a WiFi hotspot etc. . In an example when the UE cannot establish an acceptable connection with the application server e.g. due to a poor physical layer and or backhaul connection the application server cannot be relied upon to fully arbitrate the UE s communication sessions. In this case the multimedia client B can attempt to support a given communication session at least partially via a PAN using WLAN protocols e.g. either in client only or arbitration mode .

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet or can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application servers or etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

It will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

After the negotiation of whereby the independent director UE is recognized as the director for the local group communication session the media capturing UEs . . . N begin or continue to capture media which is used to generate a plurality of media feeds . . . N . In an example the media feeds . . . N can include a video component and or optionally an audio component as well. After the capturing operation of each of the media capturing UEs . . . N transmits its respective media feed to the independent director UE over the PAN . In an example the transmission of can be a direct transmission from the media capturing UEs . . . N to the independent director UE or alternatively the transmission of one or more of the media feeds . . . N can hop across one or more intermediate P2P nodes e.g. other of the media capturing UE s or other UE s altogether before reaching the independent director UE.

Referring to the independent director UE receives the media feeds . . . N from the media capturing UEs . . . N and then presents each of the respective media feeds . . . N to its user . For example the presentation of can correspond to a representation of each of the media feeds . . . N as a relatively small video thumbnail in a display screen of the independent director UE. The independent director UE receives a user selection of a first subset of the media feeds . . . N at . For example the selection can correspond to the user left clicking or tapping on a particular media feed. The first subset of selected media feeds can potentially include more than one of the media feeds . . . N but will generally include less than all of the media feeds . . . N. The user will generally attempt to select the media feed s expected to be the most relevant to the target UEs . . . X.

After the first subset of the media feeds . . . N is selected at the independent director UE transmits the first subset of media feeds to the application server the application server transmits the first subset of media feeds to the target UEs . . . X and the target UEs . . . X present the first subset of media feeds on a set of media output devices e.g. display devices embedded within or coupled thereto .

During the group communication session the media capturing UEs . . . N continue to transmit media feeds . . . N to the independent director UE 545 and the independent director UE continues to present each of the respective media feeds . . . N to its user e.g. similar to and . At assume that independent director UE receives a user selection of a second subset different than the first subset of the media feeds . . . N. After the second subset of the media feeds . . . N is selected at the independent director UE transmits the second subset of media feeds to the application server the application server transmits the second subset of media feeds to the target UEs . . . X and the target UEs . . . X present the second subset of media feeds on the set of media output devices e.g. display devices embedded within or coupled thereto .

In an example with reference to the independent director UE may be broadcasting the sports game on behalf of a particular family or group of friends of a particular player playing the sports game. Thus the independent director UE may attempt to select the live video feed showing that particular player in action or alternatively the live video feed focusing on that particular player s team or alternatively the live video feed that is captured from a bleacher section reserved for that particular player s team fans so that the cheers and boos of the crowd in an associated audio feed are synchronized with the expected favoritism of the users of the target UEs . . . X. Alternatively the independent director UE may assume general neutrality for the users of the target UEs . . . X and may simply attempt to select the live video feed with the best angle depicting the action taking place in the game. For example media capturing UEs . . . are each focusing on different parts of a sports field C for the sports game and the independent director UE may attempt to switch between live video feeds as needed to follow the ball during the sports game.

As shown in the screenshot associated with and in the relatively small video thumbnails of the live video feeds and are shown in on the right hand portion of the independent director UE s display screen as selectable options for the subset and once live video feed is selected a larger broadcast feed section is configured to display the selected live video feed on the left hand portion of the display screen. Unlike the display screen at and of does not duplicate the live video feed from the broadcast feed section within the selectable feed section on the right hand side of the display screen. In it is assumed that live video feed is selected such that live video feed occupies the broadcast feed section of the independent director UE s display screen. The independent director UE transmits live video feed to the application server the application server transmits live video feed to the target UEs . . . X and the target UEs . . . X present live video feed . through of are not shown explicitly in but it will be readily appreciated that the independent director UE could select a different set of live video feeds later during the sports game e.g. the independent director UE could add live video feed to live video feed or could replace live video feed with live video feed etc. .

Referring to media capturing UEs . . . N e.g. whereby N 2 establish a local group communication session with each other by establishing a PAN i.e. a peer to peer P2P network . During the session set up procedure of the media capturing UEs . . . N negotiate with each other to designate a director of the local group communication session . In the embodiment of assume that the media capturing device is designated as the director in . In an example the negotiation of may select the media capturing UE as the director based on the media capturing UE having a connection e.g. a 3G or 4G connection a WiFI connection etc. via the RAN to the application server or based on the media capturing UE having the processing power to capture media present media from multiple media feeds and transmit a selected subset of media feeds to the application server at the same time and so on.

After the negotiation of whereby the media capturing UE is recognized as the director for the local group communication session the media capturing UEs . . . N begin or continue to capture media which is used to generate a plurality of media feeds . . . N and . After the capturing operation of and each of the media capturing UEs . . . N transmits its respective media feed to the media capturing UE over the PAN . As will be appreciated the media capturing UE has local access to its own captured media feed and thereby does not need to transmit media feed to itself. At this point through substantially correspond to through respectively of and as such will not be described further for the sake of convenience.

After and during the group communication session the media capturing UE continues to capture media feed and the media capturing UEs . . . N continue to capture and transmit media feeds . . . N to the media capturing UE . At this point through substantially correspond to through respectively of and as such will not be described further for the sake of convenience. Accordingly aside from the director function being allocated to a media capturing UE instead of an independent director UE or dedicated broadcast station operates similarly to .

Based on the negotiation procedure of UE X determines whether it is going to be the new director for the local group communication session at . If UE X determines that it is not going to be the new director for the local group communication session at the process advances to or of whereby media capturing UE remains as director although UE X could be added as a new media capturing UE among media capturing UEs . . . N if appropriate . Otherwise if UE X determines that it is not going to be the new director for the local group communication session at UE X transitions into director mode i.e. UE X prepares to receive and present media feeds from media capturing UEs . . . N for selective transmission to the application server and the media capturing UE transitions out of director mode . Accordingly the media capturing UEs . . . N continue to capture media feeds . . . N and the media capturing UEs . . . N transmit their respective media feeds to UE X instead of the media capturing UE and the media capturing UE transmits media feed to UE X . At this point through substantially correspond to through or through of except for being implemented in part at UE X instead of the media capturing UE .

While describes a director transition to a late joining UE i.e. UE X it is also possible that the director function can be transferred to a UE that has already been participating in the local group communication session. For example media capturing UE may initially be designated as director based on a strong network connection but this strong network connection may later deteriorate which can prompt another director negotiation resulting in a director transition. In another embodiment media capturing UE may initially be designated as director but the media capturing UE may later move out of range of the PAN so that the media capturing UE can no longer receive the media feeds from the other media capturing UEs . . . N. In this case the media capturing UEs . . . N could execute a new negotiation procedure to select a new director that remains in range of the group.

Further are described above with respect to embodiments whereby a director UE and a group of media capturing UEs are each connected to the same local group connection e.g. a PAN or P2P network . However in other embodiments of the invention that are described below with respect to the director UE can be remote from the media capturing UEs and the media capturing UEs can even be remote from each other.

Referring to the media capturing UEs . . . N begin or continue to capture media which is used to generate a plurality of media feeds . . . N A. In an example the media feeds . . . N can include a video component and or optionally an audio component as well. After the capturing operation of A each of the media capturing UEs . . . N transmits its respective media feed to the application server via the RAN A. As noted above certain groups of the media capturing UEs can designate a local UE for their media feed transmission e.g. another P2P node with a higher upload capability or network connection such that it is possible that fewer than N RAN connections are leveraged for conveying the N media feeds to the application server . The application server receives the media feeds . . . N and transmits the media feeds . . . N to the independent director UE A.

Referring to the independent director UE receives the media feeds . . . N from the application server via the RAN and then presents each of the respective media feeds . . . N to its user A. For example the presentation of A can correspond to a representation of each of the media feeds . . . N as a relatively small video thumbnail in a display screen of the independent director UE. The independent director UE receives a user selection of a first subset of the media feeds . . . N at A. For example the selection can correspond to the user left clicking or tapping on a particular media feed. The first subset of selected media feeds can potentially include more than one of the media feeds . . . N but will generally include less than all of the media feeds . . . N. The user will generally attempt to select the media feed s expected to be the most relevant to the target UEs . . . X.

After the first subset of the media feeds . . . N is selected at A the independent director UE transmits an indication of the first subset of the media feeds . . . N to the application server via the RAN A. The application server receives the indication of the first subset from the independent director UE and then transmits the first subset of media feeds to the target UEs . . . X based on the received indication A and the target UEs . . . X present the first subset of media feeds on a set of media output devices e.g. display devices embedded within or coupled thereto A.

During the group communication session the media capturing UEs . . . N continue to capture the media feeds . . . N A the media capturing UEs . . . N also continue to transmit media feeds . . . N to the application server via the RAN A and the application server continues to transmit the media feeds . . . N to the independent director UE A. Likewise the independent director UE continues to present each of the respective media feeds . . . N to its user A. At A assume that independent director UE receives a user selection of a second subset different than the first subset of the media feeds . . . N. After the second subset of the media feeds . . . N is selected at A the independent director UE transmits an indication of the second subset of the media feeds . . . N to the application server via the RAN A. The application server receives the indication of the second subset from the independent director UE and then transmits the second subset of media feeds to the target UEs . . . X based on the indication A and the target UEs . . . X present the second subset of media feeds on the set of media output devices e.g. display devices embedded within or coupled thereto A.

In an example with reference to the independent director UE may be broadcasting the sports game on behalf of a particular family or group of friends of a particular player playing the sports game. Thus the independent director UE may attempt to select the live video feed showing that particular player in action or alternatively the live video feed focusing on that particular player s team or alternatively the live video feed that is captured from a bleacher section reserved for that particular player s team fans so that the cheers and boos of the crowd in an associated audio feed are synchronized with the expected favoritism of the users of the target UEs . . . X. Alternatively the independent director UE may assume general neutrality for the users of the target UEs . . . X and may simply attempt to select the live video feed with the best angle depicting the action taking place in the game. For example media capturing UEs . . . are each focusing on different parts of a sports field D for the sports game and the independent director UE may attempt to switch between live video feeds as needed to follow the ball during the sports game.

As shown in the screenshot associated with A and A in the relatively small video thumbnails of the live video feeds and are shown in on the right hand portion of the independent director UE s display screen as selectable options for the subset and once live video feed is selected a larger broadcast feed section is configured to display the selected live video feed on the left hand portion of the display screen. Unlike the display screen at A and A of does not duplicate the live video feed from the broadcast feed section within the selectable feed section on the right hand side of the display screen. In it is assumed that live video feed is selected such that live video feed occupies the broadcast feed section of the independent director UE s display screen. The independent director UE transmits an indication that the live video has been selected to the application server via the RAN A and the application server transmits live video feed to the target UEs . . . X A and the target UEs . . . X present live video feed A. A through A of are not shown explicitly in but it will be readily appreciated that the independent director UE could select a different set of live video feeds at a later part of the local group communication session e.g. the independent director UE could add live video feed to live video feed or could replace live video feed with live video feed etc. .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

