---

title: Key assembly for an electronic device having a connected keycap
abstract: The present application provides a key assembly for use in an electronic device. The key assembly comprises a plurality of dome switches and one or more single-piece keycaps. Each keycap has a plurality of key portions separated by deforming portions. The key assembly further comprises a plurality of actuators for activating the dome switches. Each actuator has a stem portion and an enlarged rigid blocking portion. The key assembly also comprises one or more rigid blocking members disposed between the blocking portion of the actuators and the keycaps and in close proximity to the blocking portion of the actuators. The blocking members form a barrier to limit a rotational movement of the actuators away from the dome switches.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08698018&OS=08698018&RS=08698018
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08698018
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120419
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 605 535 entitled Key Assembly for an Electronic Device Having a Connected Keycap and filed on Oct. 26 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to input devices and more particularly to key assemblies for handheld electronic devices.

Keypad and keyboard designs in handheld electronic devices attempt to balance several design constraints which often include the ability to provide illuminated keys a visual separation between keys a tactile separation between keys tactile feedback to device users in response to a key press and providing such features within a relatively thin device profile.

Modern keypad and keyboard designs often utilize dome switches rather than mechanical hard closing switches to provide a thinner device profile. Depending on the keypad or keyboard design which is used the use of dome switches may result in keys which are wobbly and unstable and more prone to damage.

The present disclosure provides a key assembly for use in an electronic device. The key assembly comprises a plurality of dome switches. The key assembly further comprises one or more single piece keycaps. Each keycap has a plurality of key portions separated by deforming portions. Each key portion is associated with a separate one of the plurality of dome switches. The key assembly further comprises a plurality of actuators for activating the dome switches. Each actuator has a stem portion and an enlarged rigid blocking portion. The blocking portion is oriented on a side of the actuator which is proximate the dome switches and the stem portion is oriented on a side of the actuator which is proximate the keycaps. The key assembly further comprises one or more rigid blocking members disposed between the blocking portion of the actuators and the keycaps and in close proximity to the blocking portion of the actuators. The one or more blocking members receive the stem portion of the one or more actuators. The blocking members form a barrier to limit a rotational movement of the actuators away from the dome switches.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides an electronic device. The electronic device comprises a controller for controlling the operation of the device and a key assembly. The key assembly comprises a plurality of dome switches. The key assembly further comprises one or more single piece keycaps. Each keycap has a plurality of key portions separated by deforming portions. Each key portion is associated with a separate one of the plurality of dome switches. The key assembly further comprises a plurality of actuators for activating the dome switches. Each actuator has a stem portion and an enlarged rigid blocking portion. The blocking portion is oriented on a side of the actuator which is proximate the dome switches and the stem portion is oriented on a side of the actuator which is proximate the keycaps. The key assembly further comprises one or more rigid blocking members disposed between the blocking portion of the actuators and the keycaps and in close proximity to the blocking portion of the actuators. The one or more blocking members receive the stem portion of the one or more actuators. The blocking members form a barrier to limit a rotational movement of the actuators away from the dome switches.

The teachings of the present disclosure relate generally to portable electronic devices such as mobile e.g. wireless communication devices such as pagers cellular phones Global Positioning System GPS navigation devices and other satellite navigation devices smartphones wireless organizers and wireless personal digital assistants PDA . The portable electronic devices could be a device without wireless communication capabilities such as a PDA electronic gaming device digital photograph album or picture frame digital camera or digital video recorder such as a camcorder. The portable electronic device may comprise a touchscreen display as well as a keypad. These examples are intended to be non limiting. It is also possible that the teachings of the present disclosure could be applied to electronic devices other than handheld electronic devices such as notebook computers.

Reference is first made to which illustrate a key assembly for use in an electronic device in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In example features have been illustrated by reference numerals. In some figures where there are multiple instances of the same feature in order to enhance the readability of the figures only a subset of these features have been numbered. For example in there exists a plurality of actuators . In order to increase the readability of this drawing only two such actuators have been labelled.

The key assembly comprises a plurality of single piece keycaps formed of a rigid material. In the embodiment shown each keycap is associated with and identifies a complete row of keyboard characters. The keyboard may be a QWERTY QWERTZ AZERTY or Dvorak keyboard. In some embodiments the key assembly described herein may be used for other non keyboard types of keys. For example the key assembly may identify function keys associated with a host electronic device.

By way of example in embodiments in which the keycap represents characters of a keyboard and where the keyboard is a QWERTY keyboard a first keycap may be associated with and identify the complete row of keyboard characters which includes the characters Q W E R T Y U I O and P . Similarly a second keycap may be associated with and identify the complete row of keyboard characters which includes the characters A S D F G H J K and L . A third keycap may be associated with and identify the complete row of keyboard characters which includes the characters Z X C V B N M and in some embodiments . A fourth keycap may be associated with and identify the space character. In the embodiment shown the fourth keycap also identifies the zero 0 character.

The characters associated with the keycaps include letters that are used to write in a given language. For example the characters may include letters of the English alphabet. In some embodiments the characters are an alphanumeric character set that includes letters and numbers.

The characters associated with the keycaps may be identified on the keycaps in a number of ways. For example in some embodiments the characters are identified by a visual identifier such as in mould labelling IML of the keycap . In other embodiments the characters are identified by in mould decoration IMD of the keycap . It will however be appreciated that other suitable labelling techniques may also be used to identify the characters associated with the keycap .

Each keycap has a plurality of key portions aligned in a single row along the keycap . In some embodiments each key portion is associated with and identifies at least one keyboard character or function key. In some embodiments each key portion which identifies a keyboard character is associated with and identifies a single keyboard character. In other embodiments a single key portion may be associated with multiple characters. For example in some embodiments a key portion may be associated with two characters. For example a first key portion may be associated with the Q and W characters a second key portion associated with the E and R and so on. In such embodiments the handheld electronic device in which the key assembly is used may have a predictive text engine. In response to the depression of a key portion the predictive text engine may be used to predict a desired character from the plurality of characters associated with that key portion .

As noted previously in at least some embodiments the keycaps may include one or more key portions which are associated with specific functions of the host electronic device in which the key assembly operates. These functions may be defined by software associated with the host electronic device. For example in the embodiment of the second keycap identifies and is associated with the delete function See for example . When the delete function is activated a most recently input character may be deleted.

By way of further example in the shown embodiment the third keycap identifies and is associated with an Alt or alternative function and a Return function. The alternative function may be used to invoke an alternative character or function associated with one of the key portions of the keycaps . The Return function may be used to input a carriage return.

In the shown embodiment the fourth keycap identifies and is associated with a Caps function and a Sym or symbol function. The Caps function may be used to capitalize a character on one of the keycaps . The symbol function may be an additional character function which permits a user to input non standard characters. In some embodiments when the additional character function is activated a display screen associated with the host electronic device displays a plurality of non standard characters. The non standard characters are characters which may not have a specific reserved key portion associated therewith. For example the non standard characters may include the or characters. When the non standard characters are displayed on the display screen a user may select one of the non standard characters by interacting with an input mechanism associated with the host electronic device. It will be appreciated that other functions may be associated with and identified on one or more of the key portions of the keycaps .

The keycaps in at least some embodiments have an externally facing side . In the embodiment shown the externally facing side is a smooth side having no spaces or gaps across its length.

In other embodiments not shown the externally facing side may have visual and or tactile features disposed thereon. These tactile features may in some embodiments include an externally protruding portion or an indentation for assisting the user in navigating the key assembly . The tactile features may provide tactile feedback to a user to assist that user in locating a desired key portion . That is the tactile features may be used to assist a user in determining the boundaries of a key portion .

Each keycap also includes a plurality of deforming portions which separate adjacent key portions . In the shown embodiment of each key portion is separated by respective mechanically deforming portions . The deforming portions act as a hinge to permit key portions to swing or otherwise move relative to an adjacent key portion .

In some embodiments the deforming portions which may be seen in and of the keycap have a cross section that is thinner than a cross section of the key portions of the keycap . In such embodiments the mechanically deforming portions may be defined by grooves in the keycap. In some embodiments the grooves may be formed on one side of the keycap . In other embodiments the grooves may be formed on opposed sides of the keycap . In some embodiments the mechanically deforming portions have a cross section that is approximately 0.25 mm in thickness although other thicknesses may be suitable to fit the application.

In some embodiments the grooves may be provided on the externally facing side of the keycap to provide the dual functions of mechanical deformation to allow for key presses of the respective key portions of the keycap and visual or tactile separation between key portions of the keycap for key identification by device users.

In other embodiments the grooves are provided on an internally facing side of the keycap to provide mechanical deformation to allow for key presses of the respective key portions of the keycap .

In some embodiments where the grooves are provided on the internally facing side the externally facing side does not have grooves to define the limits of the key portions of the keycap . In such embodiments the externally facing side of the deforming portion of the keycap may have a surface which is level and or continuous with the surface of the externally facing side of the key portion which is adjacent to that deforming portion . That is the externally facing side may have no grooves at the deforming portion . In such embodiments the externally facing side may have no sharp transitions in gradient. Avoiding such sharp gradient transitions on the externally facing side such as grooves may in some embodiments be used to prevent the accumulation of debris in the key assembly .

In embodiments where the externally facing side does not have grooves visual and or tactile indications of the individual key portions of the keycap may be provided by other means for example through the use of other tactile features on the key portions of the keycap as described above.

The key portions and the deforming portions of the keycap are formed of a common material. In some embodiments the key portions and the deforming portions are formed of a rigid plastic such as a polycarbonate although it is appreciated that other materials with similar properties may be appropriate.

The key assembly also includes a plurality of dome switches . Each key portion of the keycap is associated with a separate one of the dome switches and . The dome switches may be included on a dome sheet which mechanically connects the dome switches together to provide stability to the dome switches and to hold the dome switches in place within the key assembly .

In some embodiments each dome switch comprises a polyethylene terephthalate PET film which overlays a collapsible metal dome having a nickel plating over a gold plating on a flexible printed circuit board PCB . As will be explained in greater detail below when a key portion is pressed the dome of the respective dome switch collapses thereby connecting conductive platings on an adjacent printed circuit board PCB and and completing a connection therebetween. The PCB includes an electrical connector not shown which may be used to connect the PCB to a controller of a host electronic device. The electrical connector may in some embodiments be a ribbon connector. The controller of the host electronic device receives an input signal in response to the connection of the conductive platings caused by actuation of the dome switch . The controller recognizes a corresponding input in response to the received input signal. In other embodiments other dome switch constructions could be used.

In some embodiments the dome sheet may act as a light guide to permit light generated on one side of the dome sheet to travel to another side of the dome sheet . In such embodiments the dome sheet may be constructed at least in part of a material that is transparent or in some embodiments translucent. For example the dome sheet may have portions which are constructed of a clear plastic and or silicone.

The key assembly further comprises a plurality of actuators for activating the dome switches . Each actuator actuates a different one of the dome switches . Each actuator is associated with a different one of the key portions . In the embodiment shown each key portion is associated with a single actuator . The actuator has a first side which engages the associated key portion and a second side which engages a dome switch . In some embodiments the actuator directly engages its associated key portion for example through direct contact. In other embodiments the key assembly may include a further layer not shown between the actuator and the key portions and the key portion engages the actuator through this further layer. The actuator engages the associated key portion in that a force applied to the externally facing side of the key portion is transferred in whole or in part to the actuator .

In some embodiments the first side of the actuator is proportionally shaped to the internally facing side of the associated key portion in order to provide proper support. The keycap may in some embodiments be connected to the first side of the actuators using an adhesive.

The actuators each include a movable portion which permits the actuators to move towards and away from the dome switches to close or open the dome switches in response to a force being applied to the externally facing side of the key portion of the keycap . The movable portion is constructed of a malleable material such as silicone. In some embodiments not shown the movable portions of adjacent actuators are connected together in order to provide stability to the actuators . The movable portions may be connected together along a row of the key assembly . That is each movable portion may be connected to the movable portion of an adjacent actuator . In some embodiments the movable portions for all of the actuators may be connected together. In such embodiments each movable portion may be connected to each adjacent movable portion thus forming an actuator sheet. In other embodiments such as the embodiment illustrated in the movable portions are not connected together.

In some embodiments the actuators may also act as a light guide to permit light generated on one side of the actuators to travel to another side of the actuators . For example in some embodiments the key assembly includes the PCB which includes one or more light generating elements such as a light emitting diode LED . The light passes through holes defined by the dome sheet or through the dome sheet itself if the dome sheet serves the dual role of an integrated dome sheet and light guide and the light is then passed by the actuators to the keycaps thus allowing the keycaps to be illuminated.

Where the actuators act as a light guide the actuators may be constructed of a material that is transparent or in some embodiments translucent. For example the actuators may be constructed of a clear plastic and or silicone.

The actuators may also have a blocking portion See for example . The blocking portion is formed of a rigid material. For example in some embodiments the blocking portion may be comprised of a rigid plastic which may be formed for example by plastic injection. That is the blocking portion of the actuators may be formed of a rigid polycarbonate using injection moulding.

The actuator is oriented in the key assembly in such a way that the blocking portion of the actuator is proximate the dome switches and a stem portion is proximate the keycaps . That is the blocking portion is oriented in close proximity to the dome switches and the stem portion is oriented in close proximity to the keycaps . The stem portion is connected at one end either directly or indirectly to the keycap . In the embodiment shown the stem portion is indirectly connected to the keycap . That is the stem portion is connected to the movable portion which is connected to the keycap . In other embodiments the stem portion may be connected directly to the keycap .

The blocking portion may be attached to the movable portion in a number of ways. By way of example in some embodiments the blocking portion may be co moulded with the movable portion of the actuators . In other embodiments the blocking portion may be attached to the movable portion using an adhesive. Other methods of connecting the blocking portion to the movable portion are also possible.

As illustrated in in some embodiments the movable portion may define a recess in which the stem portion of the actuator may be received. Although other materials with similar properties may be suitable the stem portion is constructed of the same rigid material as the blocking portion and extends upwardly away from the dome switches from the center of the blocking portion . The recess of the movable portion of the actuator and the stem portion may be correspondingly sized so that the stem portion fits tightly within the recess of the movable portion . This stem portion serves to give further stability to the movable portion .

Referring now to the key assembly further includes one or more blocking members . In the embodiments shown the blocking member is a flat sheet. The blocking member is disposed within the key assembly at a layer which is between the blocking portions of the actuators and the keycaps . The blocking member is located in close proximity to the blocking portions of the actuators .

The blocking members define one or more openings which receive the actuators . Each actuator is received in a different one of the openings of the blocking members . In the embodiment shown the openings are rectangular in shape. The openings have a shape that corresponds to the shape of the stem portion of the actuator which moves therethrough. The blocking member is comprised of a rigid material such as for example a metal. The stem portion is narrower than the enlarged rigid blocking portion of the actuator and is received by and protrudes through the opening of the blocking members .

When the key assembly is assembled the blocking member is sandwiched within the actuators . The blocking portions of the actuators each have a first side which is larger in at least one dimension than the opening of the blocking member . That is the first side of the blocking portions of the actuators has a length which is larger than a length of the opening . The length is the dimension of the first side of the actuators or opening that is in the same direction as the length of the elongate keycap .

In some embodiments the blocking member may be co moulded with the movable portion of the actuator . For example the openings in the blocking member may have the movable portion disposed therein. Thus the blocking member may support the movable portion . Such support may be provided by connecting the movable portion to the blocking member for example through co moulding or an adhesive.

The movable portion of the actuator is constructed of a movable stretchable or otherwise deformable material. That is the movable portion of the actuator is constructed of a material which allows for the movement of the actuators in order to depress their associated dome switches . The movable portion of the actuator serves to provide additional stability to the key assembly. It will however be appreciated that in at least some embodiments the actuators do not contain the movable portions . In such embodiments the stem of the actuators may directly contact the key portions .

The first side of the blocking portion has a blocking surface . When no external forces are applied to the keycap for example by a user the blocking surface is disposed in close proximity to an interior side of the blocking member . When the key assembly is assembled the blocking portion extends underneath the blocking member on each side of the opening so that the blocking surface is in close proximity to the interior side of the blocking member.

When a balanced or even force is applied to the key portion associated with the actuator the actuator is moved towards its associated dome switch . More particularly the movable portion of the actuator permits the actuator to move towards its associated dome switch . A balanced or even force is a force which is balanced or substantially balanced across the center of the key portion .

An unbalanced or uneven force is a force which is not balanced across the center of the key portion . For example an unbalanced force may occur when a force is applied to a single end of the key portion . This may occur for example when an adjacent key portion contained on the same keycap is depressed. Since the keycap is rigid a force applied to one of the key portions creates an unbalanced force on adjacent key portions . Ordinarily in embodiments without blocking features this blocking force would cause the side of an adjacent key portion which is furthest from the applied force to move upwardly away from the dome switches . By way of example in a QWERTY keyboard such as the keyboard shown in an application of force to the Q key portion causes an unbalanced force on the adjacent W key portion . This unbalanced force causes the W key portion to attempt to rotate. More particularly without blocking features the side of the W key portion which is farthest from the Q key portion may become raised.

In some embodiments the blocking portion of the actuator interferes with the blocking member to prevent the upward movement of a key portion due to the application of a force to an adjacent key portion . That is the blocking member together with the blocking portion of the actuators helps to prevent or reduce key twisting and upward movement of a key portion due to the application of an unbalanced force to that key portion . When an unbalanced force is applied to a key portion for example due to the depression of an adjacent key portion the actuator also experiences an unbalanced force. This unbalanced force is a torque which causes the actuator to attempt to rotate. When this happens an end of the blocking surface of the blocking portion interferes with the interior side of the blocking member . The end of the blocking surface that interferes with the interior side of the blocking member will be the end that is opposite the end of the actuator on which the force is applied. This interference prevents the upward movement of the actuator . That is the blocking members form a barrier to limit the rotational movement of the actuators away from the dome switches.

The blocking portion of the actuators may have an interior side which contacts the dome switches either directly or indirectly. The interior side may in some embodiments include a dome contact area which may be shaped and sized for contacting the dome switches . In the embodiment illustrated the dome contact area is a circular area. Shaping and sizing the dome contact area for contacting the dome switches may be useful to prevent the actuator from inadvertently contacting other features in the key assembly when the actuator is depressed. However it will be appreciated that in some embodiments the dome contact area may not be correspondingly shaped or sized.

In some embodiments at least some of the key portions have a transparent portion or window for transmitting light from the light generating elements therethrough. In some embodiments each of the key portions have a transparent portion for transmitting light therethrough to provide backlighting of the key portions. In at least some embodiments the keycap is formed of a rigid polycarbonate. In some embodiments the keycap is formed of a transparent material such as a light diffusing polycarbonate which is painted with a desired colour or colours and laser etched to remove a portion of the paint and expose the transparent material for transmitting light therethrough. In some embodiments the key portions are painted a first colour which will provide the backlight colour and then painted a second colour which for example matches a colour of the housing of the host electronic device . The second colour is then laser etched in predefined shapes to expose the first colour. The predefined shape may be used to provide a visual representation which informs the device user of a function of the respective key portions . The predefined shape is typically different for each key portion . The first colour may vary between key portions . When assembled into the host electronic device activation of the LEDs on the PCB backlights the respective key portions so as to illuminate the laser etched shape in the respective background colour e.g. the first colour .

In the embodiment illustrated the key assembly also includes a light shield . The light shield is an opaque layer which is disposed between the keycaps and the actuators and serves to prevent light from escaping in undesirable locations. That is the light shield focuses any light on the key portions of the keycap .

The key assembly may also include a back plate . The back plate is disposed on the side of the dome sheet that opposes the side on which the actuators are located. The back plate may be but is not necessarily located in a layer of the key assembly which is adjacent to the PCB . An adhesive layer may be disposed between the PCB and the back plate . The adhesive layer connects the PCB to the back plate .

The back plate includes an edge which extends upwardly in the direction of the dome sheet . Thus the back plate acts as a housing for the dome sheet and in some embodiments the actuators . Accordingly the key assembly may include a number of layers including for example one or more keycaps a light shield one or more actuator sheets which may be comprised of actuators a blocking member one or more dome sheets a PCB and a back plate . These layers may be connected in a variety of ways including for example adhesives co moulding the use of physical connectors or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments at least some of the layers of the key assembly may be connected to the key assembly by way of one or more connectors or frets . In the embodiment shown the connectors are comprised of elongate bars which are disposed between adjacent keycaps . In the shown embodiment the connectors act as separating members to space adjacent keycaps . Such spacers may serve a number of functions including for example spacing the keycaps in order to accommodate a user s fingers and prevent the accidental depression of an adjacent keycap. The connectors may also serve to act as a visual separator of adjacent keycaps . In such cases the connectors may be a different colour than the keycaps . In the embodiment shown the connectors hold the blocking member in spaced relation to the dome switches .

In the shown embodiment the connectors have one or more protrusions thereon. The protrusions extend downwardly towards the dome sheet and may be received by corresponding holes defined by the actuator sheet and in some embodiments corresponding holes defined in a light shield layer the dome sheet the PCB and or the back plate . It will be appreciated that some of these layers may not be included in some embodiments or that other layers apart from those discussed herein may be included in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the protrusion on the connectors may have an enlarged end which is larger than at least one of the holes through which the protrusion is received. Once the key assembly is assembled the enlarged end holds the protrusions in the holes. That is the enlarged ends prevent the protrusions from escaping the holes.

In a further example regarding the connection of various layers to the key assembly in some embodiments the keycaps may be connected to the key assembly using an adhesive which bonds the keycaps to their respective actuators . In some embodiments the keycap may include hook features disposed at opposing ends of the keycap . These hook features may be received by corresponding catch features not shown on the key assembly .

While the embodiment shown illustrates actuators that are not connected in an actuator sheet in other embodiments two or more actuators may be connected together for example at the movable portions . Accordingly the actuators may be provided on an actuator sheet which includes a plurality of movable portions which connect the actuators together to provide stability and hold the actuators in place within the key assembly . In some embodiments the actuator sheet connects all of the actuators . It will be appreciated however that in other embodiments the actuators or a subset thereof may be connected in other ways. For example in some embodiments a plurality of actuator sheets may be used. In such embodiments the actuator sheets may connect the actuators for example in a row wise or column wise manner. In embodiments in which row wise connections are used each actuator sheet may connect only the actuators in a given row of the key assembly . That is the actuators which are associated with the key portions on the first keycap may be connected together and actuators which are associated with the key portions on the second keycap may be connected together in a second actuator sheet. Similarly where column wise connections are used each actuator sheet may connect the actuators in a given column of the key assembly . Accordingly in at least some embodiments the number of actuator sheets may correspond to the number of keycaps .

The key assembly typically includes a mounting subassembly not shown for mounting the key assembly to the host electronic device for example the handheld electronic device described below.

While portions of the key assembly are shown as separate elements some of these elements may be combined in other embodiments or formed together using co moulding in other embodiments. For example in some embodiments the blocking portion of the actuator may be co moulded with the movable portion of the actuators . It is also possible that some of the elements described as a single element may be implemented using multiple elements in other embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that while the embodiment discussed herein discussed the use of dome switches other switch types may also be used.

Reference is now made to which illustrates the handheld electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The handheld electronic device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the handheld electronic device in various embodiments the device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The handheld electronic device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the device . The internal components of the device are constructed on or connected via a printed circuit board PCB which may be the PCB . The handheld electronic device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen a keypad constructed using a key assembly in accordance with the present disclosure such as the key assembly of possibly other input devices not shown flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. The device may comprise a touchscreen display in some embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input side connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display screen . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the handheld electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which handheld electronic device is intended to operate.

The handheld electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The handheld electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software and software applications . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

In some embodiments the handheld electronic device also includes a removable memory module or card typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access is typically associated with a subscriber or user of the handheld electronic device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the handheld electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The handheld electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the handheld electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the handheld electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the handheld electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the handheld electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the handheld electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the handheld electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the handheld electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their handheld electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the handheld electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The handheld electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the handheld electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the handheld electronic device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the handheld electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the handheld electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the handheld electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the handheld electronic device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the handheld electronic device .

The handheld electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email message messaging application and output to the display . A user of the handheld electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the handheld electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the handheld electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

