---

title: Methods and apparatus to navigate electronic documents
abstract: Example methods and apparatus to navigate electronic documents are disclosed. A disclosed example method involves first and second display portions by a demarcation line, to display first and second content in those display portions, based on receiving an input corresponding to a display coordinate. In an example, the method also includes overlaying an image of the first content portion on the first content portion, and allowing the image of the first content portion to scroll only in directions parallel to demarcation line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09013513&OS=09013513&RS=09013513
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09013513
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120412
---
This is a U.S. national phase application under 35 USC 371 of International Application No. PCT US2012 033298 filed on Apr. 12 2012 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to electronic devices and more particularly to methods and apparatus to navigate electronic documents.

Documents reports and other types of electronic documents offer large amounts of information for viewing via electronic devices such as computers. Such electronic documents can be in any of a number of file formats such as the portable document format .pdf Microsoft Office PowerPoint format .ppt Microsoft Office Excel spread sheet format .xls Microsoft Office Word document format .doc hypertext markup language format .htm .html Joint Photographic Experts Group format .jpeg .jpg Portable Network Graphics format .png Tagged Image File Format .tiff etc. Large screen sizes of laptop computers and or desktop computers allow users to relatively easily view and interact with such electronic documents even when such documents have large quantities of contents. Some computer applications offer a freeze panes function e.g. the Microsoft Office Excel spreadsheet application or a split screen function e.g. the Microsoft Office Word word processor application to facilitate viewing documents having layouts larger than is simultaneously displayable on a computer screen. Other applications allow users to zoom in on content by double clicking or double tapping on the displayed content on the display.

Although the following discloses example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture including among other components software executed on hardware it should be noted that such methods apparatus and articles of manufacture are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly while the following describes example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture persons having ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the examples provided are not the only way to implement such methods apparatus and articles of manufacture.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments disclosed herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that example embodiments disclosed herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure example embodiments disclosed herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of example embodiments disclosed herein.

Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture are disclosed herein in connection with electronic mobile devices which may be any mobile communication device mobile computing device or any other element entity device or service capable of communicating wirelessly. Mobile devices also referred to as terminals wireless terminals mobile stations communication stations or user equipment UE may include mobile smart phones e.g. BlackBerry smart phones wireless personal digital assistants PDA tablets e.g. the BlackBerry Playbook tablet device laptop notebook netbook computers with or without wireless adapters etc.

Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein may be used to facilitate viewing interaction with and or editing electronic documents displayed on electronic devices such as mobile devices having relatively smaller screens than available on larger desktop or laptop computers. Although examples disclosed herein are described in connection with mobile devices such examples may also be implemented in connection with desktop computers and or laptop computers.

Some examples disclosed herein facilitate viewing scroll intensive electronic documents such as spreadsheets or other types of documents having information spread out over a large area e.g. word processor documents portable document format pdf documents drawings images etc. created on large page or canvas sizes . Such scroll intensive documents often cause users to rely on or employ multiple direction vertical and or horizontal scrolling to navigate around and view the information in the document. When a user desires to compare first information appearing in a first portion of the document to second information appearing in a second distal portion of the document the user either zooms out on the document so that the first and second portions are visible on a device screen or the user scrolls repeatedly between the first portion and the second distal portion to compare the information. Zooming out of the document may be unacceptable when text font becomes too small to read and thus repeated back and forth scrolling is often used. However such repeated back and forth scrolling can cause a user to quickly lose context of the separately located information being scrolled between since the user relies on her his memory to remember the organization and meaning of the content at the different locations.

Challenges associated with viewing such scroll intensive documents become even more apparent when working on smaller displays e.g. 4 inch 7 inch or 10 inch displays such as displays of tablet devices or other mobile devices as the content in a scroll intensive document typically has an area larger than the display of the device. Some examples disclosed herein facilitate navigating scroll intensive documents by allowing users to directionally lock certain content portions i.e. allow certain content portions to scroll only in certain directions such as parallel to a line of demarcation while allowing other content portions to scroll in multiple directions. For example techniques disclosed herein allow a user to specify one or more content portions e.g. one or more of a left hand side portion a top portion a right hand side portion and or a bottom portion of content of an electronic document that are to be directionally locked. In this manner the user can compare first information contained in the directionally locked content portion s of the content with second information contained at a distal location in the scrollable or moveable portion s of the electronic document by scrolling the scrollable or moveable portion s relative to the directionally locked portion s until the first and second information are simultaneously displayed viewable on an electronic device screen. Such example techniques are useable with many types of documents including legacy document reports that cannot be easily modified re formatted or reorganized for viewing on small screens such as tablet device or mobile device screens. In this manner examples disclosed herein increase navigability usability and viewability of large page size documents on devices such as tablet computers or other mobile devices having relatively smaller screen sizes. This in turn saves on expenses and time for users and organizations that would otherwise be needed to re write re organize re build or re format existing electronic documents. In addition examples disclosed herein are useable to enable users and organizations to more quickly adopt use of smaller screen devices e.g. screens of tablet devices or mobile devices because existing or legacy electronic documents can be readily viewed and used without needing to re write re organize re build or re format such existing electronic documents before using them on the smaller screen devices.

Some examples disclosed herein to navigate content such as content in scroll intensive documents displayed on a display involve the method of dividing the display into first and second display portions along a demarcation line dividing the content into first and second content portions displaying at least part of the first content portion in the first display portion displaying at least part of the second content portion in the second display potion after receiving a first scrolling input controlling scrolling of the first content portion to allow scrolling only in directions parallel to the demarcation line and controlling scrolling of the second portion to allow scrolling in multiple directions. In some examples instead of controlling scrolling of the second portion to allow scrolling in any direction the scrolling of the second portion is controlled to allow scrolling only in directions parallel to the demarcation line and in directions orthogonal to the demarcation line. In some examples the method includes receiving a divide input to divide the display. In some examples the divide input is a tap on the display by a user and received through a touch screen display or a click input by a user and received through a user navigation pointer input device. The first content portion can correspond to content portions at one or more of to the left to the right above and or below the display coordinate corresponding to the divide input. In some examples the display coordinate corresponding to the divide input is defined independent of features of the content. In such some examples the display coordinate is not defined based on for example cells of a spreadsheet or other feature demarcations e.g. text graphics rows columns page breaks section breaks etc. native to an electronic document or based on graphical cues or graphical control elements e.g. a document split bar native to an application rendering the electronic document.

In some examples the content is generated by one or more applications and the methods disclosed herein for example dividing a display into display portions dividing the content into content portions and controlling scrolling are performed outside of the application s functions and are implemented in one or more operating system functions. In this manner techniques or features to divide a display into display portions can be application independent such that they can be used across different applications. In such examples an operating system function is employed to divide a display into first and second display portions based on a divide input by a user and received through an input device such as for example a touch screen display . In other examples methods for dividing a display into display portions are implemented in add on or plug in modules that can be added to different applications. In yet other examples methods for dividing a display into display portions can be implemented directly in applications.

Some examples disclosed herein facilitate viewing contents of border intensive electronic documents using feature recognition and auto zoom techniques. Such border intensive electronic documents can be pages or sheets of presentations e.g. PowerPoint presentations or other documents in which border portions or margins consume portions of the pages such that displaying a page in its entirety on a device screen results in the contents of the page being smaller than desired for comfortable or legible viewing. That is when an application uses known techniques to display a page of an electronic document having relatively large size borders or margins without content e.g. blank space or with content that is deemed of relatively little or no interest e.g. non essential content non interest content non significant content etc. to a user is filled with such borders or margins are displayed on a device screen regardless of their little or no significance to a user. That is the application displays the margins or borders even though the margins or borders are of little or no interest relative to other more interesting content concentrated toward a center of the displayed page. In known techniques for displaying such margins or borders the relatively more interesting content located at or about a central portion of the page is displayed at a smaller size e.g. zoomed out so that the application can fit the entire page including content or blank space at border locations on a device screen. To view a larger rendering e.g. a zoomed in rendering of the content of interest in connection with such known document display techniques a user manually zooms in on and center the content of interest on the device screen. When the user turns to e.g. advances to a different page the user again manually zooms in on and center the content of interest in the turned to page to render a larger view of the content of interest without displaying the margins or borders that are of relatively less or no interest to the user.

Challenges associated with viewing such border intensive documents become even more apparent when working on smaller displays e.g. 7 inch or 10 inch displays such as displays of tablet devices or other mobile devices. Examples disclosed herein facilitate maximizing views of relatively more interesting contents of border intensive electronic documents without using up display space for displaying borders or margins and any content therein that is of relatively less or no interest for viewing by a user on for example smaller displays of mobile devices. Some disclosed examples analyze one or more pages of an electronic document to identify features display elements or common parts e.g. headers sub headers footers unused blank space that are deemed of little or no value e.g. have relatively less or no meaning or relevance compared to other more meaningful content on a page for displaying. In some examples a user is provided with a selectable option to suppress displaying of the detected features display elements or common parts and to zoom in on content deemed to be of relatively more interest for display and viewing by the user. Such example auto zoom techniques are useable with many types of documents including legacy documents that cannot be easily modified or reorganized for viewing on small displays such as tablet device or mobile device displays. In this manner examples disclosed herein increase navigability usability and viewability of border intensive electronic documents on devices such as tablet computers or other mobile devices having relatively smaller display sizes.

Some examples disclosed herein to auto zoom and selectively display content of border intensive documents involve identifying first and second content portions in a multiple page document. In such examples the first content portions contain first content not to be displayed and the second content portions contain second content to be displayed. During displaying of each page of the multiple page document such examples automatically zoom into the page to enlarge the second content of the page to fill a viewable display area and to exclude the first content from the viewable display area. In some examples the identifying of the first content portions involves detecting features in different pages of the multiple page document that match one another. In some examples the features include at least one of text or graphics corresponding to a template used to create the multiple page document. In some examples the identifying of the first content portions involves detecting blank spaces occurring at the same on page locations e.g. a location at one or more content portions of a page in different pages of the multiple page document. In some examples the first content portions are margins of the multi page document.

In some examples the content is generated by one or more applications and the methods disclosed herein for example selectively displaying content of border intensive documents are performed outside of the application s functions and are implemented in one or more operating system functions. In this manner techniques or features to identify and display selective content of border intensive documents can be application independent such that they can be used across different applications. In such examples an operating system function is employed to identify the first and second content portions and to zoom into the page to display the second content portions while excluding the first content portions from being displayed. The operating system function can be similarly used across different applications to selectively display content of relatively more interest while excluding or suppressing the display of other content of relatively little or no interest. In other examples methods for selectively zooming in on and display content across different applications are implemented in add on or plug in modules that can be added to different applications. In yet other examples methods for selectively zooming in on and displaying content can be implemented directly in applications.

Examples disclosed herein are useable to enable users and organizations to continue using existing electronic documents e.g. legacy documents or reports on smaller display devices e.g. displays of tablet devices or mobile devices without needing to re write re organize re build or re format such existing electronic documents. This in turn saves on expenses and time for such users and organizations. In addition examples disclosed herein are useable to enable users and organizations to more quickly adopt use of smaller display devices e.g. displays of tablet devices or mobile devices because existing or legacy electronic documents can be readily viewed and used without needing to re write re organize re build or re format such existing electronic documents before using them on the smaller display devices.

In the illustrated example the mobile device associates the demarcation point with a display coordinate e.g. an X Y coordinate that specifies demarcation lines and at which directionally locked content portion s e.g. the top side content portion and the left side content portion are adjacent to scrollable portion s e.g. the content portion of the scroll intensive electronic document . The mobile device of the illustrated example is not constrained to determining the display coordinate associated with the demarcation point based on features e.g. graphical elements spreadsheet cells text graphics rows columns page breaks section breaks etc. of the electronic document or based on graphical cues or graphical control elements e.g. a document split bar of an application rendering the electronic document. Instead the mobile device of the illustrated example determines the display coordinate of the demarcation point based on where the user taps on the display or where the user selects that the demarcation point should be on the display. In this manner the user is not bound to features of the electronic document to select a location of the demarcation point and the examples disclosed herein can be used with any type of electronic document even if some electronic documents do not contain features e.g. spreadsheet cells rows columns etc. that facilitate directionally locking some content portions relative to other scrollable content portions. In the illustrated example of shaded portions and phantom lines are shown for illustration and ease of discussion to distinguish the top side content portion and the left side content portion from the scrollable content portion . However these shaded portions and phantom lines need not be shown in implementations of the lock techniques.

In the illustrated example to divide the display into display portions for displaying content portions and select which of the content portions e.g. the top side content portion and the left side content portion that are to be directionally locked the mobile device displays a lock menu in response to the user selecting the demarcation point . The lock menu of the illustrated example provides numerous user selectable options to specify which of the content portions are to remain directionally locked. Example content portions shown in the lock menu include a left lock L LOCK content portion which directionally locks a content portion to the left of the demarcation point such as the left side content portion a right lock R LOCK content portion which directionally locks a content portion to the right of the demarcation point a top lock T LOCK content portion which directionally locks a content portion to the top of the demarcation point a bottom lock B LOCK content portion which directionally locks a content portion to the bottom of the demarcation point a top left lock T L LOCK content portion which directionally locks content portions to the top and left of the demarcation point a bottom left lock B L LOCK content portion which directionally locks content portions to the bottom and left of the demarcation point a top right lock T R LOCK content portion which directionally locks content portions to the top and right of the demarcation point and a bottom right lock B R LOCK content portion which directionally locks content portions to the top and left of the demarcation point .

In the illustrated example of a user selects the top left lock T L LOCK option in the lock menu to allow the top side content portion to scroll only in directions parallel to demarcation line and to allow the left side content portion to scroll only in directions parallel to demarcation line . In this manner the top side content portion and the left side content portion remain directionally locked while the user scrolls through the content portion . In some examples to disable the top side content portion and the left side content portion from being directionally locked a user opens the lock menu and de selects the previously selected lock option. In other examples to disable the top side content portion and the left side content portion from being directionally locked a user taps at or about demarcation point on the display.

In some examples to keep the top side content portion and the left side content portion directionally locked while the content portion is scrolled the mobile device copies the top side content portion and the left side content portion to make respectively a top side content portion image and left side content portion image . In some examples the top side and left side content portion images are then overlaid on respective ones of the top side content portion and the left side content portion so that the images are displayed in the display portions. For example to scroll the content portion in upward and or downward directions as generally indicated by arrow while keeping the top side content portion directionally locked a top side content portion image is generated copying the column labels displayed in the top side content portion and the top side content portion image is overlaid on the top side content portion to create a directionally locked content portion image. In this manner the top side content portion image remains directionally locked while the user navigates through the content portion to bring the top side content portion image adjacent to other information in the content portion that the user desires to compare with or view in connection with the information in the top side content portion image . in an example to scroll the content portion in left and or right directions as generally indicated by arrow while keeping the left side content portion directionally locked a left side content portion image is generated copying the row labels displayed in the left side content portion and the left side content portion image is overlaid on the left side content portion to create a directionally content portion image. In this manner the left side content portion image remains directionally locked while the user navigates through the content portion to bring the left side content portion image adjacent to other information in the content portion that the user desires to compare with or view in connection with the information in the left side content portion image .

Instead of generating images and overlaying the images on the content portions other examples display in the display portions logically separate content portions including one or more directionally locked content portions e.g. the top side content portion and the left side content portion and one or more scrollable content portions e.g. the scrollable content portion . In this manner each display portion displays content portions e.g. the directionally locked top side content portion and left side content portion of an electronic document instead of displaying an image representative of that electronic document portion. In such examples one or more logical display boundaries are determined based on the demarcation point to allow movement of content portion s that are scrollable in all directions e.g. the scrollable content portion relative to directionally locked content portion s e.g. the top side content portion and the left side content portion .

In an example when the user scrolls the content portion in upward and or downward directions as indicated generally by arrow the left side content portion or left side content portion image displaying row labels scrolls upward and or downward concurrently with the content portion . That is the left side content portion or its image is directionally locked so that it is allowed to scroll only in directions upward and or downward directions concurrently with upward downward e.g. vertical scrolling of the content portion . In some examples when the left side content portion or its image is scrolling concurrently with content portion the left side content portion or its image is scrolling at substantially the same displacement as the scrolling of content portion .

Similarly when the user scrolls the content portion in right and or left directions as indicated generally by arrow the top side content portion or the top side content portion image displaying column labels scrolls to the right and or left concurrently with the content portion . That is the top side content portion or its image is directionally locked so that it is allowed to scroll only in left and or right directions concurrently with left right e.g. horizontal scrolling of the content portion . In some examples when the top side content portion or its image is scrolling concurrently with content portion the top side content portion or its image is scrolling at substantially the same displacement as the scrolling of content portion .

In an example when the user scrolls top side content portion or top side content portion image in a right or left direction content portion concurrently scrolls in the same right or left direction but left side content portion or left side content portion image does not concurrently scroll in the right or left direction. In another example when the user scrolls top side content portion or the top side content portion image in an upward or downward direction content portion and left side content portion or left side content portion image do not concurrently scroll in the upward or downward direction.

In an example when the user scrolls left side content portion or left side content portion image in an upward or downward direction content portion concurrently scrolls in the same upward or downward direction but top side content portion or top side content portion image does not concurrently scroll in the upward or downward direction. In another example when the user scrolls left side content portion or left side content portion image in a right or left direction content portion and top side content portion or top side content portion image do not concurrently scroll in the right or left direction.

In examples in which a user scrolls diagonally the top side content portion or its image and the left side content portion or its image remain displayed at their respective display locations on the mobile device while the column labels scroll horizontally and the row labels scroll vertically concurrently with the user controlled scrolling of the scrollable content portion . In this manner the column labels and the row labels are displayed in corresponding alignment with respective information in the content portion .

To keep the top side content portion or its image and the left side content portion or its image at their respective top and left display locations while scrolling the column labels and the row labels the top side content portion image includes the entire length of the contents e.g. the column labels of the top side content portion and the left side content portion image includes the entire length of the contents e.g. the row labels of the left side content portion .

In some examples the mobile device is configured to automatically detect and display information using an auto zoom mode as described in connection with when a document is opened. In other examples the mobile device is configured to prompt a user with a message including a selectable option to use the auto zoom mode as described in connection with . For example a user may set a device or application configuration profile to automatically perform the above described auto zoom methods when displaying documents or to prompt the user with a user confirmation request message prior to performing the above described detection and zoom methods. In yet other examples the mobile device may be configured to provide a menu to a user offering a selectable option to specify when to perform the auto zoom methods described in connection with . In this manner the user can manually control when to use the auto zoom mode. In yet other examples the auto zoom methods may be invoked in response to a user double tapping on the display of the mobile device . In some examples to exit the auto zoom mode a user de selects an auto zoom option via a menu item and or uses any other suitable gesture configured to end the auto zoom mode.

In some examples the mobile device determines that it cannot detect features on one or more pages to designate as non display portions e.g. non display content portions and . In such examples the mobile device determines that it cannot differentiate between portions of a page or pages that it deems not relevant for display from portions deemed relatively more relevant for display. In such examples the mobile device presents a notification e.g. a visual or audible notification informing a user that an auto zoom mode cannot be used with a current document.

In some examples when the mobile device is displaying a page in an auto zoom mode as shown in the mobile device also displays a visual cue indicating that it is operating in an auto zoom mode. In the illustrated examples of an example visual indicator is a double lined border around the content portions and . In this manner a user can detect when the mobile device is using the auto zoom mode. In other examples additional or alternative visual cues may be used such as a colored line border a dashed line border or a blinking border.

Turning in detail to the apparatus of the illustrated example is provided with the example processor to control and or manage operations of the mobile device of . In the illustrated example the processor receives requests to open and display electronic documents e.g. the electronic documents of of on the mobile device . In addition the processor makes decisions and facilitates arbitrates information exchanges between elements of the apparatus .

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the application interface to access and or communicate with one or more application s to directionally lock content portion s for documents rendered by the application s and or to auto zoom and selectively display content of border intensive documents rendered by the application s . In some examples the application interface is implemented using OS level processes or functions or is an application programming interface API that allows OS level processes or functions to access and or communicate with the application s . In some examples the application interface is used in a software module that is configured to operate as an add on or plug in module that can be added to the application s .

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the input device to receive inputs that are input by a user using an input device e.g. a touch screen display a mouse pointer a touch pad buttons a keyboard a microphone etc. . In the illustrated example the input device is implemented using a touch screen display. However in other examples the input device may additionally or alternatively be implemented using other types of input device interfaces e.g. a mouse interface a touch pad interface a button interface a keyboard interface a voice interface etc. .

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the display e.g. a display of the mobile device of that is configured to provide a graphical user interface and display electronic documents e.g. the electronic documents of of . In the illustrated example the display is a liquid crystal display. Additionally or alternatively the display may be made of another type of display technologies such as e paper displays cathode ray tube CRT displays light emitting diode LED displays etc.

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the image generator to generate images of electronic document views e.g. views or pages of the electronic documents of of . In the illustrated example the apparatus uses images of electronic document views for displaying in the display of the mobile device in accordance with examples disclosed herein to facilitate user navigation of electronic documents. In some examples the apparatus uses images of document views to display directionally locked content portions of an electronic document so that a user can navigate scrollable content portions of the electronic document to view scrollable portions of the document relative to directionally locked portions of the document as shown in . In some examples the apparatus uses image versions of pages to detect border elements of an electronic document e.g. the borders of the example border intensive electronic document of FIGS. and and display zoomed contents on the mobile device that include elements of interest to a user while excluding other contents that are deemed non essential or of relatively less relevance for display. In some examples the image generator also generates draws the border shown located around the content portions and in .

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the demarcator to divide a display into display portions and display these display portions at least part of content portions some of the content portions being directionally locked. Examples of directionally locked content portions are shown in as top side content portion left side content portion bottom side content portion top side content portion left side content portion and right side content portion . In examples disclosed herein such directionally locked content portions enable users to navigate scrollable portions of documents to view contents thereof relative to contents of directionally locked content portions of the documents.

In some examples for setting directionally locked content portions in a view of an electronic document e.g. the scroll intensive electronic document of FIGS. and as discussed above in connection with the demarcator determines a display coordinate based on a demarcation point e.g. the demarcation points and or from the input device defining a point on a display of the mobile device at which a user indicated that the display is to be divided into display portions in which content portions of the content are to be displayed. The demarcator of the illustrated examples uses such display coordinates to create demarcation lines separating a user specified directionally locked content portion from a scrollable content portion of an electronic document e.g. the electronic document of FIGS. and .

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the lock enforcer to directionally lock user specified content portions of an electronic document e.g. the scroll intensive electronic document of FIGS. and as discussed above in connection with . The lock enforcer of the illustrated example receives boundary descriptor s from the demarcator specifying demarcation lines separating directionally locked content portions from scrollable content portions of an electronic document view. In this manner the lock enforcer can use the boundary descriptor s to enforce directionally locking the specified content portion s .

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the content detector to identify content portions of one or more document pages having information e.g. display elements to be excluded from display to facilitate displaying zoomed in views of document contents deemed of relatively more interest for display to a user. In the illustrated example the content detector is configured to distinguish content that is to be displayed from other content e.g. content along borders of pages that is to be excluded from display. In some examples content portions along borders are considered non essential information or information deemed to be of relatively less interest to users for viewing than other relatively more interesting information located at an inner content portion of a document page. Examples discussed above in connection with the border intensive electronic document of FIGS. and show borders e.g. the borders of forming the non display content portions and of that are excluded from being displayed via the mobile device so that relatively more interesting information located at inner content portions of the pages can be displayed as enlarged views e.g. zoomed in views .

In the illustrated example the content detector is provided with image recognition capabilities blank space detection capabilities pattern matching capabilities and text recognition capabilities. In some examples the content detector stores a library of known images that are specified as display elements that can be excluded from displayed document views. In such some examples the content detector can use its image recognition capabilities to detect elements in documents that are stored in such a library of known images to identify border regions that are not to be displayed in document views. In some examples the content detector uses its blank space detection capabilities to detect blank space in border content portions that do not have any information to be displayed. In such some examples the blank spaces are excluded from being displayed. In some examples the content detector uses its pattern matching capabilities to identify display elements that are repeated on borders of multiple pages of an electronic document to determine that such repeated or redundant elements can be excluded from displayed views of the document. For example such repeated display elements may correspond to template borders that offer little or no meaning to the substantive contents of a document. In some examples the content detector is provided with a library of known text that is specified as information that can be excluded from displayed document views. In such some examples the content detector can use its text recognition capabilities to detect elements in document borders that are stored in such a library of known text to identify content portions that are not to be displayed in document views. Additionally or alternatively the content detector can be provided with other capabilities suitable for identifying image elements along a page borders that are deemed of relatively little interest or no interest for displaying.

In the illustrated example the apparatus is provided with the zoom controller to set zoom levels for enlarging views of document pages to be displayed. To display automatically zoomed contents of an electronic document e.g. the border intensive electronic document of FIGS. and as discussed above in connection with the zoom controller receives document coordinates or boundary descriptors from the content detector . The zoom controller uses such document coordinates or boundary descriptors to identify content portion s of page s to be excluded from display. The zoom controller enlarges or zooms in on portions of the document page s having information e.g. display elements that are to be displayed in document views to facilitate viewing document contents deemed of relatively more interest for users. In some examples the zoom controller also controls zoom levels of scroll intensive electronic documents e.g. the scroll intensive electronic document of FIGS. and having directionally locked content portions e.g. the directionally locked content portions and of and scrollable content portions e.g. the content portion of . In such examples the zoom controller controls the zoom levels for the directionally locked content portions e.g. the directionally locked content portions and of and the scrollable content portions e.g. the content portion of .

In the illustrated example to store data and or machine readable or computer readable instructions the apparatus is provided with the memory . The memory may be a mass storage memory magnetic or optical memory a non volatile integrated circuit memory or a volatile memory. That is the memory may be any tangible medium such as a solid state memory a magnetic memory a DVD a CD a BluRay disk etc.

Referring to the mobile device includes a number of components such as a main processor e.g. similar or identical to the processor of that is directly or indirectly connected to the other components and controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In the illustrated example of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . In some examples the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE which is the next evolutionary phase of UMTS and CDMA2000 networks to a common air interface standard. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the example implementations described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with the mobile device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one exemplary implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 MOBITEX and DATATAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a persistent memory e.g. a non volatile memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM card or RUIM is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without the SIM card the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM card RUIM into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM card RUIM includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM card RUIM is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM card RUIM can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM card RUIM is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM card RUIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the persistent memory .

The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the persistent memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the persistent memory of the mobile device or some other suitable storage element in the mobile device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the mobile device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the mobile device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the persistent memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power .

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile device also includes a connect module and an IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile device is authorized to interface with.

The connect module includes a set of APIs that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system e.g. from an IT policy server of a host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the mobile device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

The IT policy module can include a parser not shown which can be used by the applications to read the IT policy rules. In some cases another module or application can provide the parser. Grouped IT policy rules described in more detail below are retrieved as byte streams which are then sent recursively in a sense into the parser to determine the values of each IT policy rule defined within the grouped IT policy rule. In at least some embodiments the IT policy module can determine which applications e.g. document readers and or editors to view edit the electronic documents of of are affected by the IT policy data and send a notification to only those applications. In either of these cases for applications that aren t running at the time of the notification the applications can call the parser or the IT policy module when they are executed to determine if there are any relevant IT policy rules in the newly received IT policy data.

All applications that support rules in the IT Policy are coded to know the type of data to expect. For example the value that is set for the WEP User Name IT policy rule is known to be a string therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as a string. As another example the setting for the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy rule is known to be an integer and therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as such.

After the IT policy rules have been applied to the applicable applications or configuration files the IT policy module sends an acknowledgement back to the host system to indicate that the IT policy data was received and successfully applied.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities productivity applications etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA a Bluetooth communication standard and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message web page download media content etc. will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include input devices such as a touch screen display mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Additionally or alternatively the example methods of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals.

Alternatively some or all of the example methods of may be implemented using any combination s of application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Also some or all of the example methods of may be implemented manually or as any combination s of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further although the example methods of are described with reference to the flow diagrams of other methods of implementing the methods of may be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example methods of may be performed sequentially and or in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended. Thus a claim using at least as the transition term in its preamble may include elements in addition to those expressly recited in the claim.

In some examples instructions to perform the example methods of are implemented in one or more operating system functions. In this manner the example methods of are application independent such that they can be used across different applications that interface with the operating system function s . In other examples instructions to perform the example methods of are implemented in add on or plug in modules that can be added to or installed in different applications. In yet other examples instructions to perform the example methods of are implemented directly in applications.

Now turning in detail to initially the display displays a document block such as the scroll intensive electronic document of . The input device receives one or more divide inputs by a user block such as one or more of the demarcation points and or . The demarcator determines one or more display coordinate s block corresponding to the divide inputs received at block . In the illustrated example the demarcator uses the display coordinate s to determine demarcation lines dividing the display into display portions in which content portions are displayed e.g. the top side content portion the left side content portion of the content portions and of FIG. the content portion of the content portion of the content portion of and the content portion and of .

The display displays the lock menu of block . The input device receives a lock option selected by a user block specifying one or more content portions to be directionally locked relative to the demarcation point s received at block . The image generator generates one or more image s e.g. the top side content portion image and the left side content portion image of of content portions based on the one or more display coordinate s determined at block and the lock option block . The display then overlays the one or more image s on the content portion s block as for example described above in connection with .

Alternatively instead of generating images and overlaying the images on the user specified directionally locked content portions at operations and other examples define logically separate content portions including one or more user specified directionally locked content portions e.g. the top side content portion and the left side content portion of and one or more scrollable content portions e.g. the scrollable content portion of . In this manner each logically separate content portion displays its portion e.g. the top side content portion the left side content portion and the scrollable content portion of an electronic document instead of displaying an image representative of that electronic document portion. In such examples one or more logical demarcation lines are determined based on the demarcation point to allow movement of scrollable content portion s e.g. the scrollable content portion relative to directionally locked content portion s e.g. the top side content portion and the left side content portion .

In the illustrated example of the lock enforcer maintains the directionally locked content portion s or images of the content portion s in some examples in place during user scrolling of the scrollable portion s and or during zoom operations block . For example while a user scrolls through the content portion of the lock enforcer maintains the top side content portion or its image and the left side content portion or its image directionally locked at their respective display locations. In the illustrated example of because the column labels extend beyond the display of the mobile device the lock enforcer allows the top side content portion or its image to scroll horizontally so that the column labels move correspondingly with horizontal movements of the scrollable content portion as discussed above in connection with . Also in the illustrated example of because the row labels extend beyond the display of the mobile device the lock enforcer allows the left side content portion or its image to scroll vertically so that the row labels move correspondingly with vertical movements of the scrollable content portion as discussed above in connection with . In addition for any zooming in or zooming out operations the lock enforcer maintains the directionally locked portions e.g. the top side content portion or its image and the left side content portion or its image at their respective display locations while allowing their zoom level to be adjusted corresponding to zoom levels of the content portion .

The lock enforcer determines whether it should disable directionally locking content portions block . For example a user may specify that directionally locking of content portions should be turned off to allow scrolling the entire document e.g. the scroll intensive electronic document . If directionally locking should not be disabled block control returns to block at which the lock enforcer continues to enforce directionally locking of user selected content portions. If directionally locking should be disabled block the display removes the overlay of one or more image s from the directionally locked content portion s block .

The application interface determines whether it should perform directionally locking for a same application or a different application block . For example the application interface may be an operating system level interface that facilitates performing the example method of across different applications. In such examples the application interface may receive a request from the same application that rendered the scroll intensive electronic document to directionally lock content portion s again or from another application to directionally lock content portion s for a document rendered by that application. If requested to perform directionally locking for the same or another application block control returns to block . In examples in which another application is requesting directionally locking the example method of operates to overlay one or more images onto directionally locked content portion s of content displayed by the other application and prevent movement of the one or more image s relative to a scrollable portion of the content of the other application. If the application interface determines that it should not perform the directionally locking method again block the example method of ends.

Turning now to initially the content detector locates displayable features of a document block . In the illustrated example the content detector detects all displayable features e.g. features at border or margin areas and features toward centers of pages of the pages of the border intensive electronic document of . The content detector determines ones of the displayable features to exclude from displaying block . In the illustrated example the content detector uses one or more of image recognition capabilities blank space detection capabilities pattern matching capabilities text recognition capabilities and or any other suitable capability to identify displayable features deemed of relatively little or no interest for displaying. For example in the illustrated example of FIGS. and the content detector determines that displayable features located at the borders of and forming the non display content portions and of should be excluded from display because they are deemed as having little or no meaningfulness relative to contents located within the content portions and of .

The content detector determines the content portions for display for each of the pages block . In the illustrated example the content detector determines that the content portion should be displayed when the page is active that the content portion should be displayed when the page is active and that the content portion should be displayed when the page is active. The zoom controller determines a zoom level to render the content portions and for each page block . For example if each of the content portions and has a different dimension the zoom controller determines a different zoom level for each of the content portions and . If all the content portions and have the same dimensions the zoom controller determines that the same zoom level should be used for all of the content portions and .

The zoom controller enlarges an active one of the content portions and based on its respective zoom level block . For the active one of the pages the display displays a corresponding one of the enlarged content portions and block to fill a display area on the display of the mobile device and to exclude a corresponding one of the non display content portions and from the display area. If the application interface determines that another page e.g. another one of the pages should be displayed block control returns to block to display a corresponding one of the enlarged content portions and for the next page to be displayed. If another page is not to be displayed block the application interface determines whether to end an auto zoom mode block . In some examples a user may exit the auto zoom mode by de selecting the auto zoom mode feature via a graphical user interface menu. If the auto zoom mode is not to be ended block control returns to block . Otherwise if the auto zoom mode is to be ended block control advances to block .

The application interface determines whether it should perform the auto zoom method for a same application or a different application block . For example the application interface may be an operating system level interface that facilitates performing the example method of across different applications. In such examples the application interface may receive a request from the same application that rendered the border intensive electronic document to auto zoom on contents of interest again for another document or from another application to auto zoom on contents of interest for a document rendered by that application. If requested to perform the auto zoom method for the same or another application block control returns to block . In examples in which another application is requesting the auto zoom method the example method of operates to detect content for display and content to exclude from being displayed for a document of the other application. If the application interface determines that it should not perform the auto zoom method again block the example method of ends.

Turning to in some examples the mobile device is configured to divide its display into display portions based on one or more user defined demarcation lines and directionally certain content portions displayed in the display portions. In these examples the demarcation lines need not necessarily follow vertical and or horizontal demarcations. In this manner users may define demarcation lines that are skewed or angled relative to a vertical alignment and or a horizontal alignment. Such examples are useful for example when displaying scanned documents that appear skewed such that text therein does not follow vertical and or horizontal alignments. Such examples may also be useful in other applications such as picture viewers editors.

As shown in to define a demarcation line the mobile device receives two divide inputs and from a user corresponding to respective display coordinates. In the illustrated example the divide inputs are multi touch gesture inputs from a touch sensitive display on which a user places two fingers at display locations indicated by the two divide inputs and . As shown in based on the two divide inputs and the mobile device defines a demarcation line passing through the two divide inputs and to divide the display into two parts and divide the content into content portions and .

As shown in the content portions and are only allowed to scroll in directions parallel to the demarcation line . In the illustrated example scrolling of the content portion is directionally locked. In the illustrated example scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line also results in scrolling of the content portion . Similarly scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line also results in scrolling of the content portion . However the content portion does not scroll when there is scrolling of the content portion that is perpendicular to the demarcation line . Similarly the content portion does not scroll when there is scrolling of the content portion that is perpendicular to the demarcation line .

In the illustrated example to define another demarcation line the mobile device receives another two divide inputs and e.g. multi touch gesture inputs from a user corresponding to respective display coordinates as shown in . As shown in based on the two divide inputs and the mobile device divides the display along another demarcation line passing through the two divide inputs and . In the illustrated example of the demarcation lines and intersect to form four display portions in which at least part of content portions and are displayed and directionally locked. In other examples using multiple demarcation lines the demarcation lines need not be perpendicular and need not intersect. In the illustrated example scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion and scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion . Also in the illustrated example scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion and scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion . Also in the illustrated example scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line also results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion and scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line also results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion . Also in the illustrated example scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion and scrolling of the content portion parallel to the demarcation line results in corresponding scrolling of the content portion .

More generally in the illustrated example scrolling of one of the content portions and parallel to one of the demarcation lines and also results in a corresponding scrolling of an adjacent one of the content portions and that is separated by a respective one of the demarcation lines and while scrolling perpendicular to one of the demarcation lines and results in no scrolling of an adjacent one of the content portions and that is separated by a respective one of the demarcation lines and . In some examples scrolling of a particular one of the content portions and can optionally be locked from moving in response to scrolling of others of the content portions and . For example the content portion may be locked from moving when a user scrolls the contents displayed in the content portions or . In some examples rules defining how directionally locked content portions e.g. the content portions and in the illustrated example of can be extended when more than two demarcation lines e.g. the demarcation lines and in the illustrated example of are used to divide the display into multiple display portions.

While creation of a demarcation line at a angle not parallel to a display border is shown using a multi touch gesture other approaches are anticipated such as establishing a parallel demarcation line using the afore mentioned tap gesture and then using a drag gesture to modify the location of either or both endpoints of the demarcation line.

In the illustrated example of the mobile device receives a divide input from a user representing a free formed line that the user generated by dragging a finger on the display of the mobile device . In the illustrated example the mobile device uses the free formed line to define a demarcation line to divide a display into display portions and display in one or more of those display portions directionally locked content portions and . In the illustrated example of the content portion is directionally locked but scrolls in horizontal directions in response to horizontal scrolling of the content portion . Although each of shows only one demarcation line and in other examples multiple free form demarcation lines may be defined based on user divide input to divide a display two or more display portions to display in one or more of those display portions directionally locked content portions of content.

Although certain methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

