---

title: Metamaterial composition comprising frequency-selective-surface resonant element disposed on/in a dielectric flake, methods, and applications
abstract: Infrared metamaterial arrays containing Au elements immersed in a medium of benzocyclobutene (BCB) were fabricated and selectively etched to produce small square flakes with edge dimensions of approximately 20 μm. Two unit-cell designs were fabricated: one employed crossed-dipole elements while the other utilized square-loop elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09182519&OS=09182519&RS=09182519
owner: University of Central Florida Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09182519
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This application is related to and derives priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 527 876 filed on 26 Aug. 2011 and entitled Metamaterial Flake based Apparatus Methods and Applications the subject matter of which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The research underlying the embodiments described herein was funded by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development program at Sandia National Laboratories. Sandia is a multiprogram laboratory operated by Sandia Corporation a Lockheed Martin Company for the United States Department of Energy s National Nuclear Security Administration under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to the field of engineered materials particularly to metamaterials metamaterial compositions methods for their making and applications thereof and more particularly to metamaterial flake compositions methods for their making and applications thereof.

Metamaterials are a class of engineered materials in which the structure rather than the composition dominates the electromagnetic response. With resonance attributed to sub wavelength geometry traditional frequency selective surface FSS filter designs may be considered a subcategory of metamaterials.

Metamaterial structures are often fabricated on semiconductor wafers however this is not conducive for applications involving large area and or non planar surfaces such as vehicles and buildings for example. Although the fabrication of flexible metamaterial arrays on polyimide substrates and on silicon nitride membranes has been reported there are recognized shortcomings with this solution. They include difficulties in transporting them and applying them to surfaces. They may need to be transported in large rolls. They may need to be applied in a labor intensive manner so as not to stretch the dimensions of the array or tear the material.

The inventors have recognized the advantages and benefits of a metamaterial based coating that could cover non planar surface areas as well as methods for making such metamaterial based coatings. The inventors believe that it would be particularly advantageous to provide a paint comprising metamaterial based flakes containing frequency selective surface FSS type resonant elements e.g. frequency selective surface FSS type resonant elements dispersed in an IR transparent binder.

An embodiment of the invention is a metamaterial. In an exemplary non limiting aspect a metamaterial composition includes a dielectric material in the form of a flake including at least one resonant element disposed on or in the dielectric material. According to various non limiting aspects the metamaterial may be characterized by one or more of the following 

An embodiment of the invention is a method for fabricating a metamaterial. In an exemplary non limiting aspect the method includes the steps of forming a release layer over a substrate forming a blanket metamaterial layer over the release layer comprising at least one resonant conductor element supported by a dielectric material layer patterning the blanket metamaterial layer to provide a metamaterial flake comprising the at least one resonant conductor element supported by a patterned dielectric material layer and treating the release layer to release the metamaterial flake from the substrate. According to various non limiting aspects the method may be characterized by one or more of the following features or steps 

The disclosed non limiting and exemplary embodiments and aspects of the invention describe the design fabrication and testing of metamaterial based flake compositions containing multiple unit cells of resonant elements. Such particles may be dispersed in an IR transparent binder making them suitable for implementation in a paint. A coating such as this would contain a random placement of flakes since they could be disposed on either side and in any rotational orientation. As such the unit cell design of the metamaterial will advantageously be symmetric about the center plane of the flakes and have spectral characteristics that are invariant to in plane rotations.

The design and modeling of the embodied metamaterial flakes began with a unit cell or a single resonant element . Our simulations assumed a periodic and infinite lattice of unit cells while the fabricated result was a collection of finite periodic arrays of unit cell elements. The resonant behavior of such arrays were not expected be critically impacted by the finite extent of passive arrays for situations where on the order of 10 by 10 unit cells are contiguous. The measured strength of the resonance however was affected due to the diminished proportion of flakes in the observation area. Thus the spectral features of an infinite array of unit cells served as the baseline for comparison with the measured response of the collected flakes.

A first illustrative metamaterial flake is an 8 by 8 array of crossed dipoles with a unit cell periodicity of 1.8 m and a dipole length of 1.4 m as shown in . The crossed dipole flake was designed to have a fundamental resonance when the dipole length is approximately 2 in an immersion medium of benzocyclobutene BCB . This design incorporated a guard ring ring of dielectric without elements on the perimeter of each flake. The purpose of the guard ring was to create a final structure with the elements fully encased in BCB.

A second metamaterial flake is an 8 by 8 array of square loop elements with a periodicity of 2 m and edges 1.7 m long as shown in . The fundamental resonance of the square loop occurs when the perimeter is approximately in the immersion medium. The square loop design generally has a broader resonance as compared to the crossed dipole design due to the decreased inter element spacing. The square loop design is symmetric about a Cr ground plane with a 0.5 m resonant cavity of BCB and contained no guard ring. The ground plane was made thick enough such that the wavelengths of interest were significantly attenuated and thus nearly completely reflected . In the resonant cavity the BCB layer represents a quarter wave layer in the material thus enhancing the resonance of the array via thin film interference. The overlayer of BCB served merely to protect the elements from processing and thus was made as thin as our process would allow.

Modeling was carried out in Ansoft High Frequency Structure Simulator HFSS . HFSS computes the electrical behavior of high frequency structures using finite element analysis. The results of HFSS assume an infinite array of unit cells and plane wave illumination at a single angle of incidence. The modeling relied on user input geometry and frequency dependent optical material properties derived from ellipsometry which greatly increases confidence in the simulation since optical properties and film thickness can be measured directly after each fabrication step and input into the simulation. This is especially critical in the infrared due to the finite conductivity of metals. For the crossed dipole design the unit cell was simulated on a Si wafer its environment after collection . The unit cell simulation for the square loop design only required the upper half of the flake as the Cr ground plane was assumed to be a perfect electrical conductor.

The flakes were fabricated on silicon wafers then etched to define the flakes out of the stack of thin films on the wafer and stripped off of the silicon wafer. A sacrificial layer such as silicon dioxide or a polymer layer lies continuously beneath the flake stacks. When the flake stack is immersed in a solvent that dissolves the sacrificial layer the flakes float off of the silicon wafer and float freely in the solvent. This solvent may be a buffered oxide etch for a silicon dioxide sacrificial layer or it may be an organic solvent for a polymer sacrificial layer. The sacrificial layer is selected so that lithographic processing of the metamaterial elements does not chemically attack the sacrificial layer and the solvent that removes the sacrificial layer does not chemically attack the flakes themselves. schematically illustrates an exemplary process.

Large rectangular arrays 1 cm of unit cells were fabricated on a Si wafer. The arrays were sandwiched in between a sacrificial layer and an etch mask of SiOto facilitate later processing. A side view of the fabrication design for a crossed dipole flake is shown in . A 150 nm layer of SiOwas deposited via electron beam evaporation upon a clean Si wafer . A 250 nm layer of BCB was added via spin coating. Gold Au crossed dipole elements 75 nm thick were added by electron beam lithography and lift off. In this step Au alignment marks were added for later alignment of the etch mask. A second 250 nm coating of BCB was applied. This was followed by a SiOetch mask patterned by electron beam lithography and liftoff.

The fabrication design for a square loop element symmetric about a ground plane is shown in . A sacrificial layer of 150 nm SiOwas deposited upon a clean Si wafer . A first layer of 125 nm BCB was added by spin coating and followed by a first set of 75 nm thick Au square loop elements created by electron beam lithography and lift off. A second coating 575 nm of BCB was then applied. A 150 nm Cr ground plane was added by electron beam evaporation. A third layer of 500 nm BCB was added followed by another layer of Au elements. After this a final 200 nm layer of BCB was applied. An etch mask of 150 nm thick SiOwas patterned by electron beam lithography.

For both designs Au elements were fabricated by direct write electron beam lithography and liftoff. We used ZEP 520A 7 resist which was cured for three minutes at 180 C. The lithography was performed on a Leica EBPG5000 electron beam lithography system. The resonant elements had line widths of 200 nm and 300 nm square loop and crossed dipole respectively although the system is capable of finer resolution e.g. down to 10 nm. After exposure the sample was developed in ZEP RD for 90 seconds. Au elements were deposited by electron beam evaporation a Ti adhesion layer was included before and after each Au deposition . Lift off was performed in ZEP remover N N dimethylacetamide under ultrasonic agitation. The SiOsacrificial layer and etch mask were fabricated using the same equipment and processes as the Au elements. The BCB polymer was CYCLOTENE 3022 35 Dow Chemical Company . Although it exhibits absorption in the 8 m 13 m range BCB is relatively transparent over the wide range of interest. BCB was applied by spin coating and then hard cured at 250 C. for 5 minutes on a hot plate in an inert environment. The fabrication required various thicknesses of BCB. These were realized by mixing BCB with its thinner mesitylene and to a lesser extent changing the speeds of the spin coater. The thickness of BCB was determined with a J. A. Woollam IR VASE ellipsometer.

The dimensions of the flakes were defined by the SiOetch mask. The first plasma etch cut through the openings of the etch mask and removed unwanted material down to the ground plane. Next a wet etch in CHROME ETCH Ashland Specialty Chemical Company was used to etch through the Cr ground plane. The final plasma etch cut through the bottom layer of BCB. The plasma etching took place in a Branson P2000 barrel etcher. Etching BCB in this manner requires an introduction of fluorinated gas into the Oenvironment as Oplasma alone is known to lead to a self passivating etch process. We found that a combination of CFand Othat was roughly 1 3 led to etch rates of approximately 150 nm per minute at 200 W.

The flakes were released from the substrate in a buffered oxide etch BOE which is known to selectively etch SiO. The flakes were released within a few minutes in BOE under ultrasonic agitation which also removed remaining portions of the etch mask. We found that in the limit of exposure in our experiment the BOE did not significantly attack the BCB or the Cr. To stop the etching process and collect the flakes we used a nylon filter screen attached to the end of a syringe. The openings in the filter screen were 11 m square roughly half of the intended flake size. The collection of flakes on the filter media were transferred onto a clean Si wafer for observation and testing. The resulting sample was momentarily placed on a 180 C. hot plate to evaporate any remaining BOE. In all observations and measurements the flakes were merely clinging to the wafer held slightly by what is believed to be a result of their initially wet application.

The physical results of the fabrication were observed by both optical microscopy and scanning electron microscopy using an Olympus optical microscope and a Zeiss Ultra 55 scanning electron microscope SEM . Since the Au metamaterial elements were encased in dielectric SEM imaging produced images with good contrast. Spectral reflectivity measurements were taken of the collected flakes and also the full array before etching using a Perkin Elmer micro FTIR spectrometer with an input diameter of 100 m and a full angle field of view of 28 .

In an alternative exemplary aspect we spin coated a polymer sacrificial layer of polyaliphatic imide copolymer onto the silicon wafer. The copolymer was suspended in cyclopentanone 65 85 and tetrahydrofurfurryl 10 15 solvent solution which is available as NANO PMGI SF series resist. The stripping solvent was a solution of dioxolane 70 80 and propylene glycol monomethyl ether 20 30 available as EBR PG edge bead remover.

It will be appreciated that the embodied invention is not limited to the illustrative crossed dipole and square loop resonant element structures types described hereinabove. schematically illustrate other exemplary resonant element structure types.

In each of these embodied aspects the variable is the effective wavelength which depends upon the permittivity of dielectric surrounding the element. The exact value of the effective wavelength depends upon the design but it typically ranges from 10 to 2 where is the free space wavelength. When these elements are arrayed as a frequency selective surface the periodicity is typically such that the space between elements is as small as 0.01 and can be as large as 2. The wires that make up the elements typically have widths to scale with the figures but this can be varied greatly depending upon the design. All of these element types may be fabricated using the same lithographic techniques and are all well suited for use in metamaterial flakes.

The fabricated samples for each flake scheme closely matched our intended designs. respectively are SEM images of single flake examples of the crossed dipole and square loop designs. The guard ring contributed to a much cleaner fabrication process as the presence of elements and the ground plane in between the flakes complicated the BCB removal. The faint perimeter line in shows a small etch bias from the isotropic plasma etch.

We measured wavelength dependent reflectivity in areas with high concentrations of flakes such as those seen in . shows a typical assortment of many flakes while shows the flakes on a scale close to that of the FTIR input aperture 10 m diameter . The flakes tend to lie flat on the collection wafer unless they overlap from the SEM images we estimate that the majority of the flakes are oriented within 15 from normal incidence. A crude estimate of the spatial fill factor of the flakes in the measurement area can be made by placing a grid over the figure to compare the flake filled sections to the voids. For this yields a fill factor of approximately 65 . In one can also see that a design without a guard ring results in jagged edges and some left over Au elements since Au is not affected by the CF Oplasma etch.

It may be advantageous to disperse the metamaterial flakes in an IR transparent binder to form e.g. a paint for application of the metamaterial composition on a surface that may have an irregular topology. The solvent that the flakes are originally transferred into can be allowed to evaporate to make the flake mixture denser. A surfactants can advantageously be added to the solvent to prevent the flakes from sticking together although commercially available solvents appear to have sufficient surfactant concentrations to prevent flakes from sticking together which is more problematic with a buffered oxide etch. Exemplary IR transparent binders include but are not limited to poly methyl methacrylate PMMA or an acrylic polymer emulsion.

We note also that no binder may be required. The flake mixture may be dispensed onto a surface in the solvent. The solvent will evaporate rapidly e.g. 10 times faster than water for embodied dioxolane based solvents leaving just the flakes behind which adhere to the surface due to static electricity forces or stiction. is a photocopy showing taggants in a dioxolane solvent is a photocopy showing a non planar rubber surface immediately after applying the mixture is a photocopy showing the non planar rubber surface in after the mixture was allowed to dry for several minutes. Note that this application is not limited to a rubber surface rather any number of surfaces would be suitable for such application as one skilled in the art would understand.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening.

The recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein.

All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not impose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.

No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. There is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

