---

title: Methods of operating an exoskeleton for gait assistance and rehabilitation
abstract: A method of operating an exoskeleton device includes: receiving sensor information; connecting a clutch system to a pulley system in; determining whether to engage a drive train gear to the clutch system based on the sensor information; engaging the drive train gear through the clutch system when determined to engage the drive train gear; and powering a first motor to drive the drive train gear for controlling a joint or segment of exoskeleton device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09545353&OS=09545353&RS=09545353
owner: Leonis Medical Corporation
number: 09545353
owner_city: Moffett Field
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 513 507 filed Jul. 29 2011 and the subject matter thereof is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

This invention relates generally to an exoskeleton device and in particular to an exoskeleton device with an actuation system.

Physical therapy is a much needed remedy for those patients who suffer great injuries. However the effects of clinical sessions are gradual and may not help with day to day activities. Wearable physical therapy device may be used as to complement these clinical sessions. However these wearable devices face many challenges.

Existing wearable physical therapy devices can be inflexible. The existing wearable physical therapy devices are not very customizable and lack personalization. Hence the existing devices cannot be used as a general solution across a variety of patients and injuries. The existing wearable physical therapy devices are generally passive and cannot react to special situations.

Thus a need remains for an effective device and system to facilitate physical recovery. In view of the ever increasing medical needs along with growing competitive pressure in the manufacture of the medical devices for rehabilitation it is now essential that the problems described be solved. Solutions to these problems have been long sought but prior developments have not taught or suggested any solutions. Accordingly viable solutions to these problems have eluded those skilled in the art.

The present invention provides a method of operating an exoskeleton device including receiving sensor information connecting a clutch system to a pulley system in determining whether to engage a drive train gear to the clutch system based on the sensor information engaging the drive train gear through the clutch system when determined to engage the drive train gear and powering a first motor to drive the drive train gear for controlling a joint or segment of the exoskeleton device. The exoskeleton device can provide gait assistance rehabilitation of the user or physical augmentation of the user s abilities.

In one embodiment the invention provides an exoskeleton device for gait assistance and rehabilitation comprising a skeleton joint system for providing support and structure to the exoskeleton device a textile over the skeleton joint system a detachable actuation system a pulley system configured to be engaged to the detachable actuation system and a sensor system attached to the skeleton joint system.

A further embodiment of the invention includes an actuator system for an exoskeleton device comprising a closed loop cable system attached to points on the exoskeleton device a pulley system connected to the closed loop cable system a detachable motor and gear system and a drive shaft for engaging or disengaging the detachable motor and gear system to the pulley system.

Some embodiments of the invention have other aspects elements features and steps in addition to or in place of what is described above. These potential additions and replacements are described throughout the rest of the specification

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The present invention includes an exoskeleton for gait assistance. The exoskeleton can have a passive locking system at joints of the exoskeleton for gait assistance including providing mobile and stationary stability. The passive locking system at the joints can be implemented by a clutch system such as a pawl clutch system.

The exoskeleton can also be motorized by an actuation system. The exoskeleton can include a sensor system for providing bio mechanical feedback information to a control system. For example the sensor system can determine if the user of the exoskeleton is standing up sitting down walking running climbing a hill falling unstable stable or any combination thereof. The sensor system can accomplish this by utilizing force sensors inertia measurement units potentiometer gyro accelerometer current sensors temperature sensors biofeedback sensors or any combination thereof. At a first setting of the control system the actuation system can allow the user to walk run jump or move freely and provide gait assistance to the user s movement pattern. At a second setting of the control system the actuation system can prevent users from making movements that may hurt or damage the users such as falling or running. Other settings of the control system will allow the user or an operator such as a clinic doctor to balance between freedom of movement and preventive or rehabilitative movement correction.

Referring now to therein is shown an perspective plan view of an exoskeleton system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Some of the structures are shown to be transparent to better illustrate components within the exoskeleton system .

The exoskeleton system includes an exoskeleton device for gait assistance. The exoskeleton system can be worn by a human. The exoskeleton system can be a bilateral knee ankle hip orthotic system. The exoskeleton system can also be a full body exoskeleton system. The exoskeleton system includes at least a skeleton joint system illustrated for example to include the structure of both leg skeletons and their joints in . The exoskeleton system can include a textile an actuation system a pulley system a sensor system a control system or any combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the skeleton joint system the actuation system the pulley system the sensor system and the control system are shown to be visible in the illustration. However it is understood that these system may be covered by each other or other components of the exoskeleton system such as the textile .

The skeleton joint system is defined as a mechanical support structure external to a body such as a human body. The skeleton joint system includes joints . Each of the joints is a location at which two or more segments of the skeleton joint system make contact and rotate or slide in relation to one another. For example the joints can be hinges pivots bearings slides or any combination thereof.

The exoskeleton system can include the textile for assisting a person to wear the exoskeleton system . The textile is defined as a material which may be flexible around the skeleton joint system . For example the textile can be a woven material such as cloth. For another example the textile can be leather nylon spandex polyester carbon fiber plastic or any combination thereof. The textile can be attached to the skeleton joint system with nails glue pins clamps hook and loop bonding encasement other means of attachment or any combination thereof.

The exoskeleton system can include the actuation system for actuating the skeleton joint system . The actuation system is defined as a motor control system. The actuation system can include one or more of an actuator within the actuation system and shown as dotted lines . The actuator is defined as a type of motor for moving or controlling a mechanism or system. The actuation system can be powered by a battery a green energy source an electric source a hydraulic or pneumatic pressure system or any combination thereof.

The exoskeleton system can include the pulley system to facilitate movements of the joints on the skeleton joint system . The pulley system is defined as a system that uses one or more pulleys to lift or move a load through the use of one or more of a cable to transmit tension force around the one or more pulleys. The pulley system can be detachable from the actuation system or be integrated with the actuation system . The pulley system can include at least a pulley . The pulley system can be coupled to a cable system . The pulley system can be modularly detachable from the cable system or be integrated with the cable system .

The cable system includes at least the cable . The cable is defined as a single continuous flexible object. For example the cable can be a rope a wire a nylon line a leather belt a chain other flexible continuous object or any combination thereof. The pulley is defined as a wheel on an axle that is designed to support movement of a cable or belt along its circumference. For example the pulley can be made of wood metal plastic ceramic alloy or any combination thereof.

The sensor system is a system for providing feedback information about the user of the exoskeleton system the environment the exoskeleton system or any combination thereof. The feedback information can be displayed via a user interface to an operator or can be used as part of gait assistance and correction mechanism calculated by the exoskeleton system . The sensor system can include sensors . The sensors can be embedded within the joints the textile or a combination thereof to provide feedback to the control system . Each of the sensors is an electronic device that measures a physical quantity and converts it into a signal which can be read by an observer or instrument. For example the physical quality can include mechanical electrical or biological qualities. The exoskeleton system can have the sensors within the joints for determination of joint angle. The exoskeleton system can also have the sensors for detecting pressure within the textile to determine tension for force application to the user of the system for the purpose of comfort. The sensors can also determine biomechanical feedback information for the control system . The sensors can include accelerometers force sensitive resistors potentiometers inertial measurement units gyrometers biological sensors other electronic sensors of force movement weight acceleration direction location angle or muscle activation or any combination thereof. The sensors can determine acceleration and relative rotation of the limb during gait or other exercises.

The exoskeleton system can include the control system for gait assistance and rehabilitation of patients. The control system can reside in a backpack with the actuation system or in a different pack with the pulley system or altogether separate from both the actuation system or the pulley system . For illustration purposes the control system is shown to reside together with the pulley system . The control system is for determining when and how the actuation system is activated and powered. The control system can determine how much power to supply to the actuation system when to supply the power frequency and pattern of the power or any combination thereof. The control system can include one or more processors and memories to perform methods of gait assistance. The control system can determine when and how much to power each of the actuator in the actuation system to stabilize support or assist the wearer of the exoskeleton system . The control system can also analyze the movement of the wearer to correct for gait pattern or provide support with existing gait pattern. The control system can also analyze other biological measurements of the user such as heart rate oxygenation or others.

This embodiment uses the pulley system to actuate the joints from a back station located on the lower back. The exoskeleton system includes the actuation system that is removable. The pulley system is oriented flat on the back such that a drive shaft from the actuation system can be engaged and disengaged. Dotted lines are shown to illustrate how the drive shaft can fit into the pulley system . In this manner the actuation system can be modularly attached or detached.

The exoskeleton system is designed as both a passive recovery device and an active recovery device. It has been discovered that an exoskeleton that can act as both a passive recovery device and an active recovery device has many business advantages including upgradeability. The passive recovery device can have mechanical joint locking and support structures that can stabilize the wearer of the exoskeleton system and limit body tissue damaging movements.

An upgradeable device such as the exoskeleton system allows the user to upgrade the exoskeleton from a passive device to an active device easily by engaging or disengaging the back station or the actuation system . The modularity allows for different opportunities including creating new business methods not previously available.

The exoskeleton system is also designed to be modularly customizable. Without the actuation system the rest of the exoskeleton system can be individually customized for a patient or a wearer of the exoskeleton system .

Referring now to therein is shown an example illustration of an actuation system . The actuation system is defined as a motor control system. For example the actuation system can be the actuation system of .

The current embodiment of the actuation system can have drive train systems with individual motors arranged on a central circumference. The individual motors and the drive train systems are designed for controlling each joint or segment of a robotics system. A main drive motor is located on a main drive train which powers a main worm gear and a central gear . The central gear or the main worm gear can then couple into the drive train systems of each joint. The individual motors are arranged in a manner which turns individual worm gears . The individual worm gears can be connected via a clutch system which allows a shared main drive motor system by the main drive motor to assist or independently actuate one or more of pulley drive shafts . The clutch system can be a dual clutch system.

The current embodiment of the clutch system can use servo actuated pawls to engage and disengage either of the drive trains such that a drive shaft of the actuation system is connected to the main drive motor the individual motors both the main drive motor and the individual motors or neither. For example the drive shaft can be the drive shaft of . When the clutches are fully disengaged the exoskeleton is in free swing. The clutch system can include pawl clutches. The clutch system can be directional and can be selectively engaged in either the clockwise or counterclockwise direction. When both are engaged the actuation system has positive control over the exoskeleton to control both extension and flexion of the specific joint and act as a stance control system.

The benefits of this embodiment allow fully independent operation of the joints using the individual motors or using the added assistance or independent operation of the main drive motor to drive the joints . The benefits of using a pawl based clutch system include that the system can selectively be used to assist and allow the user to outrun the assistance without interfering with patient intent. The pawl system can additionally be used to positively control the leg in both directions by engaging both counter clockwise and clockwise pawl systems. The benefits of using the worm gear system as a gear reduction solution are beneficial as most worm gears have a non backdriving feature. This allows the use of the device as a stance control brace without wasting energy or driving motors simply by having both counter clockwise and clockwise pawl systems engaged and leaving the motors stopped.

Other embodiments of the invention use alternate gearing elements in the drivetrain to change the gearing such as planetary gear sun gear combination spur gear other types of worm gear other simple combinations of gears to manipulate toque of the motors to the prescribed level or any combination thereof. Other embodiments could implement alternate one way clutch designs such as friction clutches or selective needle bearing clutches.

Referring now to therein is shown an example illustration of a pulley system . The pulley system is a system that uses one or more pulleys to lift or move a load through the use of one or more cables to transmit tension force around the one or more pulleys. For example the pulley system can be the pulley system of .

The pulley system can be actuated by an actuation system such as the actuation system of or the actuation system of . The pulley drive shafts can connect to or disconnect from pulley shafts to allow the motor system to turn pulleys to actuate a cable system .

Referring now to therein is shown an example illustration of a clutch system . includes three different illustrations of the clutch system . illustrates a clutch control portion of the clutch system . Particularly illustrates how one or more of servos can engage or disengage a clutch portion of the clutch system . illustrates a perspective top view of the clutch portion of the clutch system . illustrates a side view of the clutch portion of the clutch system .

A clutch system can employ a method of actuation which is driven by the servos . The servos can actuate a platform such as ramped rings around a base which move vertically to control swing arms such as a clutch keys which either allow pawls to engage or close a pawl engagement opening to disengage a clutch . The pawls are attached to the rest of the actuation system or pulley system not shown . The clutch keys are defined as mechanical arm like structures for triggering the pawls to spring out or retract. In another embodiment the servos can actuate a pulley cable which moves the platform up and down to control the extension and retraction of the clutch keys .

The clutch system can be a non contact pawl clutch system with bi stable spring mechanism. The clutch system can included a system of activation by the use of bi stable spring systems. A bi stable spring system has two low energy points which are stable positions. The clutch system can allow the pawls of the clutch to stay disengaged from internal gears without incurring friction when the clutch system is rotating in either direction. This leads to higher efficiency rotation without incurring drag. The clutch system can use an actuation system which pushes or pulls the pawls from one state to the other. When a first set of the pawls are engaged the pawls ratchet in one direction and provide force in the other. A second set of the pawls is independently actuated and provides force in the opposite direction to the first set of pawls. Kickers are actuated by the clutch keys to open or close some or all of the pawl engagement opening . The pawls are spring loaded to engage into the pawl engagement opening . When the pawl engagement opening is closed by the kickers the kickers would prevent one or more of the pawls from engaging with the clutch .

The use of the clutch keys such as ramped linear pins can turn the clutch on or off depending on which state each of the clutch keys is in. The ratcheting pawl clutches are turned on and off by the clutch keys which are actuated in an axis parallel to the axis of the rotation of a pawl clutch . The clutch keys can rotate with the axle body and pawl pockets . The clutch keys can be actuated by the servos which lift and lower a platform such as the ramped rings . For example the platform can be actuated by a cable coupled to the servos . The clutch keys can rotate freely with the axle during the operation of the servos . The pawls and outer structure of the clutch are rotated directly by a worm wheel or indirectly by chain belt or cable system.

In one embodiment the clutch system can be integrated directly into the joints of the exoskeleton a dual directional ratcheting clutch mechanism designed into each joint. The advantages of this system include reduced friction in free swing modes and reduced compliance of force application to the joint. The exoskeleton system becomes essentially a stance control brace without active force application but with controlled free swing in both directions and the ability to fully lock in a given position.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a system hardware diagram of a control system . The control system is for determining when or how an actuation system is activated and powered. The control system can determine how much power to supply to the actuation system when to supply the power frequency and pattern of the power or any combination thereof. For example the control system can be the control system of .

The control system can include one or more methods of controlling motors in an actuation system such as the actuation system of . The one or more methods can be implemented by components storages and modules described below. The components and modules can be implemented as hardware modules software modules or any combination thereof. For example the modules described can be software modules implemented as instructions on a non transitory memory capable of being executed by a processor or a controller on a machine.

The control system can include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as memory communication interfaces user interfaces network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The control system can include an user interface for making adjustments with the control system . The user interface is a device or module capable of receiving user inputs. For example the user interface can be a tablet a personal computer a laptop a cell phone an e reader a mouse a keyboard a touch screen a microphone an application programming interface a software interface a camera or any combination thereof.

The user interface can communicate through a communication channel with a control center . For example the communication channel can be an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. The communication channel can be any suitable network for any suitable communication interface. As an example and not by way of limitation the communication channel can be an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As another example the communication channel can be a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a 3G or 4G network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network .

In one embodiment the communication channel uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the communication channel can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the communication channel can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the communication channel can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The control center is a computer processor such as a central processing unit CPU . For example the control center can be a multiple input and or multiple output computing device such as the Delfino TMS320C28346 CPU.

The control center can receive sensor information through controller area network CAN buses. For example the control center can receive sensor information from a left thigh sensor board through a left thigh CAN a left shin sensor board through a left shin CAN a right thigh sensor board through a right thigh CAN and a right shin sensor board through a right shin CAN . The CANs and are controller area network buses. The left thigh sensor board the right thigh sensor board the left shin sensor board and the right shin sensor board are examples of a sensor board. The sensor board is defined as a control device for processing information from sensors. Each of the sensor boards can be the sensor board as described in . The sensor boards can convert the signals received from each of sensors into analog or digital information understandable by the control center . The sensor boards can also normalize the sensor signals before passing it on to the control center .

The control center can be in communication with a motor system through motor CANs . The control center can send commands to request particular operations of the motor systems to support patients during therapy sessions. The motor system can include one or more of a motor controller each of them in communication with the control center through one of the motor CANs . The motor controller is a processing unit for controlling a motor. For example the motor controller can be a CPU such as the Piccolo TMS320F28034.

The motor system can also include a motor and an encoder . The motor can receive instructions directly from the motor controller such as pattern and schedule of applying power to the motor . The motor controller can also control the details of movement of the motor such as acceleration direction velocity temperature or any combination thereof.

The motor can provide information for the encoder . The encoder is defined as a transducer. The encoder can sense a position or an orientation of the motor for reference or active feedback control. The encoder can detect positional or orientation information from the motor back to the motor controller to provide the motor controller with feedback information.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a block diagram of a main board . For example the main board can be part of the control system of . The main board can include a control CPU . For example the control CPU can be the control center of . The control CPU can be connected to communication modules via different kind of buses. For example the control CPU can be connected through a first module connection to a wireless communication module . The first module connection can be for example an universal asynchronous receiver transmitter a piece of computer hardware that translates data between parallel and serial forms. The first module connection can also be a scalable coherent interface SCI . The SCI can be a processor memory IO bus.

The wireless communication module is defined as a communication port for wirelessly communicating with a remote device. For example the wireless communication module can be a Bluetooth wireless protocol communication unit that can receive short range Bluetooth signals and convert it to a signal understandable by the control CPU . For example the remote device can be an user interface . The user interface is a user device for receiving and relaying user input. For example the user interface can be the user interface of .

The control CPU can also communicate with other modules or processor units through CAN buses . The CAN buses can connect one or more of CAN transceivers with the control CPU . The CAN transceivers are devices comprising both a transmitter and a receiver which can communicate through the controller area network CAN . For example the control CPU can be connected through a motor transceiver to motor boards . For another example the control CPU can be connected through a sensor transceiver to sensor boards .

The control CPU can be connected through a second module connection to a USB transceiver . The second module connection can be the same type of connection as the first module connection . For example the second module connection can be a SCI bus. The USB transceiver can be a universal serial bus USB port. The USB transceiver can be used to receive external information from external devices such as laptops computers media devices tablets smart phones or any combination thereof. The USB transceiver can also be used to send information off to external devices such as printers multi functional peripherals fax machines external hard drives or any combination thereof.

The control CPU can be connected through a servo channel to servos . The servo channel is a wired channel to communicate with the servos . For example the servo channel can include pulse width modulated signal channels through one or more cables. The servos are defined as automatic devices that can control mechanical positions through their movements. The servos can use error sensing negative feedback to correct the performance of a physical mechanism described in the present invention.

The control CPU can be connected through a peripheral bus to a variety of external devices. The peripheral bus is defined as a bus for connecting with external devices. For example the peripheral bus can be a Serial Peripheral Interface Bus SPI bus .

The control CPU can be connected through the peripheral bus to an external memory . For example the external memory can be an external secured digital SD card SD Flash memory stick flash compact flash card or any combination thereof. For example the external memory can be for storing gait history movement settings sensor data gait profile or any combination thereof.

The control CPU can be connected through the peripheral bus to an analog to digital converter . The analog to digital converter can be used by the control CPU to convert sensor output analog signals to digital signals. The control CPU can also be connected through the peripheral bus to a speaker . The speaker can be used by the control CPU to generate warning messages to the user of the exoskeleton. The control CPU can also generate auditory messages regarding the operation of the exoskeleton via playback of recorded sound or via text to speech technology.

The control CPU can be connected through a component bus to a variety of components. The component bus is defined as an inter integrated circuit board bus. For example the component bus can be a I2C bus.

The control CPU can be connected through the component bus to a clock . The clock is defined as a time keeping component. For example the clock can be a real time clock capable of synchronizing with other systems.

The control CPU can be connected through the component bus to a non volatile memory . The non volatile memory is defined as a non volatile memory component for storing data. For example the non volatile memory can be a non volatile random access memory for storing gait history movement freedom settings sensor data gait profile or any combination thereof.

The control CPU can be connected through the component bus to a temperature sensor . The temperature sensor is defined as a sensor capable of measuring the degree of heat present in its environment. For example the temperature sensor can be a MAX6635MSA sensor.

The control CPU can be connected through the component bus to a gyroscope and an accelerometer . The gyroscope can maintain a specific orientation. The gyroscope can also measure the changes in orientation. The accelerometer can measure the degree of change in velocity or speed. The control CPU can use the position information orientation information and acceleration information to determine the stability of the exoskeleton or the user predict the intended movements of the user whether the user is for instance sitting down standing walking or crouching or any combination thereof.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a block diagram of a motor board . For example the motor board can be part of the control system of . The motor board is a circuit for controlling motors of actuator systems in the present invention.

The motor board can communicate with other components of the invention via a controller network transceiver . The motor board can include a processor coupled to the controller area network transceiver . The processor can receive an input message via the controller area network transceiver from a mainboard or a control system such as the main board of or the control system of . The processor can send an output message to the mainboard and the control system as well such as information about the operation of the motors.

The motor board can include indicators . The indicators are defined as components for signaling to an operator the status of the motor board . For example the indicators can be colored or monochrome light emitting diodes LEDs colored lights beepers or any combination thereof.

The motor board can include a motor driver . The motor driver is defined as a piece of hardware for controlling a motor such as the motor of . The motor board can also include a voltage sensor and a current sensor . The voltage sensor can measure the voltage applied to the motor and send it back to the processor . The current sensor can measure the current drawn by the motor and send it back to the processor . The signals from the voltage sensor and the current sensor can be used as feedback to better control the speed and torque of the motors.

The motor board can include a H bridge . The H bridge is defined as an electronic circuit that enables a voltage to be applied across a load in different directions. The H bridge can be used to allow direct current DC motors to run forwards and backwards. For example the H bridge can be used to run a motor forward and backwards. The H bridge can send a trapezoidal or a sinusoidal electric signal function to the motor to drive it to rotate.

The motor can be coupled to an encoder . The motor can provide information for the encoder . The encoder is defined as a transducer. For example the encoder can be the encoder of . The encoder can sense a position or an orientation of the motor for reference or active feedback control. The encoder can detect positional or orientation information from the motor back to the processor to provide the processor with feedback information. For example the encoder can provide motor speed and direction through an encoder interface such as a Quadrature Encoder Interface QEI . The encoder interface can provide the interface to incremental encoders for obtaining mechanical position data. Quadrature encoders can detect position and speed of rotating motion systems. The encoder and the encoder interface enable closed loop control of motor control applications such as Switched Reluctance SR and AC Induction Motor ACIM .

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a block diagram of a sensor board . For example the sensor board can be part of the control system of . The sensor board is a circuit for controlling one or more sensors in the present invention.

The sensor board can include a processor . The processor can communicate with other components of the invention via a controller area network transceiver . For example the controller area network transceiver can output analog or digitized outputs of the one or more sensors connected to the sensor board . On board sensors can be connected to the processor via a component bus . The component bus is defined as an inter integrated circuit board bus. For example the component bus can be an I2C bus.

The sensor board can be connected to an accelerometer via the component bus . The sensor board can be connected to a gyro via the component bus .

The sensor board can be coupled to or include an analog to digital converter . Force sensors can be connected to the processor via the analog to digital converter . The analog to digital converter can be an internal or external component of the sensor board such as the analog to digital converter of . The force sensors are defined as sensors capable of detecting pressure forces. For example the force sensors can include force sensitive resistors. illustrates an example of a package of the force sensors . The force sensors can be used to sense force applied on feet back and front thighs back and front shins or lower back of the user or any combination thereof. These data then be used to trigger operations to support patients during therapy sessions.

A potentiometer can also be connected to the processor via the analog to digital converter . The same or different instance of the analog to digital converter can be used for the potentiometer and the force sensors . The potentiometer is defined as a component that can act as an adjustable voltage divider. The potentiometer can be used as a position sensor. The potentiometer can also be used to adjust the sensitivity of the sensors connected to the processor . The potentiometers can be used to sense hip knee and ankle angles. These angles can be used as feed back data to correct and control operations in the control center of .

The processor can include a general purpose input output TO . The general purpose TO is defined as a generic pin on a chip such as the processor whose behavior including whether it is an input or output pin can be controlled or programmed through software. The processor can be programmed to output indication signal via lights . For example the lights can be single color LEDs.

Referring now to therein is shown an example illustration of a sensor . For example the sensor can be a sensor in the sensor system of operated by the sensor board of .

Sensors such as the sensor can be embedded in the textile both under and over the structural layer of the textile to determine forces acting upon the patient. The system can use force sensitive sensors placed on the anterior and posterior of the patient limbs both proximally and distally of the center point of each limb. The actuator system can apply force to the exoskeleton system which is then transferred to the patient body through the structural system and textile. By placing the sensors strategically between the structural textile and the body these forces are measured to allow the system to determine how much force the system is placing on the body in order to allow the system to feed back into the control system. Additionally sensors may be placed on the outside of the structural textile to determine the force differential between the forces applied by the exoskeleton and the forces applied externally by objects such as a chair in which the patient is seated in.

The sensor can include a sensor plate . The sensor plate can be a force sensitive resistor. For example the sensor plate can be made from a material whose resistance changes when a force or pressure is applied. Such material can include a conductive polymer sheet or a conductive ink applied on a conductive plate.

One or more of the sensor plate can be connected via a sensor connector . The sensor connector can be a cable a wire or other conductive path for propagating signal from the sensor plate . The sensor connector can be bundled into a connection bundle . The connection bundle can be a collection of the sensor connector with a standardized connection to connect with an analog to digital converter or a sensor board. The entire body of the sensor can be wrapped in a sensor wrap to insulate and protect the sensor plate and the sensor connector .

Referring now to therein is shown an example illustration of an actuation system in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention. The actuation system is defined as a motor control system. For example the actuation system can be the actuation system of

In this embodiment the actuation system uses a main drive motor and a main drive train including a worm and a worm gear to rotate a cam profile system . The cam profile system can actuate linear cam followers to directly actuate pulley systems cables to rotate joints. The cams are designed specifically to actuate the knee angle and hip joints in the manner of a gait cycle and can be tuned to operate from standard walking gait or to mimic the specific gait style of a particular performance runner. The linear cam followers can be actuated by motors to vary the range of motion of the joints to allow deviation from standard gait.

The benefit of this embodiment is that the motor is nominally driven at a fixed speed for a gait of a specific cadence and the limbs of the user can be assisted in the designed gait of the particular cam profiles. The cam profiles can be tuned to lengthen or shorten stride hip actuation knee flexion at launch or other particular gait biomechanics which are deemed useful to improve gait. The device could be used both as a gait teaching device for users affected with disabilities as well as able bodied athletes simply desiring to learn or improve with a different running style or biomechanics.

Referring now to therein is shown a flow chart of a method of operating an exoskeleton system such as the exoskeleton system of in a further embodiment of the present invention. The method includes receiving sensor information in a method step connecting a dual clutch system to a pulley system in a method step determining whether to engage a drive train gear to the dual clutch system based on the sensor information in a method step engaging the drive train gear through the dual clutch system when determined to engage the drive train gear in a method step and powering a first motor to drive the drive train gear for controlling a joint or segment of exoskeleton device in a method step .

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure can be but not necessarily are references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one of the embodiments.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or any combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

While processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the disclosure is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 916 other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 916 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed above or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using capitalization italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that same element can be described in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

