---

title: Fully flexible exhaust valve actuator control systems and methods
abstract: A system for a vehicle includes a mode control module and a valve control module. The mode control module selectively sets a desired ignition mode for an engine to one of a spark ignition (SI) mode and a homogenous charge compression ignition (HCCI) mode. Using a fully flexible valve actuator, the valve actuator module selectively adjusts closing timing of an exhaust valve in response to: the desired ignition mode transitioning from the HCCI mode to the SI mode; and the desired ignition mode transitioning from the SI mode to the HCCI mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002623&OS=09002623&RS=09002623
owner: GM Global Technology Operations LLC
number: 09002623
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---
Portions or all of this invention may have been produced pursuant to U.S. Government Contract No. DE FC26 05NT42415. The U.S. Government may therefore have certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to internal combustion engines and more particularly to fully flexible valve control systems and methods.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

Air is drawn into an engine through an intake manifold. A throttle valve and or engine valve timing controls airflow into the engine. The air mixes with fuel from one or more fuel injectors to form an air fuel mixture. The air fuel mixture is combusted within one or more cylinders of the engine. Combustion of the air fuel mixture may be initiated by for example injection of the fuel or spark provided by a spark plug.

Combustion of the air fuel mixture produces torque and exhaust gas. Torque is generated via heat release and expansion during combustion of the air fuel mixture. The engine transfers torque to a transmission via a crankshaft and the transmission transfers torque to one or more wheels via a driveline. The exhaust gas is expelled from the cylinders to an exhaust system.

An engine control module ECM controls the torque output of the engine. The ECM may control the torque output of the engine based on driver inputs and or other inputs. The driver inputs may include for example accelerator pedal position brake pedal position and or one or more other suitable driver inputs. The other inputs may include for example cylinder pressure measured using a cylinder pressure sensor one or more variables determined based on the measured cylinder pressure and or one or more other suitable values.

A system for a vehicle includes a mode control module and a valve control module. The mode control module selectively sets a desired ignition mode for an engine to one of a spark ignition SI mode and a homogenous charge compression ignition HCCI mode. Using a fully flexible valve actuator the valve actuator module selectively adjusts closing timing of an exhaust valve in response to the desired ignition mode transitioning from the HCCI mode to the SI mode and the desired ignition mode transitioning from the SI mode to the HCCI mode.

A method for a vehicle includes selectively setting a desired ignition mode for an engine to one of a spark ignition SI mode and a homogenous charge compression ignition HCCI mode. The method further includes using a fully flexible valve actuator selectively adjusting closing timing of an exhaust valve in response to the desired ignition mode transitioning from the HCCI mode to the SI mode and the desired ignition mode transitioning from the SI mode to the HCCI mode.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.

An engine combusts a mixture of air and fuel within cylinders to generate drive torque. A throttle valve regulates airflow into the engine. Fuel is injected by fuel injectors. Intake and exhaust valves of a cylinder are controlled to regulate airflow into the cylinder and exhaust flow out of the cylinder.

Combustion of the air fuel mixture within the engine may be initiated in one or more ways. For example during operation in a spark ignition SI mode spark generated by spark plugs may ignite the air fuel mixture. During operation of the engine in a homogenous charge compression ignition HCCI mode heat and pressure from compression may ignite the air fuel mixture. Spark plugs may be disabled or remain enabled during operation in the HCCI mode.

Traditionally opening of the intake and exhaust valves of the cylinder is controlled by one or more camshafts. Using a fully flexible valve actuation FFVA system however each valve of the engine can be controlled independently of each other valve. For example an engine control module ECM can control opening of an intake valve of a cylinder separately from an exhaust valve of the cylinder. The ECM can also control opening of the intake valve of the cylinder separately from intake valves of other cylinders.

During operation in HCCI mode the ECM regulates exhaust valve closing timing of each cylinder based on a first predetermined timing. The ECM regulates the exhaust valve closing timing of each cylinder based on a second predetermined timing during operation in SI mode. The second predetermined timing may be later than i.e. retarded from the first predetermined timing. Generally where the exhaust valve closing timing is before top dead center TDC following the exhaust stroke retarding the exhaust valve closing timing decreases the amount of exhaust that will remain trapped within a cylinder and vice versa.

To transition from HCCI mode to SI mode the ECM may switch from regulating exhaust valve closing timing based on the first predetermined timing to regulating exhaust valve closing timing based on the second predetermined timing over one engine cycle. The ECM may switch from regulating exhaust valve closing timing based on the second predetermined timing to regulating exhaust valve closing timing based on the first predetermined timing over one engine cycle for a transition from SI mode to HCCI mode. Such a step change in exhaust valve closing timing however may cause a change in the amount of residual exhaust gas trapped within the cylinders and a change in the amount of air that can be drawn into the cylinders among other affected parameters. Discrete changes in the amount of residual exhaust gas and or air per cylinder APC may cause changes in engine torque output and or one or more other engine operating parameters.

The ECM therefore adjusts exhaust valve closing timing incrementally during transitions from HCCI mode to SI mode and vice versa. When transitioning to SI mode the ECM incrementally retards exhaust valve closing timing to reduce residual exhaust gas. When transitioning to HCCI mode the ECM incrementally advances exhaust valve closing timing to increase residual exhaust gas. Adjusting exhaust valve closing timing incrementally may minimize the magnitude of changes in engine torque output during transitions from HCCI mode to SI mode and vice versa.

Referring now to a functional block diagram of an example engine system is presented. The engine system includes an engine that combusts an air fuel mixture to produce drive torque for a vehicle based on driver input from a driver input module . Air is drawn into an intake manifold through a throttle valve . For example only the throttle valve may include a butterfly valve having a rotatable blade. An engine control module ECM controls a throttle actuator module and the throttle actuator module regulates opening of the throttle valve to control the amount of air drawn into the intake manifold .

Air from the intake manifold is drawn into cylinders of the engine . While the engine may include more than one cylinder for illustration purposes a single representative cylinder is shown. The engine may operate using a four stroke cycle. The four strokes described below may be named the intake stroke the compression stroke the combustion stroke and the exhaust stroke. During each revolution of a crankshaft not shown two of the four strokes occur within the cylinder . Therefore two crankshaft revolutions are necessary for the cylinder to complete all four of the strokes.

During the intake stroke air from the intake manifold is drawn into the cylinder through an intake valve . The ECM controls a fuel actuator module which regulates fuel injection by fuel injectors not shown to achieve a desired air fuel ratio. The fuel injectors inject fuel directly into the cylinders. Fuel is provided to the fuel injectors by a low pressure fuel pump and a high pressure fuel pump not shown . The low pressure fuel pump draws fuel from a fuel tank and provides fuel at low pressures to the high pressure fuel pump. The high pressure fuel pump selectively further pressurizes the fuel for direct injection into the cylinders.

The injected fuel mixes with air and creates an air fuel mixture in the cylinder . During the compression stroke a piston not shown within the cylinder compresses the contents of the cylinder . Based upon a signal from the ECM a spark actuator module may energize a spark plug in the cylinder . Spark generated by the spark plug ignites the air fuel mixture during spark ignition SI operation. The timing of the spark may be specified relative to the time when the piston is at its topmost position referred to as top dead center TDC . During homogenous charge compression ignition HCCI operation heat and pressure generated by compression causes ignition of the air fuel mixture. The ECM may control whether the engine operates using SI or HCCI. The ECM may determine whether to operate the engine using HCCI or SI for example based on engine speed engine load and or one or more other suitable parameters.

Generating spark may be referred to as a firing event. The spark actuator module may have the ability to vary the timing of the spark for each firing event. The spark actuator module may even be capable of varying the spark timing for a next firing event when the spark timing is changed between a last firing event and the next firing event.

During the combustion stroke the combustion of the air fuel mixture drives the piston away from TDC thereby driving the crankshaft. The combustion stroke may be defined as the time between the piston reaching TDC and the time at which the piston returns to bottom dead center BDC .

During the exhaust stroke the piston begins moving up from BDC and expels the byproducts of combustion through one or more exhaust valves such as exhaust valve . The byproducts of combustion are exhausted from the vehicle via an exhaust system .

An intake valve actuator controls actuation of the intake valve . An exhaust valve actuator controls actuation of the exhaust valve . A valve actuator module controls the intake and exhaust valve actuators and based on signals from the ECM .

The intake and exhaust valve actuators and control opening and closing of the intake and exhaust valves and respectively. The intake and exhaust valve actuators and are fully flexible valve actuators. The intake and exhaust valve actuators and may include for example electro hydraulic actuators electro mechanical actuators or another suitable type of fully flexible valve actuator. Fully flexible valve actuators may be camshaft based valve actuators or camless valve actuators. One fully flexible valve actuator may be provided for each intake valve of the engine and one fully flexible valve actuator may be provided for each exhaust valve of the engine . In various implementations one fully flexible valve actuator may be provided for a set of intake valves of each cylinder and one fully flexible valve actuator may be provided for a set of exhaust valves of each cylinder. In various implementations one fully flexible valve actuator may be provided for all of the intake valves of the engine and one fully flexible valve actuator may be provided for all exhaust valves of the engine .

Fully flexible intake and exhaust valve actuators enable actuation of each intake valve and exhaust valve of the engine to be controlled independently of each other valve. The intake and exhaust valve actuators provide what may be referred to as fully flexible valve actuation FFVA . Using FFVA the flow of gasses into and out of each cylinder can be regulated via control of intake and exhaust valve opening and closing to control the flow into and out of the cylinders and therefore the combustion conditions within each cylinder. For example exhaust valve closing timing of a cylinder may be adjusted advanced or retarded to control the amount of residual exhaust trapped within each cylinder.

The engine system may include a boost device that provides pressurized air to the intake manifold . For example shows a turbocharger including a hot turbine that is powered by hot exhaust gases flowing through the exhaust system . The turbocharger also includes a cold air compressor driven by the turbine that compresses air leading into the throttle valve . In various implementations a supercharger not shown driven by the crankshaft may compress air from the throttle valve and deliver the compressed air to the intake manifold .

A wastegate may allow exhaust to bypass the turbine thereby reducing the boost the amount of intake air compression of the turbocharger. The ECM may control the turbocharger via a boost actuator module . The boost actuator module may modulate the boost of the turbocharger by controlling the position of the wastegate . In various implementations multiple turbochargers may be controlled by the boost actuator module . The turbocharger may have variable geometry which may be controlled by the boost actuator module .

An intercooler not shown may dissipate some of the heat contained in the compressed air charge which is generated as the air is compressed. The compressed air charge may also have absorbed heat from components of the exhaust system . Although shown separated for purposes of illustration the turbine and the compressor may be attached to each other placing intake air in close proximity to hot exhaust.

The engine system may include an exhaust gas recirculation EGR valve which selectively redirects exhaust gas back to the intake manifold . The EGR valve may be located upstream of the turbocharger s turbine . An EGR actuator module may control the EGR valve based on signals from the ECM .

Position of the crankshaft may be measured using a crankshaft position sensor . Engine speed engine acceleration and or one or more other parameters may be determined based on the crankshaft position. A temperature of the engine coolant may be measured using an engine coolant temperature ECT sensor . The ECT sensor may be located within the engine or at other locations where the coolant is circulated such as a radiator not shown .

A pressure within the intake manifold may be measured using a manifold absolute pressure MAP sensor . In various implementations engine vacuum which is the difference between ambient air pressure and the pressure within the intake manifold may be measured. A mass flowrate of air flowing into the intake manifold may be measured using a mass air flowrate MAF sensor . In various implementations the MAF sensor may be located in a housing that also includes the throttle valve .

Position of the throttle valve may be measured using one or more throttle position sensors TPS . For example first and second throttle position sensors and monitor position of the throttle valve and generate first and second throttle positions TPS and TPS respectively based on the throttle position. A temperature of air being drawn into the engine may be measured using an intake air temperature IAT sensor . The ECM may use signals from the sensors and or one or more other sensors to make control decisions for the engine system .

A transmission control module may control operation of a transmission not shown . The ECM may communicate with the transmission control module for various reasons such as to share parameters and to coordinate engine operation with operation of the transmission. For example the ECM may selectively reduce engine torque during a gear shift. The ECM may communicate with a hybrid control module to coordinate operation of the engine and an electric motor .

The electric motor may also function as a generator and may be used to produce electrical energy for use by vehicle electrical systems and or for storage in a battery. The electric motor may also function as a motor and may be used for example to supplement or replace engine torque output. In various implementations various functions of the ECM the transmission control module and the hybrid control module may be integrated into one or more modules.

Each system that varies an engine parameter may be referred to as an actuator. Each actuator receives an actuator value. For example the throttle actuator module may be referred to as an actuator and the throttle opening area may be referred to as the actuator value. In the example of the throttle actuator module achieves the throttle opening area by adjusting an angle of the blade of the throttle valve .

Similarly the spark actuator module may be referred to as an actuator while the corresponding actuator value may be the amount of spark advance relative to cylinder TDC. Other actuators may include the fuel actuator module the valve actuator module the boost actuator module and the EGR actuator module . For these actuators the actuator values may correspond to fueling rate intake and exhaust valve timing boost pressure and EGR valve opening area respectively. The ECM may control actuator values in order to cause the engine to generate a desired engine output torque.

Referring now to a functional block diagram of an example engine control system including a portion of the ECM is presented. An example implementation of the ECM includes a driver torque module an axle torque arbitration module and a propulsion torque arbitration module . The ECM may include a hybrid optimization module . The example implementation of the ECM also includes a reserves loads module an actuation module an air control module a spark control module and a fuel control module . The example implementation of the ECM also includes a boost scheduling module and a valve control module .

The driver torque module may determine a driver torque request e.g. newton meters Nm based on driver input from the driver input module . The driver input may be based on for example a position of an accelerator pedal and a position of a brake pedal. The driver input may also be based on inputs from a cruise control system which may be an adaptive cruise control system. Adaptive cruise control systems vary vehicle speed to maintain a predetermined following distance.

The driver torque module may determine the driver torque request further based on a vehicle speed . For example only the vehicle speed may be generated based on one or more measured wheel speeds a transmission output shaft speed and or one or more other suitable parameters.

An axle torque arbitration module arbitrates between the driver torque request and other axle torque requests . Axle torque torque to the wheels may be produced by various sources including an engine and or an electric motor. The axle torque arbitration module outputs a predicted torque request e.g. in Nm and an immediate torque request e.g. in Nm based on the results of the arbitration between the driver and axle torque requests and . As described below the predicted and immediate torque requests and from the axle torque arbitration module may selectively be adjusted by other modules before being used to control actuators of the engine system .

In general terms the immediate torque request is the amount of currently desired axle torque while the predicted torque request is the amount of axle torque that may be needed on short notice. The ECM controls the engine system to produce an axle torque equal to the immediate torque request . However different combinations of actuator values may result in the same axle torque. The ECM may therefore adjust the actuator values to allow a faster transition to the predicted torque request while still maintaining the axle torque at the immediate torque request .

In various implementations the predicted torque request may be based on the driver torque request . The immediate torque request may be less than the predicted torque request such as when the driver torque request is causing wheel slip on an icy surface. In such a case a traction control system not shown may request a reduction via the immediate torque request and the ECM reduces the torque produced by the engine system to the immediate torque request . However the ECM controls the engine system so that the engine system can quickly resume producing the predicted torque request once the wheel slip stops.

The axle torque arbitration module may output the predicted torque request and the immediate torque request to a propulsion torque arbitration module . In various implementations the axle torque arbitration module may output the predicted and immediate torque requests and to the hybrid optimization module .

The hybrid optimization module may determine how much torque should be produced by the engine and how much torque should be produced by the electric motor . The hybrid optimization module may then output modified predicted and immediate torque requests and e.g. in Nm respectively to the propulsion torque arbitration module . In various implementations the hybrid optimization module may be implemented in the hybrid control module .

The predicted and immediate torque requests received by the propulsion torque arbitration module are converted from an axle torque domain torque at the wheels into a propulsion torque domain torque at the crankshaft . This conversion may occur before after as part of or in place of the hybrid optimization module .

The propulsion torque arbitration module arbitrates between propulsion torque requests and the predicted and immediate propulsion torque requests resulting from the conversion of the received predicted and immediate torque requests into the propulsion torque domain. The propulsion torque arbitration module generates an arbitrated predicted torque request e.g. in Nm and an arbitrated immediate torque request e.g. in Nm as a result of the arbitration. The arbitrated torque requests and may be generated by selecting a winning request from among received torque requests. Alternatively or additionally the arbitrated torque requests and may be generated by modifying one of the received torque requests based on another one or more of the received torque requests.

The reserves loads module receives the arbitrated predicted and immediate torque requests and . The reserves loads module may adjust the arbitrated predicted and immediate torque requests and to create a torque reserve and or to compensate for one or more loads. The reserves loads module then outputs adjusted predicted and immediate torque requests and e.g. in Nm to the actuation module .

In general terms the difference between the adjusted immediate torque request and the generally higher adjusted predicted torque request can be referred to as a torque reserve e.g. in Nm . The torque reserve may represent the amount of additional torque above the adjusted immediate torque request that the engine system can begin to produce with minimal delay. The torque reserve can absorb sudden increases in required torque. For example only sudden loads imposed by an air conditioner or a power steering pump may be counteracted by using all or a part of the torque reserve by increasing the adjusted immediate torque request .

Another example use of a torque reserve is to reduce fluctuations in slow actuator values. Because of their relatively slow speed varying slow actuator values may produce control instability. In addition slow actuators may include mechanical parts which may draw more power and or wear more quickly when moved frequently. Creating a sufficient torque reserve allows changes in desired torque to be made by varying fast actuators via the adjusted immediate torque request while maintaining the values of the slow actuators.

The reserves loads module may also create or increase a torque reserve in anticipation of a future load such as power steering pump operation or engagement of an air conditioning A C compressor clutch. The torque reserve for engagement of the A C compressor clutch may be created when the driver first requests air conditioning. The reserves loads module may increase the adjusted predicted torque request while leaving the adjusted immediate torque request unchanged to produce the torque reserve. Then when the A C compressor clutch engages the reserves loads module may increase the adjusted immediate torque request by the estimated load of the A C compressor clutch.

The actuation module receives the adjusted predicted and immediate torque requests and . The actuation module determines how the adjusted predicted and immediate torque requests and will be achieved. In various implementations the actuation module may generate an air torque request e.g. in Nm based on the adjusted predicted torque request . The air torque request may be set equal to the adjusted predicted torque request setting air flow so that the adjusted predicted torque request can be achieved by changes to other actuators such as the spark actuator module and or the fuel actuator module .

The air control module determines desired actuator values based on the air torque request . For example only the air control module may determine a desired manifold absolute pressure MAP a desired throttle position and or a desired mass of air per cylinder APC based on the air torque request .

The actuation module may also generate a spark torque request and a fuel torque request . The actuation module may generate the spark torque request and the fuel torque request based on the adjusted immediate torque request . The spark torque request may be used by the spark control module to determine how much if any to retard the spark timing from a calibrated spark timing. The calibrated spark timing may vary based on various engine operating conditions.

For example only a torque relationship may be inverted to solve for a desired spark timing . For a given torque request T the desired spark timing S may be determined based on APC AF OT 1 

When the spark timing is set to the calibrated spark timing the resulting torque may be as close to a maximum best torque MBT as possible. MBT refers to the maximum engine output torque that is generated for a given air flow as spark advance is increased while using fuel having an octane rating greater than a predetermined octane rating and using stoichiometric fueling. The spark advance at which this maximum torque occurs is referred to as an MBT spark timing. The calibrated spark timing may differ slightly from MBT spark timing because of for example fuel quality such as when lower octane fuel is used and environmental factors. The engine output torque at the calibrated spark timing may therefore be less than MBT.

The fuel control module may control the amount of fuel provided to the cylinders based on the fuel torque request . During normal operation of a spark ignition engine the fuel control module may operate in an air lead mode in which the fuel control module attempts to maintain a stoichiometric air fuel ratio by controlling fueling based on air flow. For example the fuel control module may determine a fuel mass that will yield stoichiometric combustion with the current APC. The fuel control module may instruct the fuel actuator module via a fueling rate to inject this fuel mass into each activated cylinder. The fuel control module also controls timing of fuel injection and number of pulses of fuel used for each fuel injection.

The air control module may determine the desired throttle position based on the air torque request . The air control module may output the desired throttle position to a throttle control module . The throttle control module may generate a desired pulse width modulation PWM signal using closed loop control based on the desired throttle position . The throttle actuator module actuates the throttle valve based on the desired PWM signal . While PWM is shown and discussed the throttle control module may control the throttle actuator module using another suitable type of signal.

The air control module may output the desired MAP to the boost scheduling module . The boost scheduling module uses the desired MAP to control the boost actuator module . The boost actuator module then controls one or more turbochargers e.g. the turbocharger including the turbine and the compressor and or superchargers.

The air control module determines the desired APC based on the air torque request . For example only the torque relationship can also be inverted to solve for the desired APC . For a given torque request T the desired APC APC may be determined based on APC AF OT 2 

The valve control module determines a desired intake valve timing for a next cylinder in a predetermined firing order of the cylinders as a function of the desired APC . The function may be embodied as an equation and or as a lookup table. Additionally or alternatively the valve control module may determine the desired intake valve timing for the next cylinder in the predetermined firing order of the cylinders a function of a desired amount of trapped residual exhaust gas.

The valve control module also determines a desired exhaust valve timing . The valve control module may determine the desired exhaust valve timing as a function of the desired APC . Additionally or alternatively the valve control module may determine the desired exhaust valve timing for the next cylinder in the predetermined firing order of the cylinders a function of the desired amount of trapped residual exhaust gas. In various implementations the valve control module may determine the desired exhaust valve timing and determine the desired intake valve timing based on the desired exhaust valve timing or vice versa.

A valve timing may include an open timing e.g. in crank angle degrees CAD of a valve e.g. an intake valve or an exhaust valve and a closing timing of the valve e.g. in CAD . The period between the opening and closing timings of a valve may be referred to as valve duration. In other words valve duration may refer to the period that the valve is open during a combustion cycle.

The fuel control module the spark control module the throttle control module and the valve control module may make control decisions based on a desired ignition mode . A mode control module may set the desired ignition mode to one of the SI mode and the HCCI mode at a given time. While the mode control module will be discussed as setting the desired ignition mode to one of two discrete modes the SI mode or the HCCI mode the mode control module may also set the desired ignition mode to one or more mixed SI HCCI modes where combustion includes both SI and HCCI combustion components. For example in mixed SI HCCI combustion combustion may start with SI flame propagation and end with HCCI spontaneous combustion of the remaining charge. The mode control module may set the desired ignition mode to a mixed mode for achieving mixed SI HCCI combustion with desired characteristics for the SI combustion component and the HCCI combustion component. Accordingly as used herein transitioning from SI mode to the HCCI mode may refer to both transitions in the desired ignition mode from the SI mode to the HCCI mode and to transitions to operating with more HCCI combustion and less SI combustion. Transitioning from the HCCI mode to the SI mode may accordingly refer to both transitions in the desired ignition mode from the HCCI mode to the SI mode and to transitions to operating with more SI combustion and less HCCI combustion.

Spark may be supplied for combustion when the desired ignition mode is set to the SI mode. Spark may be disabled or may remain enabled when the desired ignition mode is set to the HCCI mode. In various implementations spark may be provided at some or all times while the desired ignition mode is set to the HCCI mode.

The mode control module may set the desired ignition mode to one of the SI mode and the HCCI mode at a given time based on an engine load an engine speed and or one or more other suitable parameters. For example only the mode control module may set the desired ignition mode to the SI mode when the engine load is greater than a first predetermined engine load. The mode control module may set the desired ignition mode to the HCCI mode when the engine load is less than a second predetermined engine load. The first and second predetermined engine loads may be the same or may be different. For example the first predetermined engine load may be equal to the second predetermined engine load when transitioning from the HCCI mode to the SI mode and the first predetermined engine load may be greater than the second engine load when transitioning from the SI mode to the HCCI mode. The engine load may be determined based on an APC such as the current APC and or one or more other suitable parameters. The engine speed may be generated for example based on measurements from the crankshaft position sensor .

When the desired ignition mode is set to the HCCI mode the valve control module regulates exhaust valve closing timing via the desired exhaust valve timing of each of the cylinders based on a first predetermined timing. For example the valve control module may set the exhaust valve closing timing of each of the cylinders to the first predetermined timing when the desired ignition mode is set to the HCCI mode. The valve control module may selectively adjust i.e. advance or retard the exhaust valve closing timing from the first predetermined timing based on one or more engine operating parameters while the desired ignition mode is set to the HCCI mode.

When the desired ignition mode is set to the SI mode the valve control module regulates exhaust valve closing timing of each of the cylinders based on a second predetermined timing. For example the valve control module may set the exhaust valve closing timing of each of the cylinders to the second predetermined timing when the desired ignition mode is set to the SI mode. The valve control module may selectively adjust the exhaust valve closing timing from the second predetermined timing based on one or more engine operating parameters while the desired ignition mode is set to the SI mode. The second predetermined timing is later than i.e. retarded from the first predetermined timing.

When the desired ignition mode transitions from the HCCI mode to the SI mode the valve control module may from one engine cycle e.g. the current engine cycle to the next switch to regulating exhaust valve closing timing of each of the cylinders based on the second predetermined timing. More specifically the valve control module may control exhaust valve closing timing based on the first predetermining timing for the HCCI mode during one engine cycle and control exhaust valve closing timing based on the second predetermined timing for the SI mode during the next engine cycle.

The opposite may be true when the desired ignition mode transitions from the SI mode to the HCCI mode. When the desired ignition mode transitions from the SI mode to the HCCI mode the valve control module may from one engine cycle to the next switch to regulating exhaust valve closing timing of each of the cylinders based on the first predetermined timing.

Such a step change in exhaust valve closing timing between consecutive engine cycles however affects the amount of residual exhaust gas trapped within each cylinder. The amount of residual exhaust gas within the cylinders affects the amount of air that can be drawn into the cylinders. Changes in the amount of residual exhaust gas and or the APC may cause changes in engine torque output.

In response to a transition in the desired ignition mode the valve control module adjusts exhaust valve closing timing incrementally. The valve control module may adjust exhaust valve closing timing for example by a predetermined amount e.g. angle in degrees per firing event or by the predetermined amount per engine cycle. The predetermined amount may be a fixed value or may be a variable value. Adjusting exhaust valve closing timing incrementally may minimize changes in engine torque output during transitions from HCCI operation to SI operation and vice versa.

When adjusting exhaust valve closing timing per firing event the exhaust valve closing timing will be adjusted cylinder by cylinder in the firing order of the cylinders. In other words an exhaust valve closing timing will be used for one cylinder and the exhaust valve closing timing will be adjusted by the predetermined amount and used for the next cylinder in the firing order of the cylinders. The exhaust valve closing timing will be adjusted by the predetermined amount for a second time and used for the next cylinder in the firing order and so on.

When adjusting exhaust valve closing timing per engine cycle the exhaust valve closing timing used for all of the cylinders will be adjusted once per engine cycle. In other words an exhaust valve closing timing will be used for all of the cylinders during one engine cycle and the exhaust valve closing timing will be adjusted by the predetermined amount and used for all of the cylinders during the next engine cycle. The exhaust valve closing timing will be adjusted by the predetermined amount for a second time and used for all of the cylinders during the next engine cycle and so on.

In response to a transition in the desired ignition mode from the HCCI mode to the SI mode the valve control module incrementally retards exhaust valve closing timing from the first predetermining timing toward or to the second predetermined timing using a first predetermined amount e.g. angle in degrees . The valve control module may retard the exhaust valve closing timing by the first predetermined amount for example per firing event or per engine cycle.

In response to a transition in the desired ignition mode from the SI mode to the HCCI mode the valve control module incrementally advances exhaust valve closing timing from the first predetermining timing toward and or to the second predetermined timing using a second predetermined amount e.g. angle in degrees . The valve control module may advance the exhaust valve closing timing by the second predetermined amount for example per firing event or per engine cycle. The first and second predetermined amounts may be the same or may be different.

Referring now to a flowchart depicting an example method of controlling exhaust valve closing timing for a transition from HCCI mode to SI mode is presented. Control may begin at when the desired ignition mode is set to the HCCI mode. At control may determine whether the desired ignition mode transitioned from the HCCI mode to the SI mode. If false control may end. If true at control incrementally retards exhaust valve closing timing toward or to the second predetermined timing by the first predetermined amount. Control may retard exhaust valve closing timing by the first predetermined amount for example per firing event or per engine cycle. Retarding exhaust valve closing timing reduces residual exhaust gas that will be trapped within a cylinder thereby allowing a greater amount of air to be drawn into the cylinder during the next engine cycle.

Referring now to a flowchart depicting an example method of controlling exhaust valve closing timing for a transition from SI mode to the HCCI mode is presented. Control may begin at when the desired ignition mode is set to the SI mode. At control may determine whether the desired ignition mode transitioned from the SI mode to the HCCI mode. If false control may end. If true at control incrementally advances exhaust valve closing timing toward or to the first predetermined timing by the second predetermined amount. Control may advance exhaust valve closing timing by the second predetermined amount for example per firing event or per engine cycle. Advancing exhaust valve closing timing increases residual exhaust gas that will be trapped within a cylinder thereby decreasing the amount of air that will be drawn into the cylinder during the next engine cycle.

The foregoing description is merely illustrative in nature and is in no way intended to limit the disclosure its application or uses. The broad teachings of the disclosure can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while this disclosure includes particular examples the true scope of the disclosure should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent upon a study of the drawings the specification and the following claims. For purposes of clarity the same reference numbers will be used in the drawings to identify similar elements. As used herein the phrase at least one of A B and C should be construed to mean a logical A or B or C using a non exclusive logical OR. It should be understood that one or more steps within a method may be executed in different order or concurrently without altering the principles of the present disclosure.

As used herein the term module may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a combinational logic circuit a field programmable gate array FPGA a processor shared dedicated or group that executes code other suitable hardware components that provide the described functionality or a combination of some or all of the above such as in a system on chip. The term module may include memory shared dedicated or group that stores code executed by the processor.

The term code as used above may include software firmware and or microcode and may refer to programs routines functions classes and or objects. The term shared as used above means that some or all code from multiple modules may be executed using a single shared processor. In addition some or all code from multiple modules may be stored by a single shared memory. The term group as used above means that some or all code from a single module may be executed using a group of processors. In addition some or all code from a single module may be stored using a group of memories.

The apparatuses and methods described herein may be implemented by one or more computer programs executed by one or more processors. The computer programs include processor executable instructions that are stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable medium. The computer programs may also include stored data. Non limiting examples of the non transitory tangible computer readable medium are nonvolatile memory magnetic storage and optical storage.

