---

title: Methods and systems for robot personality development
abstract: Methods and systems for robot and user interaction are provided to generate a personality for the robot. A robot may access a user device to determine or identify information about a user, and the robot may be configured to tailor a personality for interaction with the user based on the identified information. A robot may further receive data associated with the user to identify the user, such as using speech or face recognition. The robot may provide a personalized interaction or response to the user based on the determined information of the user. In some examples, a robot's personality or personalization can be transferred from one robot to another robot, or information stored on one robot can be shared with another robot over the cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996429&OS=08996429&RS=08996429
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08996429
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120430
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 483 295 filed on May 6 2011 and to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 596 026 filed on Feb. 7 2012 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to a robot imbued with a personality or personalities. In particular but without limitation the disclosure provides for a robot that operates with personality attributes and related capabilities drawn from cloud computing capacities. Personality may be thought of as personification in the sense of human characteristics or qualities attributed to a non human thing. A robot can be programmed to provide a desired look as well as interactability for the robot which may be subject to change by the user or by the robot itself such that the robot interface is customized to provide a desired personality for the robot. The robot personality is further disclosed as being sharable across a number of robots in varying locations.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud. 

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

In one example a user may open a browser and connect to a host of web servers that run user interface software that collect commands from the user and interpret the commands into commands on the servers. The servers may handle the computing and can either store or retrieve information from database servers or file servers and display an updated page to the user. Through cloud computing data across multiple servers can be synchronized around the world allowing for collaborative work on one file or project from multiple users around the world for example.

This disclosure provides methods and systems for robot user interaction where for instance a robot may be programmed to operate according to a specific profile or personality for a given user and may have a certain look e.g. visual interface and feel in the way of attributes e.g. data stored controlling actions which are unique or even idiosyncratic to that robot. The personality could be multifarious in the sense of multiple personalities which may be selected by the robot according to cues or circumstances or a personality could be selected by a user a human . The robot may be programmed to take on the personality of real world people e.g. behave based on the user a deceased loved one a celebrity and so on so as to take on character traits of people to be emulated by a robot.

The robot personality may also be modifiable within a base personality construct i.e. a default persona to provide states or moods representing transitory conditions of happiness fear surprise perplexion e.g. the Woody Allen robot thoughtfulness derision e.g. the Rodney Dangerfield robot and so forth. These moods can again be triggered by cues or circumstances detected by the robot or elicited on command.

The personality and state may be shared with other robots so as to clone this robot within another device or devices. In this manner a user may travel to another city and download within a robot in that city another skin the personality and state matching the user s home location robot. The robot personality thereby becomes transportable or transferable.

The present disclosure in one form provides a customizable robot capable of having personalized attributes or characteristics. These may be conversational interactions audio as well as visual stance movements twitches facial movements . The customizable robot may further have the ability for improvisation or extrapolation based upon the selected personality using clues from the human s interacting with the robot or drawn from surroundings and circumstances. This interaction can be passive i.e. responding to the human user as well as proactive in the sense that the robot initiates some conduct or interaction.

The disclosure herein further provides a software system and related hardware including a basic application robot and an interface for data and or command input for developing or loading a personality or personalities for that application. In another embodiment the disclosure provides for a robot that is transferable or dissociable from whatever its original physical manifestation may be such that it can be sent over a transmission network e.g. the Internet and downloaded materialized or extracted dematerialized in different robotic bodies or skins . Thus the robot personality may be cloned and readily transported or stored for that matter. In a sense this provides for a kind of teleportation capability for the robot.

Any of the methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions of the method. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.

The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is wired to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In yet further examples any type of devices may be used or configured as means for performing functions of any of the methods described herein or any portions of the methods described herein .

In one aspect an example method includes a first device associated with a robotic apparatus obtaining information from a second device and the information relates to communication between a user and the second device. In addition the first device is configured to interact with the user. The method also includes in response to obtaining the information the first device processes that information for an estimated personality and based on the estimated personality the first device modifies the robotic apparatus to provide the personality.

In another aspect an example device comprises a robotic apparatus or presence having a processor and sensors to perform the functions of obtaining information from a second device wherein the information relates in part to communication between a user and the second device. In addition the information is also obtained from the vicinity of the robotic presence. In response to obtaining the information an estimated personality is generated and based on the estimated personality the personality is adopted or incorporated in the robot presence.

In another aspect an example system includes a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein instructions executable by a computing device to perform functions of obtaining information regarding a potential personality for interaction with a human. In response to obtaining the information the exemplary system performs the functions of estimating a personality and based on the estimated personality incorporating the estimated personality into an interface which interacts with a user.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the Figures and the following Detailed Description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying Figures which form a part hereof. In the Figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure includes inter alia methods and systems for robot and user interaction over the cloud. Within examples cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A robot may be any device that has a computing ability and interacts with its surroundings with an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A client device may be configured as a robot including various sensors and devices in the forms of modules and different modules may be added or removed from robot depending on requirements. In some examples a robot may be configured to receive a second device such as mobile phone that may be configured to function as an accessory or a brain of the robot.

In examples described herein a robot may interact with the cloud to perform any number of actions such as to share information with other cloud computing devices. Within examples a robot may interact with a user in a manner that is based upon many types of received information. A robot may access a user device to determine or identify information about a user or related to the user and the robot may be configured to tailor a method of interaction with the user based on the identified information. A robot may further receive data associated with the user to identify the user such as using speech or face recognition. The robot may provide a personalized interaction or response to the user based on the determined information of the user. In further examples a robot may receive inputs from a user through touch and associate the inputs with a personality for interaction with that particular person.

In some examples the robot s personality personification or personalization can be reflected in a default profile which can then be modified. In particular the robot may gain access to information regarding the user the immediate environment or circumstances through a cloud and or a network. The robot thus would be linked to a cloud to gain access to information stored in the cloud extracting that information depending upon analysis of inputs being received by the robot.

In some instances the default user profile may simply be referred to as a user profile. Further the user profile may be linked to other profiles that the user has created as on social networking sites such that the robot can access up to date and accurate information regarding the user. The user profile may include information corresponding to the user s personality history lifestyle preferences and or predispositions. The robot may use such information when interacting with the user.

Referring now to the Figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more of fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the infrastructure .

The system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robot and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robot based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot. Example sensors may include smoke sensors light sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones speakers gyroscope accelerometer a camera radar capacitive sensors and touch sensors.

The client device may also have components or devices that allow the client device to interact with its environment. For example the client device may have mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms that enable the client device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the client device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from a client device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the client device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the client device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using a mobile phone to download the routine from the cloud and when the mobile phone is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action.

In some examples the client device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the Internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the client device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

The mountable device may further be configured to maximize runtime usage of the robot e.g. if the robot could learn what happens to cause the user to turn the toy off or set the toy down the device may be configured to perform functions to counteract such occurrences .

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software such as the robotic development platform ESRP from Evolution Robotics and MRDS Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio and other examples also include ROSJAVA. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework .

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send data to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data from the cloud. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the Internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be compiled into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of an object and upload the picture to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the picture and provide data to all the robots connected to the cloud about the recognized object as well as possibly about other characteristics e.g. metadata of the recognized object such as a location size weight color. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of an object in a photo uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people other robots. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. For example the robot may traverse a pathway and encounter an obstacle and can inform the other robots and through the cloud of a location of the obstacle. Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. In another example the robot can download data indicating images seen by the other robots and to help the robot identify an object using various views e.g. in instances in which the robots and have captured images of the objects from a different perspective .

In still another example the robot may build a map of an area and the robot can download the map to have knowledge of the area. Similarly the robot could update the map created by the robot with new information about the area e.g. the hallway now has boxes or other obstacles or with new information collected from sensors that the robot may not have had e.g. the robot may record and add temperature data to the map if the robot did not have a temperature sensor . Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

Sharing and adaptation capabilities enable a variety of applications based on a variety of inputs data received from the robots and . In a specific example mapping of a physical location such as providing data regarding a history of where a robot has been can be provided. Another number or type of indicators may be recorded to facilitate mapping navigational functionality of the robots and e.g. a scuff mark on a wall can be one of many cues that a robot may record and then rely upon later to orient itself .

In one example the cloud may include store or provide access to a database of information related to objects and the database may be accessible by all the robots and . The database may include information identifying objects and details of the objects e.g. mass properties shape instructions for use any detail that may be associated with the object that can be accessed by the robots and to perform object recognition. As an example information regarding use of an object can include e.g. such as for a phone how to pick up a handset how to answer the phone location of buttons how to dial.

In addition the database may include information about objects that can be used to distinguish objects. For example the database may include general information regarding an object e.g. such as a computer and additionally information regarding a specific computer e.g. a model number details or technical specifications of a specific model . Each object may include information in the database including an object name object details object distinguishing characteristics or a tuple space for objects that can be accessed. Each object may further include information in the database in an ordered list for example. In further examples the database may include a global unique identifier GUID for objects identified in the database e.g. to enable distinguishing between specific objects and the GUID may be associated with any characteristics or information describing the object. Thus a robot may be configured to access the database to receive information generally distinguishing objects e.g. a baseball vs. a melon and to receive information that may distinguish between specific objects e.g. two different computers .

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base stored in the cloud .

Thus in some examples robots may share new or learned behaviors through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities or behaviors resulting in a shared knowledge base of behaviors and heuristics for object interactions e.g. a robot app store . Specifically a given robot may perform actions and build a map of an area and then the robot can upload the data to the cloud to share this knowledge with all other robots. In this example a transportation of the given robot s consciousness can be made through the cloud from one robot to another e.g. robot Bob builds a map and the knowledge of Bob can be downloaded onto another robot to receive knowledge of the map .

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database .

As mentioned robots or any client computing device may interact with the cloud and users to perform any number of functions. Example functions are described below.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes capture an image of an object. In an example a robot may capture many images of objects using any number of sensors such as a camera still pictures or video feeds infrared projectors.

At block the method includes capture information associated with characteristics about the object. For example a robot may optionally determine or record a weight dimensions a texture color or any type of physical attribute of the object.

As another example in an instance in which the robot may communicate with the object the robot may capture additional data of the object such as by accessing memory of the object. For instance if the object has communication capabilities such as WiFi Bluetooth infrared or other wireless or wired methods the robot may communicate with the object to determine any type of data. Additionally the object may have serial parallel ports through which the robot may communicate with the object.

At block the method includes query a computing device with the captured image and or information. As an example the robot may query the cloud with a captured image by sending the captured image to the cloud and requesting information about the image such as an identity of the image or information associated with characteristics of objects in the image. Alternatively the robot may query another robot directly to request information about the object such as an image of an alternate view of the object.

At block the method includes receiving information or retrieving information associated with the object. For example the robot may receive data from the cloud indicating an identity of an object in the image or other information related to or associated with characteristics about the object. In some examples the cloud may perform object recognition on the uploaded image or video. For example if a picture was taken in a living room the cloud may be able to identify a television. The cloud may even be able to recognize an exact model of television and provide information regarding instructions for use of the television.

At block the method includes storing the received information for future recognitions. For example after receiving the information from the cloud the robot would be able to recognize the object in the future enabling the robot to learn and adapt.

At block the method includes performing an action based on the received information. The action may vary based on a type of received information or the query that is presented by the robot. As an example the robot may query the cloud to identify an object and details of the object to enable the robot to interact with the object.

As an additional or alternative method for performing object recognition objects may be tagged with a type of identifier e.g. radio frequency identification RFID chip near field communication chip NFC bar code so that a robot may include an application enabling the robot to identify the object based on the identifier. The identifier may provide information about the object including an identification details of the object mass color type brand a location of the object. In some examples objects may emit beacons that can be received by the robots to determine existence identification location of the object. In this example a physical environment may be instrumented with beacons in forms of NFC RFID QR codes to enable a robot to localize and identify objects. Beacons may be stationary beacons or moving beacons RFID in an employee s ID badge to perform tracking of objects.

In some examples the method to facilitate object recognition may be a higher level service e.g. higher in a software stack such that details and specifics for how to recognize an object may be performed by the cloud. The robot may be configured to perform actions functions based on a result of object recognition rather than or in addition to performing functions regarding recognizing an object. As an example using the method the robot may execute software to perform function calls such as GetObject which may return information associated with an object e.g. a cereal box or PickUpObject which may cause the robot to pick up the object. Enabling function calls and operation of robots through the cloud facilitates control and operation of the robot without having to control or operate various sensors mechanical aspects of the robot for example.

In one example an object may include a user. Thus robots may perform user recognition using any of the functions described above.

The user device may be any of a computer desktop or laptop a mobile phone a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer or other mobile computing devices. Still further the user device may include other devices such as a digital video recorder DVR television computing devices or any type of cloud computing device or device with connectivity to the cloud.

The robot may access the user device to determine or identify information about a user and the robot may be configured to tailor a method of interaction with the user based on the identified information. There are many examples of types of information that the robot may access including but not limited to a user s calendar to determine information associated with activities the user performed or was scheduled to perform e.g. who the user met with that day a user s email text messages or other electronic correspondence. Other examples of types of information include identifying recently accessed documents on a computer accessing a user s call log e.g. missed received or dialed calls accessing a user s Internet browser history accessing a user s DVR to determine television viewing schedule.

The robot may use any of the determined or identified information in many different ways to determine a personality to assume. For example the robot may analyze any of the data to determine characters a diction word choice or sentence structure of correspondence and may make an inference of the user s current mood or attitude in order to then select or modify a personality.

Adoption of a personality or some personification attributes could be more direct such as a simple user command to adopt a character by name Be mom Become Gwynneth Adopt persona Beta. The character personality may be a program already stored or it could be something in the cloud. If the later the robot would interact with the cloud to pull sufficient information regarding the new persona to thereby recreate a simulacrum for the robot. The information for the persona could also come from a user device. Such as in response to a Be mom command mom may not be known to the robot. The robot processor can then search user devices for information about mom. 

At block the method includes access a user device. For example a robot may access a user device e.g. mobile phone PC electronic picture frame either directly or indirectly through a cloud.

At block the method includes determining information associated with the user. For example the robot may access information on a user s mobile phone such as a calendar application email call logs. The robot may further access contact data user accounts third party applications on the mobile phone to determine information associated with the user. The robot may further access pictures from a user s mobile phone or a front facing camera on a mobile phone to access a current picture or view of the mobile phone . A user may opt in to allow the robot to determine access to information and the user may indicate a preference or priority of information for which the robot may access.

At block the method includes making an inference regarding a personality. For example the robot may be able to determine mom s voice from recordings and further how the user interacts with mom from text messages and recordings. A photograph of mom may result in a display for the monitor of .

The robot may make the inference or selection in real time using artificial intelligence based on an analysis of the data.

At block the method includes applying the persona determined or retrieved and perform an interaction with the user based thereon.

The robot may access a database to determine an action to perform or to determine how to perform an interaction with the user based on the user s input.

The method in may be performed by the robot sending a query to the cloud requesting information indicating or associated with a mood of the user. In this regard the cloud or component in the cloud may perform actions including accessing a user device determining information associated with the user from the user s device making an inference regarding a desired persona from the user s mood. Subsequently the cloud may provide a response to the robot s query indicating the persona indicia or indicating information associated with the persona that the robot may use to make inferences regarding the persona. Thus actions or functions of the method may be performed by the robot the cloud or components of the cloud in a distributed manner. Alternatively all actions or functions of the method may be performed locally by the robot.

Still as another alternative example actions or functions of the method may be performed by the robot which may make queries to the cloud to facilitate performing the functions. For instance the robot may make the inference regarding the mood of the user however the robot may query the cloud to request an analysis of an email and based on the analysis the robot may make the inference regarding the mood of the user and a resulting personality to adopt.

At block the method includes a first device obtaining information from a second device. The first device may be a robot and the second device may be a device of a user e.g. a user s mobile phone . The information may relate to communication between the user and the second device. Examples include phone calls made by the user emails sent by the user.

In some examples the first device may be configured to interact with the user or environment according to a default profile created for the user. A default user profile may include a database with information corresponding to a user s personality lifestyle preferences and or predispositions. A default user profile may also be synched to a profile on a social networking site such that certain information in the default user profile is provided by the user. In some examples a robot may use a user profile to obtain information from a user device such as a personal computer e.g. a laptop computer and or a tablet computer .

A robot may also obtain information from a user device communicating through a cloud. For example referring to a robot may utilize information in the user profile to interact with a cloud such as cloud shown in system . Alternatively a robot may access cloud to access the user profile stored on cloud . A user profile may include information identifying the mobile device and the computer each coupled to the cloud . The user profile may also have information indicating when the user interacts with mobile device and computer . A robot may use the user profile to determine when to interact with the cloud and or with other robots such as robot client directly to obtain communication between the user and mobile device and computer .

At block the method includes in response to obtaining the information the first device estimating a persona. In some examples the robot may analyze the user s interaction with a user device according to a user profile and make an estimate of the desired personality. In particular the user profile may be a created and stored as a database including specific characters diction word choice and or sentence structures of the user s correspondence with the user device which can be indicative of an estimated personality. The robot may be able to take specific language identified above from the user device e.g. a personal computer a mobile telephone a tablet computer and or a landline telephone and search the database for a matching personality trait. For example a robot may identify a combination of words such as I m so tired and or we re absolutely exhausted in a user s post found on a social networking site to establish a compatible personality. The robot may search for these characters diction word choice and or sentence structures in a user profile stored in a database or multiple databases and find corresponding features to generate the appropriate persona.

In some examples the robot may analyze a user s interaction with a user device to determine a context and estimate a personality. A context may be determined based on one or more context signals. A context signal may be any signal that provides a measurement or otherwise provides information pertaining to a state or an environment associated with a user. Many types of information from many different sources may be used as context signals or provide information from which context signals may be determined. For some examples a context signal may include information relating to a time of day a location weather and or a particular event. Similar to specific characters diction word choice and or sentence structures that may be stored in a database with respective moods contexts may also be associated with specific indicators being detected by the robot. Those skilled in the art will understand that the above list of possible context signals and sources of context information is not intended to be limiting and that other context signals and or sources of context information are possible in addition or in the alternative to those listed above. Further it should be understood that a robot with a computing ability configured to interact with an ambient environment using an actuation capability may be able to identify any of the context signals provided in the list above.

In some occurrences a robot may be configured to identify a context of the user s location to estimate a personality. For example a robot may utilize location services available on the user s cell phone and retrieve information corresponding to the user s location. From this the robot may determine that the user is at a car dealership and may then adopt the personality of a negotiator for a new car purchase. Alternatively the robot may also identify the user s location when the user operates a personal computer or tablet computer with location based platforms and programs providing for the ability to locate the computer on a geographical map. Responsive to determining the location of the user the robot may look up corresponding details associated with the user s location in a user profile. The robot may use this information to estimate the appropriate personality that may be useful.

In some examples a robot may identify a context of the user s location and access a cloud to estimate a personality. For example the robot may identify a user s location through the user s interaction with a laptop computer with similar location platforms as described in the example above. The robot may determine the user s location to be in the user s office and access an office database located on a cloud to estimate a personal assistant personal for a user. Further the office database may be updated by multiple other devices such as other robots interacting with the user. In particular for this example the robot may query the office database and identify a high number of uncompleted tasks listed in the user s schedule and compare the number of uncompleted tasks to other records in the office database indicating prior situations and how the user dealt with the situation based on the number of uncompleted tasks. The robot may use this information to estimate the personality best suited for the user to the tasks at hand cajoling strident understanding but firm hopeful .

In some examples a robot may use nearby objects to determine a context of the environment surrounding the user and estimate a personality. Further the robot may operate with contextual awareness such that a robot may search certain objects in a particular scene to identify the location of the robot and user. For instance the robot may identify the user s refrigerator and query the refrigerator in a user profile such as compiled in a cloud network. That may include an inventory of the contents and expiration dates of products in the refrigerator. The robot may then adopt a persona of the user s mother and indicate that it is time to clean out the refrigerator honey. 

In still another example a context of the time of day may be used to estimate the personality to match the user. At night a robot may be configured to move more slowly and make less noise to be quiet than as compared to operations during the day. The robot may recognize an alarm application that the user is programming on a cell phone. The robot may determine an associated context of the time of day based on a context stored in a user profile. The context of the time of day may further map to historical data records indicating that the context is past the user s normal bed time. In another example in the morning the robot may recognize the user s alarm going off on the cell phone and may determine from prior data that the user is not a morning person and map to the user s mood for need coffee. The robot may responsively offer coffee to a user as opposed to a soft drink with little or no conversation.

In another example the robot may identify a context of the weather and estimate the personality to go along with the weather. For instance the robot may access weather applications and determine that the weather includes rain in the forecast. The robot may look up the context of rain in a weather table found in a user profile which may be found on a cloud network . Search results may indicate data records corresponding to prior results that may all indicate that the user is grumpy when the weather includes rain. The user profile may be for the robot to then perform uplifting tunes from Annie to evoke positive reinforcement responses from the user when it rains. Using the information in the user profile the robot may adopt a butler persona e.g. Bruce Wayne s Alfred and nicely offer an umbrella to the user as the user is leaving for work or based on what the user is wearing the robot may offer suggestions to the user based on the weather. Thus the robot may take a context of weather into account when estimating a personality.

As still another example a mood recognition database or information from a mood recognition databank may be provided to a robot or may be made accessible by the robot to enable the robot to perform a search for personality indicators locally. As an example if a robot is in a work setting a work database for mood recognition may be provided to the robot to enable a personality recognition process to be performed more quickly than having the robot search within a database for all settings. Any situational or contextual information of the robot may be used to select a persona database to provide to the robot. As other examples a time of year context of a conversation environment may be used individually or in combination to select a persona database to provide to the robot.

In some examples the robot may identify a language of communication between a user and a user device to estimate the mood of the user. The language may be looked up in a user profile on a server to identify a specific context. Ah we are speaking French today so a French persona is adopted. Further the context may map to a custom of the user which may further be associated with a particular language Ah we are wearing our French beret today. 

In some examples a robot may utilize the user profile to determine a user s relationship with another robot and estimate the user s desired personality based on the user interacting with the other robot. For example the user profile may be created in a database that indicates the user s mood when interacting with certain robots. For instance referring back to the robot may search the database and find that the user is typically frustrated after interacting with robot . A robot may anticipate and or learn when the user interacts with robot and estimate the appropriate personality to adopt. For example the robot may learn that the user is interacting with robot and this is unlikely to end well. The robot may update the user profile to indicate that the user will likely be in a frustrated mood and adopt a personality to deal with the frustration. Alternatively or in addition the robot may inform other robots directly as shown in with robot .

At block the method includes modifying the default user profile to incorporate the estimated personality so as to provide a modified persona. This can be a transitory modification or something more permanent. For example the robot may prepare food for the user using peanut oil. The user who may be allergic to peanut based foods may eat the meal and have an allergic reaction. The user may further scold the robot for cooking the meal with peanut oil. Scolding may be considered a negative feedback response where the user is directing a negative reaction toward the robot for an action that the robot committed. On the other hand a positive feedback response may be a positive reaction toward the robot for an action that the robot committed. In this example above the robot may permanently modify information in the user profile to include the user s allergic reaction to peanut and avoid anything to do with peanuts in the future.

In some examples the default user profile may be modified by the user and the robot. For example the user may be allergic to mangos and may update a user profile to include such information. Simultaneously a robot may update the user profile to include that the user is also allergic to peanuts. When the dining fare is French cooking the robot may be queued to adopt the persona of Julia Child.

In some examples various robots may share information on a cloud to estimate the mood of the user and maintain a single user profile. For example referring to robots and may provide updates to the user profile simultaneously. In some instances there may be one primary input point to avoid conflicting information amongst differing estimated moods provided by multiple robots. For example robot may be the only robot with write privileges to a user profile stored in the database . The other robots and may only have read privileges and may be limited to requesting changes to the user profile. A request may be processed by robot through a logic sequence to determine whether or not grant such the request.

In some examples conflicting information may be gathered amongst multiple robots and this may lead to conflicting requests to modify the personality. Upon recognizing a conflict the robot may trigger a sequence of events to gain more information from the user before making any modifications to the user profile. For example robot may determine conflicting estimated personality indicators from robot and and responsively instruct robot to interact with the user to help estimate the desired persona.

In some examples the user profile may be created specifically for a particular user. The user profile may include a default user profile which may have a similar structure as the default user profile discussed for . In some examples the default user profile may include user information which may correspond to the user s personality lifestyle possibly including the user s profession preferences such as to high protein foods and or predispositions perhaps reflecting that the user is allergic to peanuts . For instance the user information may be collected as multiple tables in a database. Each category such as the user s personality lifestyle and preferences may be maintained in a separate table with multiple fields describing each category further. In addition multiple records may be kept and added to as more information regarding the user is obtained.

In some examples the user information may also include the user s schedule indicating when the user is working and when the user available to communicate with a device. The user s schedule may be used to anticipate when the user is likely to communicate with a device. In some instances the user information may include when the user typically communicates with devices certain devices such as personal computers tablets and or other robots. Such information may not only be useful in anticipating the user s communication but also with predicting the particular device the user may communicate with. Furthermore the user information may include information identifying each device that a user has communicated with and how to obtain information from these devices through cloud networks while using specific interfaces protocols communication links and or other networks. For example the user information may include the IP address of the laptop when participating in a computer network such that the host or network interface may be identified and its location may be determined.

In some examples a robot may estimate a personality for the user and incorporate an estimated persona with the default user profile to provide a modified user profile . Estimated personality may include a context and corresponding mood identification data . In some instance the context may include characters diction word choice and or sentence structures of the user s correspondence with the user device. Furthermore the estimated mood may also include corresponding tasks performed such as task and and associated user reinforcement responses such as user response and respectively. 

In one example a user with the user profile may be at the user s birthday party. The estimated mood may correspond to the context indicating this is the user s birthday celebration. In particular the context may be determined from multiple text messages and emails sent to the user s cell phone wishing the user a happy birthday. The context may further correspond to mood identification data estimating that the user is in a happy mood. The robot may perform the task by adopting a jovial personality. In some cases in response to the user s words the robot may estimate a negative mood and update the personality identification data to be not so jovial. In other cases the robot may keep the mood identification data to be happy until further information can be provided. Although the robot may cease performing further tasks the robot may be programmed to perform a further task according to the modified user profile . In some instances the robot may respond to the negative reinforcement response by continuing to perform other tasks until a positive reinforcement response is receives. Therefore the robot may perform the task by bringing out the user s birthday cake and lighting candles on the cake. The user response may again be a negative reinforcement response or non responsive where the user ignores the birthday cake. Therefore the robot may be unable to determine a task to receive a positive user response based on the estimated personality .

In some instances the user profile may also include historical personality data such that the robot may analyze previous estimated circumstances and . For example previous estimated circumstances and may include a wedding or a funeral reflected identification data and respectively. Further the robot may analyze context which may indicate a general context for a celebration personality for the wedding identifier .

In some instances the robot may compare current context with the context of a celebration event corresponding to previous estimated circumstance identification data . Upon this comparison the robot may determine a substantially close or best match e.g. having matched a clown in the contextual environment the robot determines this is not a wedding celebration but a birthday celebration .

Responsive to the match the robot may perform prior task corresponding to the previous identification data which may include bringing the user a balloon. The user may give the robot a positive reinforcement response by smiling at the robot and thanking the robot. Therefore the robot may add task and the corresponding user response to the positive estimated mood . Further the robot may continue performing prior task and provide more balloons to the user until a negative reinforcement response is given to the robot.

In some embodiments multiple robots may modify the user profile . For example referring where various robots may interact with the cloud and share information with each other as shown in the example system . Robots and may perform tasks and respectively. Each task may be performed simultaneously or in some embodiments they may be performed at different times. In either case the user may give reinforcement responses and sequentially to each task and each response may be recorded to the user profile accessible through cloud .

The robot may further use other local sensors to make a determination regarding an attitude or mood of the user . For example the robot may analyze characteristics of the user including facial features a tone of voice a heart rate blood pressure to make a determination regarding an attitude or mood of the user .

In addition in some examples the robot may provide a personalized interaction or response to the user based on the determined information of the user . For example the robot may interact differently with an elderly woman versus a young man or may interact differently with a happy person versus an angry person. For example the robot may raise its communication volume when interacting with an elderly person because past interactions with elderly person suggest that an elderly person may become frustrated or confused based on the sensor data when the elderly person cannot hear or understand spoken words from the robot.

In some examples the robot may obtain information from user device and utilize a user profile to determine a personality for the user . For example similar to scenario above where the user may act differently when interacting with an elderly woman the user profile for user may include adopting an elderly man persona to communicate with the user via the user device .

At block the method includes receiving data associated with the user. For example a robot may access a device of the user. The robot may have a number of sensors such as a microphone or camera to receive speech video pictures of the user. The robot may further include an interface e.g. keypad keyboard touchscreen with which the user may interact and the robot may receive data of the user via the interface.

At block the method includes identify the user or category of user. For example the robot may use speech recognition or face recognition to identify the user. In instances in which the specific user may not be identified or known by the robot the robot estimate a gender an age of the user to identify or determine a category of the user. The robot may have access to a database indicating categories of users and corresponding characteristics of the users. For example one category may include a young man and characteristics of users in this category may include a male in the age between 10 18.

At block the method optionally includes make a determination regarding an attitude or mood of the user. For example the robot may further use other local sensors to analyze characteristics of the user including facial features a tone of voice a heart rate blood pressure to make a determination regarding a personality.

At block the method includes provide a personalized interaction or response to the user based on the determined information of the user. The robot may be configured to interact in a certain manner with certain individuals or categories of users. The robot may have access to a database that includes predetermined sets of interactions to perform based on who the user is identified to be or what category the user is determined to be within for example.

Actions or functions of the method may be performed by the robot the cloud or components of the cloud in a distributed manner. Alternatively all actions or functions of the method may be performed locally by the robot.

In some examples a robot may receive inputs from a user through touch and associate the inputs with a personality and or also with an appropriate response by the robot. For example if a user pats the robot on the head the robot may determine that the user is pleased and may respond appropriately e.g. by adopting the personality of a favorite dog or cat . In this manner the robot may attempt to respond to human interactions. The robot may have access to a database that includes interactions to perform based on received physical inputs from the user.

Input received from sensors on the robot may be classified as positive neutral negative and based on the classification the robot may be configured to provide an appropriate response. The robot may interact with the cloud to determine an appropriate classification an appropriate response.

In some examples the robot may perform emotional learning that can be associated with episodes e.g. situations times and the episodes can be stored and recalled as appropriate. For example if the user consistently provides a positive physical interaction with the robot when the robot performs a certain function the robot may be configured to determine that the certain function is acceptable by the user. As an alternative if the user consistently provides a negative physical interaction with the robot when the robot performs another certain function the robot may be configured to determine that this certain function is not acceptable by the user. Emotional learning can be customized to individual users so that the robot can learn different responses appropriate to different users. Alternately when no history for a user exists a robot can use histories of other similar users to interpolate an appropriate response for the user.

A robot may be configured to perform as a counselor or social agent by determining an appropriate response to the user. The robot can build emotion models or access emotion models on the cloud to determine an appropriate reaction to a situation e.g. a child tending robot may be configured to performed behaviors specifically tuned to a specific child .

In some examples the robot may determine an appropriate interaction for a given user based on any combination of the types of data described above including user data e.g. facial expression user interaction e.g. physical touch to robot and or user information e.g. data received from a user device .

In some examples the robot may synthesize inputs received from multiple sensors to infer a personality. For example the robot could use sensors to analyze i a person s facial expressions ii tone of voice iii word usage iv body temperature pulse rate blood pressure and so on. The robot may interpret these inputs to determine the reaction attitude mood of the person in response to the robot s actions so that data collected by sensors on the robot can be abstracted into data indicating a personality.

In examples described herein any of the methods may facilitate functions for a higher level service e.g. higher in a software stack such that details and specifics for how to perform the specific function may be performed by the cloud. The robot may be configured to perform actions functions based on a result of the specific function rather than or in addition to performing the specific function. The cloud may perform functions associated with a behavior emotion recognition system that is at a higher level in the software stack than software on the robot that is configured to cause the robot to receive sensor data for example and the system on the cloud may abstract out various sensor inputs into higher level methods and or attributes. As an example using the method the robot may execute software to perform function calls which may cause the robot to provide data from sensors to the cloud and receive from the cloud information indicating a personality. In this manner the robot may be caused to perform certain functions e.g. gather data from sensors by the cloud and to perform other functions e.g. perform actions based on the determined mood based on locally executed software.

Thus the robot may be configured to execute functions higher in a software stack based on instructions received from the cloud for example. A robot applications can be developed without having to query a camera to determine a user action or to query a microphone to detect choice speech but rather robot applications can be developed to include functions calls such as Determine.userHappy which may return True for example. Underlying processing of data may be performed by the cloud based on data received from the robots.

In another example as described above with reference to robots may interact and share information through the cloud. A given robot may determine and store preferences about a given user as to personalities. A robot may respond to different users in different ways. The robot may be configured to perform actions associated with a given personality that may be learned over time based on interactions with a user that may be designed by a personality author or may be a combination of learned and designed responses for example.

A robot s personality or personalization can be transferred from one robot to another robot or information stored on one robot can be shared with another robot over the cloud. This may enable one robot encountering a user to learn from experiences accumulated from other robots interacting with similar users as well as many other forms of generalization and personalization.

In some examples robots operating in a given city or country may be configured to operate according to local customs or cultures. The robots may receive shared personalities of another robot but may modify the shared personality to be in line with local customs or cultures for example.

In still other examples a robot may learn a personality of a specific person or other groups of people as well. For example the robot may learn manners or customs of different groups or perhaps the manners or customs of people in different social situations and may develop a personality appropriate for interacting with such people. The robot may then share the personality with other robots over the cloud.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

