---

title: Inbound telephony orchestrator for hangout-based contact center platform
abstract: A system and method are provided for receiving inbound conventional calls and establishing real-time interconnectivity in a multimedia production environment. The system may include: a signaling unit; a contact center bell application, a particular reflector associated with a virtual hangout, and a contact center manager application. The system may further include a room manager application. The method may include: transmitting a call request to the integration unit, wherein call information corresponding to the call request is sent to the contact center manager; and connecting to the communications session, which corresponds to a virtual hangout identification received by the integration unit from the contact center manager based on the call information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071681&OS=09071681&RS=09071681
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09071681
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
Face to face or in person interactions among groups of individuals allow each individual to observe the behavior mood expressions tone and the like of the other individuals in the group. Group interactions can facilitate relationship building by the creation of shared experiences. Traditionally such group interactions were restricted to in person congregations of the group. With all of the individuals together they are able to share experiences like mutually participating in interactive sessions or audio visual presentations. The camaraderie can be substantial and long lasting.

More recently face to face group meetings among participants at remote locations have been permitted with live video and audio feeds of each of the participants. Both personal computers PCs and personal digital assistants PDAs are now commonly equipped with both microphones and video cameras that provide the basic resources for creating a shared sessions among a group of individuals with PCs or smart phones.

Such video meetings rely on Internet based communication protocols such as Voice over IP VoIP . Streams of video and audio packets are created transmitted across the internet and decoded and reassembled in a manner permitting each recipient to hear and see the other participants in a face to face manner.

In contrast conventional communication systems such as the public switched telephone network PSTN and private branch exchange PBX systems continue to be the primary communications resource for large percentages of the general population. Such systems are based on switched networks that connect one location to another. Typically such systems transmit voice signals between two termination points.

While an individual who wishes to establish an audio or an audio visual conference may have several alternatives available to them. Audio visual communications with a group of others has often been the domain of the internet. Alternatively audio communications are typically the domain of the PSTN. And these options are often not compatible with one other. For example a group interacting in a particular VoIP multimedia communication environment is unable to communicate using that environment with other individuals that only have access to voice only PSTN compatible devices.

According to an embodiment a server system is provided connecting to one or more clients and providing virtual hangouts supporting real time multimedia sessions. The server system is capable of receiving inbound conventional calls or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and establishing real time interconnectivity with the real time multimedia sessions and the one or more clients. The server system includes a signaling unit connected to a conventional phone network and configured to receive a conventional inbound phone call from a conventional phone client through the conventional phone network the signaling unit configured to transform conventional phone signals received from the conventional phone client into an internet protocol phone signal stream a contact center bell application connected to the signaling unit the contact center bell application configured to produce a phone call identifying signal including identifying information particular to the conventional inbound call a particular reflector associated with a virtual hangout the particular reflector being one of a plurality of reflectors the particular reflector being capable of connecting with the contact center bell application to receive internet protocol phone signal streams the particular reflector further capable of combining the internet protocol phone signal streams with at least one other multimedia signal stream and broadcasting combined multimedia signals in a real time session to particular client devices corresponding to the virtual hangout and a contact center manager application connected to the contact center bell application the contact center manager application configured to a receive the phone call identifying signal b process the phone call identifying signal and c transmit an identification signal that identifies the particular reflector associated with the virtual hangout wherein the contact center bell is further configured to establish a connection between the signaling unit and the particular reflector associated with the virtual hangout based on the identification signal so that the internet protocol phone signal streams are received by the particular reflector combined with the at least one other multimedia signal streams and broadcast to the particular client devices corresponding to the virtual hangout.

In a further embodiment the server system further includes a room manager application residing on or in connection with the server system and connected to the contact center bell application and the contact center manager application the room manager application being configured to transmit the identification signal that identifies the particular reflector associated with the virtual hangout to the contact center manager application.

According to another embodiment a method performed by a conventional phone client is provided for integrating a conventional inbound phone call into a communications session within a multimedia production environment including a contact center manager an integration unit and a reflector. The method includes transmitting a call request to the integration unit wherein call information corresponding to the call request is sent to the contact center manager and connecting to the communications session which corresponds to a virtual hangout identification received by the integration unit from the contact center manager based on the call information by receiving audio content that includes a consolidated audio stream converted to a format compatible with the conventional phone client wherein the consolidated audio stream is based on a set of a plurality of data streams received and processed by the reflector and the data streams received by the reflector correspond to the virtual hangout identification.

A multimedia production environment provides a mechanism for two or more individuals to interact in the same virtual location which may be described as a virtual hangout. A virtual hangout supports multiple users using diverse communication tools to interact collaborate and or share information and experiences in the same virtual environment. In an Internet environment the virtual hangout is hosted by one or more servers that support communications sessions with user machines equipped with resources such as microphones and video cameras. For example individuals participating in a virtual hangout may share and watch videos play games participate in video audio or text chat surf the web seek or provide assistance regarding a particular problem or any combination thereof. In other words a virtual hangout is where individuals may share an experience substantially similar to interacting in person at the same physical location.

When an individual desires to interact with a group of others in a virtual environment the individual employs a client device to either initiate a virtual hangout session or join an existing virtual hangout session. When establishing a new virtual hangout session the individual invites others to join the session. Typically to join an existing virtual hangout session each participant must be invited. Invitations may be delivered in many different manners including via e mail or text messaging services. An individual can request joining an existing hangout session even though he or she has not received an invitation assuming the URL for the session is known. Additionally individuals participating in a virtual hangout session may cause the session to link to external resources and integrate those external resources into the participates graphical user interface GUI .

In an example embodiment a hangout is provided with the ability to cross connect to sources outside of the internet environment. As indicated in one embodiment a hangout may be attended by others with internet access. Audio visual connections to the hangout may be established through address connections and communication sessions established by publishing and sharing content at an established URL. In example embodiments such connections are permitted to cross technology boundaries and establish inbound connections from other platform technologies such as the PSTN and the like. Such example embodiments include a portal of phone numbers that may be dialed and connected to by a potential new entrant to a hangout session. As a user calls a phone number an example embodiment permits the call to be analyzed for content and characteristics. Such embodiments permit the conventional call signal platform to be translated into another signal platform specified by the hangout protocol. The translated audio stream and the characteristics of the call are then isolated by a contact center bell CCB and communicated to an application manager.

In an example embodiment a CCB establishes a two way media path with the originating party while it communicates call details with a contact center manager CCM . The CCM may then process the information provided and identify or establish a Jabber Identifier JID or similar network connection identifiers. In the embodiment utilizing JID communicated information may include a node identifier a domain identifier and a resource identifier. Based upon such information a hangout room is identified as a new or existing multimedia communication location. In communication with other applications the incoming call having been translated to an internet platform is connected with a reflector permitting multiple streams of information to be communicated to the hangout. In one example the incoming call is converted to a VoIP format by the carrier e.g. a two way Real time Transfer Protocol RTP stream with Session Initiation Protocol SIP signaling . The CCB may further transform incoming calls to a format compatible with the multimedia production environment e.g. taking an incoming PSTN or VoIP call and transforming it specifically to XMPP signaling with multiple RTP streams . The audio signals being sent to participants of the hangout are separately processed and consolidated into individual audio streams using standards such as the G.711 standard. Such signals are decoded into appropriate PSTN or similar signals and transmitted back to any individuals utilizing such methods of connection.

An example multimedia production environment is described in detail with respect to . The illustrated environment is presented as an example and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other group networking environments. To the contrary the description contemplates all implementations of multimedia production environments that have the capability to integrate conventional calls into the multimedia production environment.

Turning to one or more client devices is connected to a communication session supporting a multimedia production environment that enables communication among the users of the client devices. Examples of client devices and A C include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. In some embodiments two or more client devices are the same type of device. For example client devices and A may both be mobile telephones. In other embodiments two or more client devices are different types of devices. For example client devices and A may both be mobile telephones and client device B may be a desktop computer.

In the embodiment illustrated by the client device communicates with a server device via a communications channel . The communications channel typically includes an Internet connection between the client device and the server device in an example embodiment. The server device often comprises multiple physical servers such as a communications server for maintaining or hosting one or more communication sessions such as communication session . Of course each server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine.

One or more of the communication sessions are virtual hangouts. In another embodiment the client device maintains or hosts a communication session and other client devices such as client devices A C in are routed to the communication session at the client device by server device or directly connect to the client device via an ad hoc network or the like. Additionally while depicted as a single device in in some embodiments server device includes a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at different physical locations.

Communications or hangout sessions at the communications server are supported by an environment defined by a runtime engine executing at the server. For example the run time engine may be Google s App Engine. The runtime engine provides the platform for the hangout session and supplies resources required for user interaction. The resources of the application engine are available to the hangout session by way of an application programming interface API .

The client device of includes application s communications client output device e.g. a display and input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . Application s provide the client device with a variety of functionality. Examples include social media functionality web browsing capabilities calendars contact information games and document processing. Generally application s employ the output device to display information at a graphical user interface GUI .

The communications client further includes a communications module that enables output device to display information at the GUI . The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the communications server allowing user in to establish or join a hangout session. Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client device to a network such as the Internet using one of a variety of available network protocol techniques. Two or more client devices and A may join the same communications session hosted at the server . Through the communications session the communications module at the client device enables the user to invite other users to the join the session.

Once a communications session is established a communications channel between the communications client and the communications server exchanges data such as audio video text and or other information. In some embodiments the data exchanged between the communications client and the communications server is optimized based at least in part on the hardware and or software capabilities of client device . For example if the client device is a mobile device connecting through to the session by way of a bandwidth limited path such as a cellular network communications server may optimize the number and quality of the audio video text and or other information sent to client device . Furthermore communications client may dynamically adjust the bit rate required to send the information to communications server by for example reducing the quality of the audio video text and or other information being sent to communications server .

GUI is an illustrative example of a GUI from which a virtual hangout may be initiated and sustained. In the illustrated embodiment GUI includes information about one or more other users connected to user by the communications session . The GUI may also include information about other hangouts user may join notifications of events or invitations and other information relevant to user .

After a communications session or hangout is created by a user other users may join following a request approve process. For example user may send a request to user A requesting to be connected to user A s hangout session. In order to complete the request user A chooses to either accept or deny the request. Upon accepting the request communications session connects user into the hangout session initiated by user A. In some instances user A grants permission to user to view personal information entered by user A posts created by user A or other users connected to user A.

The GUI may also support the ability to broadcast the availability of a session or hangout to a circle of friends defined by each user. The GUI of each friend identifies the available hangout session and the client includes URL information that allows the user to join the hangout if desired. Each client may include multiple circles of friends with each defined by social attributes. For example one circle of friends may be friends established from a common working relationship. Another circle of friends may be friends established from familial relationships. Another circle of friends could be friends established from a common educational background or experience. The GUI supports invitations to individuals or to one or ore circles of friends.

Also each circle of friends may be associated with a different profile of permissions or privileges through the GUI such that the circle is able to view a different subset of information about the user. A friend can be included in more than one circle. In that case the GUI allows the user to determine whether the broadest or narrowest set of permissions or privileges of the circles to which the friend belongs are given to the individual friend.

As shown in client devices A C include communications clients A C respectively that enable users A C to join one or more of the hangouts or communication sessions . Each of the communications clients A C includes the same or similar functionality as the communications client .

In order to establish or join a virtual hangout user interacts with GUI to cause communications client to generate a request to create a new communications session or join an existing communications session. For example GUI includes a Create Hangout button that user activates in order to create a new hangout. In response to user activating the Create Hangout button communications client sends a request to initiate a new communications session to communications server which establishes a new virtual hangout.

User may invite additional users to the hangout session such as users A C in while the virtual hangout is being instantiated or anytime thereafter. At the GUI user selects individual friends or one or more different circles of friends to join the hangout. The selected friends are sent invitations via various conventional means such as text messaging and e mail. The invitations include all information required for the invited friend to find and join the hangout session.

For example to join an existing hangout or communications session the user selects a join link icon at the GUI and selects a hangout from a displayed list of available hangouts at the GUI or selects a join link icon displayed in an external source such as an instant message or posting. However communicated to the user in response to user initiating an attempt to join an existing virtual hangout session communications client sends a request to join the virtual hangout to the communications server . The request includes an identifier of the particular communication session associated with the virtual hangout. The identifier may be included in the join link for the virtual hangout. Communications server connects communications client to the specified communication session .

Referring now to one particular example of client device is illustrated. In general many other embodiments of the client device may be used as long as they support at least limited participation in the hangout sessions. In the illustrated embodiment of the client device includes one or more processors memory a network interface one or more storage devices power source output device and input device . The client device also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client. In a conventional fashion each of components and are interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

As illustrated processors are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within client device . For example processors execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory is maintains program instructions for execution by the processors .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB. In some embodiments the client device uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server device of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The client device includes one or more input devices . Input device is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device . Output device is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output device may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

The client device includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client. Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source . As illustrated in communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module typically includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In some embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the client device . In other embodiments communications client receives input from one or more of the input devices of the client device . Communications client preferably receives audio and video information associated with a communications session e.g. a virtual hangout from other client devices participating in the communication session.

The communications module initiates a hangout session from the client device and maintains the session with the communications session at the server while the client performs other tasks. Once one or more other users join the hangout session the application engine at the server may provide additional services to the session that supports interaction among users.

The client device can maintain one or more ambient hangouts in its background. By maintaining the ambient hangouts in its background the client device saves computing resources including power bandwidth processor speed memory and the like. While a hangout is ambient user is able to use other features or applications of the client device such as application s . As shown in GUI displays application interface . Application interface allows user to use and interact with application s which in one embodiment can be a internet browser such as Internet Explorer . For example while client device maintains an ambient hangout in its background user may interact with application interface to view social media browse the web view a calendar and or contacts play games process documents or any other function performed by a computing device such as client device . In some examples application interface is a graphical display that is not interactive.

The communications module causes GUI to display a user selectable icon . Non limiting examples of the icon are a virtual or graphical button such as a key of a virtual keyboard a touch target a physical button of client device or a button on an input device coupled to client device such as a mouse button a button on a mobile device or a key of a keyboard. Of course GUI may include other graphical controls as well.

In communications module is also configured to cause GUI to display an availability indication . The availability indication indicates to individual friends and or circles whether user is available to engage in a communication session . The availability of user is communicated to selected friends. In some instances availability indication indicates that user is not currently available for a communication session. Other times availability indication indicates that user is currently available for a communication session. In some embodiments availability indication is only present in GUI when user enables it. In some embodiments availability indication is only displayed when the communication session is ambient and not when user is engaged in the communication session. Availability indication may be a graphical icon or shape such as a small circle whose visual properties change between user being available and being unavailable. For example availability indication may be a shape that is red when user is unavailable to hangout and green when user is available to hangout. Alternatively availability indication is not present regardless of whether an ambient communication session has been initiated.

In some embodiments user interacts with a social media application such as web based application supported by an Internet browser application where a list of user s contacts is provided such as in a list of icons or thumb images. Each friend may be associated with an indication similar to availability indication that informs user if the friend is available for or desires to engage in a hangout session. If the friend is available to hangout in a communication session the indication includes an attribute informing the user that the friend is online and available to hangout. If the friend is offline or otherwise unavailable an attribute of the indication informs the user that the friend is unavailable. In some embodiments user is able to see information of other users who are not in a friend list of user . Alternatively a friend only shows up on the list if the friend is either available or online.

User may toggle or select icon in order to indicate that user is available or unavailable for a communications session . Availability indication is then displayed on output device or availability indication changes to reflect availability of user . In contrast if user was previously available and toggles icon availability indication shows that user is unavailable. Toggling or selecting icon causes communications client to issue a signal indicating to other computing devices that user is available to participate in a communication session. In some instances the signal is broadcasted to a circle of contacts of user .

As described user may be using application s while communications module operates an ambient hangout in the background of the client device . When the hangout session initiated by user is an ambient hangout he is not active in the hangout. As soon as a second user enters the hangout the communications session supporting the hangout provides full functionality to the hangout session and it ceases to be an ambient hangout. In other examples the hangout is ambient only if user is not currently participating in the hangout.

The graphical user interface GUI of is an example of the GUI of client device of . However the graphical display of may be outputted using other devices. A client application supporting hangout sessions is typically contained within an internet browser session. The application exposes a number of features to the user through the GUI. These graphically displayed features include a video display of one or more participants in the hangout. A chat feature is also provided including a chat history and a field where a user can such as user input text to the chat conversation. GUI is also configured to display graphical images that are associated with participants in the hangout. Graphical images include images of users currently participating in the hangout.

In the example GUI a live bar provides information to user including information describing the availability of friends or other users or contacts to join the hangout. In one embodiment live bar is a scrollable bar that displays graphical images associated with contacts or other users who may be currently available to hang out in a communication session. Selection of one of the graphical images sends an invitation to join the hangout to the user associated with that image. In some embodiments live bar is updated in real time to reflect actual availability of the users displayed. The users displayed on live bar may be displayed as graphical still photos for example icons or with a live video feed if the user has a camera enabled. The example GUI includes additional a user selectable button which functions to toggle live bar between being displayed and hidden. Buttons allows the user to scroll through the different users.

Referring to in one embodiment an application programming interface API of an Application Engine or App Engine provides many resources to the communications session e.g. a hangout session . In turn the App Engine depends on resources provided from an API exposed by an Resource Infrastructure Layer and a Networking Infrastructure Layer which are supported by the communications servers and their Operating Systems . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer connect HTTP requests from the user to the communications sessions . The App Engine also provides a runtime environment for the communications sessions . Administrative support for the communications sessions are provided by a Contact Center Module CCM in the App Engine as described in greater detail hereafter in connection with . The App Engine also provides access to a database in the Resource Infrastructure Layer for persistent storage requirements of the communications sessions .

Through its API the App Engine provides the communications sessions access to resources on the Internet such as web services or other data. The App Engine retrieves web resources using the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The communications session also sends and receives messages using the App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a cache which is useful for temporary data or data copied from the datastore to the cache for high speed access. The Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a file system and scheduling resources. An example of the App Engine Google s App Engine. An example of the Resource Infrastructure Layer the Networking Infrastructure Layer and the Operating System is Google s supporting infrastructure and operating system for its App Engine.

Given the example environment depicted in and turning now to a block diagram is depicted illustrating an architecture according to an example embodiment for establishing hangouts among IP client devices i.e. client devices capable of communicating over VoIP and conventional phone clients e.g. landline telephones and cellular phones utilizing voice only functionality . In the context of IP client devices such as a smart phones or personal computing devices a connection is established to one or more web servers which interface with a CCM and a RM . The one or more web servers provide control signaling with respect to incoming VoIP calls in order to assign the call to an appropriate location. It will be appreciated that the one or more web servers may be a part of the communication server as depicted or separate from the communication server .

In the case of conventional phone clients inbound calls are connected to an integration unit of the communication server via one or more softswitches maintained by one or more providers such as cellular network carriers . It will be appreciated that the one or more softswitches need not be provided by the one or more providers and may be incorporated into the integration unit or elsewhere. The integration unit includes a signaling unit that establishes a two way call path between the conventional phone clients and the communication server via a conventional phone network maintained by the one or more providers . The signaling unit further transforms conventional phone signals received from the conventional phone clients to internet protocol phone signal streams such as VoIP format. In one example embodiment the signaling unit utilizes SIP and includes open source IP telephony servers and applications such as FreeSWITCH Open SIPS YATE and Asterisk. The CCB is also part of the integration unit and receives call information from the signaling unit works together with the CCM and Room Manager RM to assign incoming calls from conventional phone clients to appropriate virtual hangouts and processes RTP streams received from a reflector for transmission to the conventional phone clients .

The hangout coordinator which is responsible for maintaining the virtual hangouts and providing content to devices connected to a virtual hangout includes the CCM as described above the RM the reflector and a media server . only depicts a particular reflector corresponding to a particular virtual hangout but it will be appreciated that a plurality of reflectors may reside on communication server . While depicts all these modules as being a part of communications server it will be appreciated that the implementation of these modules may be spread across different tangible servers and that certain modules such as the media server may be a separate component in communication with the modules of the communications server . It will further be appreciated that certain modules can be combined into a single module for example the CCM and RM may be combined into a more comprehensive CCM module. In other embodiments the various components may be integrated into a single platform while maintaining their individual functionality and identity such platform may be a single server or distributed applications.

In the example embodiment depicted by a conventional phone client calls a predetermined phone number to establish a phone connection over the PSTN PBX or other conventional phone network. The inbound call is routed through a softswitch to the signaling unit which establishes a two way call path with the conventional phone client . One or more gateways such as PSTN to SIP are included in the softswitch to allow SIP signaling with respect to conventional phone clients utilizing conventional calling protocols e.g. landline telephones and mobile telephones . In addition to SIP any internet engineering task force IETF defined signaling protocol may be alternatively utilized. As the softswitch opens the SIP communication it collects and codes certain data such as location time etc. In addition utilizing an API or other program the functionality of the softswitch might be utilized on another platform.

In this example embodiment an SIP signal from the softswitch is communicated to a signaling unit . The integration unit which includes the signaling unit is a junction point that controls the connection between different calling parties utilizing conventional phone clients and the multimedia production environment maintained by the hangout coordinator . The signaling unit includes an IP telephony server which is a SIP server in this example embodiment. The SIP server processes the signaling portion of a communication session and works in concern with transport protocols to provide content over the communication channel.

The CCB acts as an analyzer and coordinator between the multimedia production environment and the signaling unit . The CCB receives and determines certain identifier parameters from the conventional phone client via the softswitch and signaling unit and the CCB communicates call information to the CCM . The CCM receives the call information from the CCB and works together with the RM to locate or generate an appropriate room ID i.e. a JID which is analogous to a URL corresponding to the virtual hangout . It will be appreciated that for inbound calls that are new interactions with the multimedia production environment a JID generally does not previously exist. In such cases the CCM sends a request for the RM to generate a new JID and receives the newly generated JID back from the RM . With the JID established or located by the RM and received at the CCM CCB sends its properly addressed content stream to a reflector which manages media streaming. The JID also corresponds to a particular reflector associated with the virtual hangout and is used by the CCB to establish a connection between the signaling unit and the particular reflector .

With respect to IP client devices the one or more web servers perform signaling with respect to the CCM and RM in order to retrieve appropriate JIDs for the IP client devices . The one or more IP client devices also send call content to the reflector .

The reflector receives content from several separate sources e.g. from IP client devices from conventional phone clients and or from media server and buffers all incoming packets before synchronizing them and reordering them into various data sessions corresponding to each device connected to a virtual hangout. In the example embodiment these data sessions or real time sessions are RTP sessions that include multiple RTP streams. For example an RTP session provided by the reflector corresponding to a particular IP client device includes all content received at the reflector except for the content received from that particular IP client device . Thus the reflector would provide an RTP session to that particular IP client device including RTP streams received at the reflector from all other IP client devices RTP streams received at the reflector from the CCB corresponding to any conventional phone clients and media content received from the media server where all the content of the RTP session corresponds to a particular virtual hangout that the particular IP client device is participating in . It will be appreciated that other VoIP transport protocols other than RTP can also be used to transmit the call content and media content.

In another example an RTP session provided by the reflector corresponding to a particular conventional phone client is sent to the CCB . The CCB consolidates the multiple RTP streams of the RTP session into a consolidated audio RTP stream for example according to the G.711 standard. In one example embodiment in the RTP session the reflector provides only the audio RTP streams corresponding to call content from other devices and or media content from the media server and the CCB consolidates those audio RTP streams into a consolidated audio RTP stream provided to the signaling unit for transmission back to a particular conventional phone client . In another example embodiment in the RTP session with respect to a particular conventional phone client the reflector provides all content except for the content originating from that particular conventional phone client to the CCB and the CCB consolidates only audio RTP streams into the consolidated audio RTP stream that is provided to the signaling unit .

The CCM sends control signals to the media server to determine what resources the media server sends to the reflector for provision to the IP client device s and conventional phone client s via the RTP sessions. The media server provides a variety of media resources such as video content that is provided to the reflector . The reflector retrieves Session Description Protocol SDP information from the media server and provides RTP streams to the CCB for conventional phone clients and or to the IP client devices .

At stage the CCB transmits the call information to the CCM . The CCM based on its rules engine determines whether the incoming call needs a new virtual hangout room or whether the incoming call should be joined to an existing virtual hangout room based on the call information. Such call information can include nascent information such as the call number dialed and the time or may include additional information such as room ID information and the like. Then the CCM sends a stanza presence to the RM indicating that the CCM is ready to receive a new or existing JID that corresponds to the determination made by the CCM . Thus if a new room is not needed see stage the CCB receives an existing JID from the CCM which received the JID from the RM . If a new room is needed see stage the CCB receives a new JID from the CCM which received the JID from the RM . Then the CCB sends a stanza presence to the RM indicating that the CCB has associated the incoming call with the received JID. It will be appreciated that the stanzas sent to the RM may be sent according to conventional messaging protocols such as XMPP eXtensible Messaging and Presence Protocol .

At stage the CCB sends an RTP stream coming from the signaling unit onto the reflector . The content of the RTP stream originates from the conventional phone client and for example includes the audio content sent from the conventional phone client to the signaling unit . The reflector also receives resources from the media server if appropriate according to management of the call session by the CCM . For example if a streaming video from an external source is requested to be played in the virtual hangout room the media server provides the streaming video content to the reflector . At stage the CCB receives multiple RTP streams from the reflector such as audio or audio video RTP streams originating from other conventional phone clients and or IP client devices and RTP streams originating from the media server and consolidates an appropriate set of the multiple RTP streams into a single consolidated audio RTP stream. For example in one implementation multiple audio RTP streams can be consolidated into a single consolidated audio RTP stream according to the G.711 standard. At stage the consolidated audio RTP stream is then sent back to the signaling unit and ultimately sent back to the conventional phone clients for playback.

At stage the CCB sends a presence to the RM . Pursuant to control signals sent from the CCM to the media server at stage the media server sends SDP information to the reflector at stage and provides content to the reflector at stage . The reflector also receives RTP streams from IP Client Devices see stage and RTP streams corresponding to call content from other conventional phone clients see stage . At stage the reflector provides an RTP session to the CCB that includes multiple RTP streams corresponding to content received by the reflector at stages and .

At stage an appropriate set of these multiple RTP streams received from the reflector at the CCB are consolidated by the CCB into a single consolidated audio RTP stream. For example for a particular conventional phone client the CCB consolidates all audio RTP streams corresponding to devices other than that particular conventional phone client for transmission to that particular conventional phone client and video RTP streams received from the reflector if any would not need to be included or sent with the consolidated audio RTP stream since the conventional phone client is unable to play video content. At stage the CCB then sends the consolidated audio RTP stream to the signaling unit . At stage the signaling unit provides the content of the consolidated RTP stream to the conventional phone client via a softswitch i.e. by converting it into a format compatible with the conventional phone client and transmitting it to the conventional phone client .

It will be appreciated that the stages depicted in need not necessarily be performed in the order shown and certain stages may be performed in a different order or simultaneously. It will further be appreciated that certain stages need not constitute separate steps and that some of the stages may be ongoing once initiated.

Moreover it will be appreciated that merely depict example embodiments of the present disclosure and that the components and processing stages depicted therein may be modified added or removed in other embodiments. For example the functionality of the modules could be combined into a single or smaller set of applications. Alternatively the functionality of the applications and modules could be utilized from programs resting in other programs or platforms. In such case an API accesses the modules for information and control transfer. In each module functionality protocols could be modified to facilitate different forms of communications control and compression. For example other protocols other than SIP and RTP may be utilized for signaling and transport including but not limited to alternative protocols identified by IETF.

Further the functionality of the various modules can be established in any number of manners such as proprietary and open source platforms such as FreeSWITCH and others. For example in one example embodiment the signaling unit may be implemented utilizing a FreeSWITCH application in combination with an Open SIPS server and a YATE server. In an alternative embodiment the FreeSWITCH functionality can be adopted by another module to provide removal of the FreeSWITCH application.

As referenced an example embodiment permits contact information to be sent to the conventional phone user by email or other forms of communication. In one such instance the communications server sends a text message or email with the contact information. In still other embodiments the integration unit can place an outgoing call to a phone number for the conventional phone client. . In such case the communications server receives a command initiate by a user A or the like.

In the example embodiments the various applications can be configured on any distributed or embedded platform within a single physical location or multiple locations. For example the CCM may be resident on an individual and separate platform or may be embedded into the server platform. Similarly some of the resources may reside on individual and separate platforms or they may be embedded into the server or other platforms. As such embodiments contemplate that applications resources managers servers etc. may be joined or separated without diverging from their identities and functions. For example a server system may include a single server platform or multiple server platforms.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

