---

title: System, method and apparatus for phase-coded multi-plane microscopy
abstract: A volume holographic imaging system enables the projection of a two-dimensional (2D) slice of a four-dimensional (4D) object. The 4D source object is illuminated to emit or scatter an optical field. A holographic element having one or more recorded holograms receives and diffracts the optical field into a diffracted plane beam. A phase mask is encoded in one or more multiplexed holographic gratings of the holographic element using a spatial filter. A collector lens focuses the diffracted plane beam to a 2D slice of the 4D probing source object. The focused 2D slice is projected onto a 2D imaging plane. The holographic element may have multiple multiplexed holograms that are arranged to diffract light from a corresponding slice of the 4D probing source object to a non-overlapping region of the detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256202&OS=09256202&RS=09256202
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 09256202
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120521
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 488 344 entitled PHASE CODED MULTI PLANE MICROSCOPY filed May 20 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 500 467 entitled System Method and Apparatus for Contrast Enhanced Multiplexing of Images filed Apr. 5 2012 U.S. application Ser. No. 13 500 461 entitled System Method and Apparatus for Contrast Enhanced Multiplexing of Images filed Apr. 5 2012 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 500 464 entitled System Method and Apparatus for Wavelength Coded Multi Focal Microscopy filed Apr. 5 2012 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CA134424 awarded by the National Institute of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This disclosure relates generally to imaging systems methods and apparatus and more particularly to volume holographic imaging systems methods and apparatus that obtain enhanced images from multiple depths within an object.

Microscopic imaging systems are beneficial for among other things biomedical and clinical applications. Volume holographic microscopy VHM has been developed as a microscopic instrument for spatial spectral imaging of objects. Volume imaging systems have many useful applications such as spectral and three spatial dimensional biological imaging known as four dimensional 4D imaging endoscope imaging systems spectrometers and the like.

In VHM holographic gratings are superimposed in a volume recording material such that each grating obtains depth resolved information from different depths within the object. Microscopic imaging systems incorporating VHM visualize features of the object at different focal planes. Each focal plane is projected to a different lateral location on a camera. Thus the entire object volume is imaged slice wise onto the camera without the need for electrical or mechanical scanning. However many objects of interest are composed of weak phase features with poor contrast and are barely observable with VHM.

Embodiments taught herein relate generally to imaging systems methods and apparatus and more particularly to volume holographic imaging systems methods and apparatus that obtain enhanced images from multiple depths within an object.

According to one embodiment a contrast enhanced multiplexing imaging system as taught herein includes a volume hologram placed in the Fourier plane of the imaging system. To enhance the weak phase features within an object a phase mask also referred to herein as a phase contrast mask may be encoded and multiplexed within the hologram along with signal information representing features of the object. The system may be expanded to include additional multiplexed holographic gratings within a single volume hologram and hence simultaneously image more planes or slices of the object onto non overlapping locations on an imaging plane without scanning.

In one embodiment a microscope as taught herein includes objective lenses a holographic element with a phase mask encoded therein imaging lenses and an imaging plane such as found in a digital camera. The lenses and holographic element together may project an image onto the imaging plane. The holographic element may be a volume hologram having one or more multiplexed hologram gratings. The multiplexed holographic gratings may be located at the Fourier plane of the microscope and are Bragg matched to a different focal plane within an object and simultaneously projected to a different lateral location on the imaging plane. In exemplary embodiments the holographic element may be recorded in phenanthrenquinone doped poly methyl methacrylate PMMA .

In another embodiment a volume imaging system for imaging a source object as taught herein includes a holographic element collector optics and a spatial filter. The holographic element may be capable of recording one or more holograms of the source object and is configured to receive and diffract an optical field emitted or scattered from the source object onto one or more diffracted plane beams. A spatial filter may be used to encode a phase mask into one or more multiplexed holographic gratings of the holographic element. The collector optics may be configured to focus each of the one or more diffracted plane beams to a two dimensional slice of the source object and simultaneously project the focused two dimensional slice along an optical path onto an imaging plane.

In yet another embodiment a method for imaging an object in four dimensions and real time includes receiving an emitted or scattered optical field of the object by a holographic element which diffracts the received optical field into one or more diffracted plane beams. A phase mask may be encoded into one or more multiplexed holographic gratings of the holographic element. The diffracted plane beams may be focused into a two dimensional slice of the object. The two dimensional slice may be projected onto an imaging plane. When two or more slices of the object are projected the slices may be simultaneously projected onto non overlapping regions on the imaging plane. The diffraction may be based on one or more Bragg degeneracy properties.

In accordance with various embodiments taught herein are volume holographic imaging systems for obtaining contrast enhanced images from one or more depths within an object without scanning. The volume holographic imaging system enhances weak phase information of turbid objects by encoding the gratings of the volume hologram with phase information. The volume holographic imaging system may for example image the entire object volume in real time without electrical or mechanical scanning and provide contrast enhanced spatial and spectral information at all slices simultaneously. The volume holographic imaging system may include a microscope spectroscope endoscope or other optical instrument which may for instance be referred to as a single sideband edge enhancement volume holographic microscope.

An object placed in an embodiment of the imaging system results in two depth resolved images separated by approximately 50 m simultaneously displayed on an imaging plane. The imaging system may improve the phase contrast of the object by up to 89.0 times over conventional VHM methods.

A holographic grating may be created in the volume hologram by recording the interference pattern of two mutually coherent light beams which are generated by splitting the collimated laser beam into a reference arm and a signal arm . The reference arm determines the center of the object column not shown that will be visible by the hologram while the direction of the signal arm determines the location on the imaging plane not shown where the corresponding column will be projected.

A point source along the reference arm is formed by lens . The point source provides the source of electromagnetic radiation along the reference arm which interferes with the signal arm to record a grating in the volume hologram . The inter beam angle is the angle between signal arm and reference arm with respect to a surface of the volume hologram . The inter beam angle may be changed by between different exposures of electromagnetic radiation from the collimated laser beam. More than one grating may be formed in the volume hologram by varying the position of the point source in the reference arm for example by moving lens by a distance z between exposures while lens stays fixed. In some embodiments the nominal inter beam angle in air is 68 is 1 and z is 50 m although it will be appreciated that these values are examples and that these or other embodiments may use different values.

The filter in the signal arm is imaged onto the pupil of the volume hologram during exposure for encoding phase information into the holographic grating. Relay lenses and may be used in the signal arm to relay the image of the filter onto the hologram and to provide constant irradiance at the volume hologram.

In one embodiment the hologram exposures may be varied to increase the efficiency of gratings that select positions deeper within the object. In some embodiments the recording medium of volume hologram is phenanthrenquinone doped poly methyl methacrylate PQ doped PMMA and the collimated laser beam is an argon ion Ar laser operating at a wavelength of approximately 488 nm.

Other materials may be used as a recording medium. By way of example Aprilis ULSH 500 LiNbOincluding Zn doped LiNbOand DuPont photopolymers may be used as recording material. See Atsushi Sato et al Applied Optics vol. 42 pp. 778 784 2003 Yasuo Tomita et al Optics Express vol. 14 pp. 5773 5778 2006 and Raymond K. Kostuk et al Applied Optics vol. 38 pp. 1357 1363 1999 . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each material has a range of sensitivity for recording and that another source of electromagnetic radiation with appropriate wavelength in the corresponding range of sensitivity may be used for recording. With proper fabrication the multiplexed holographic gratings within a volume hologram can operate at wavelengths longer than the recording wavelength of signal arm and reference arm . See Y. Luo P. J. Gelsinger J. K. Barton G. Barbastathis and R. K. Kostuk Opt. Lett. Vol. 33 566 568 2008 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety . In the same embodiment the diffraction efficiencies of the two multiplexed gratings are approximately 40 and approximately 35 the thickness of the PQ doped PMMA recording material is approximately 1.5 mm and the numerical apertures of lens and lens are 0.65 and 0.55 respectively.

In one embodiment the multiplexed volume hologram is located at the Fourier plane of the objective lens . The imaging plane is located at the Fourier plane of the collector lens . The distance fis the distance between the second focal plane and the objective lens . The grating within multiplexed volume hologram that is Bragg matched to the second focal plane is located a distance of ffrom the objective lens .

In one embodiment the source of electromagnetic radiation may be a plurality of coherent light sources a broadband light source such as a dispersed white light source with chromatic foci a plurality of light emitting diodes or the like. The imaging plane may for example be part of a charge couple device CCD or camera which may be connected to or part of a computer projector or other such device.

In addition to the benefit of a more compact system implementation embedding recording the phase contrast mask in the volume holographic pupil provides an advantage in terms of image contrast. In this manner the optical field from the object interacts with the object throughout the entire volume 3D of the volume holographic pupil as opposed to a traditional phase contrast mask which is a thin 2D element. In the 3D element filtering is stronger for example scattered and out of focus light is more difficult to match the Bragg condition throughout the spatial spectrum of the phase contrast mask and is rejected whereas the desired wavefront coming from object features is perfectly matched to the spatial spectrum of the phase contrast mask and produces significant signal on the CCD camera. This results in better rejection of scattered and out of focus light.

Although the teachings herein have been described with reference to exemplary embodiments and implementations thereof the disclosed methods systems and apparatus are not limited to such exemplary embodiments implementations. Rather as will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art from the description taught herein the disclosed methods systems and apparatus are susceptible to modifications alterations and enhancements without departing from the scope hereof. Accordingly all such modifications alterations and enhancements within the scope hereof are encompassed herein.

