---

title: Mechanism that allows initiating print without being aware of the printer email address
abstract: In one implementation, a request for a print job for a printer having an email address is received. An identifier value for the requested print job is provided to a user. An identifier value input by the user is received. The user-input identifier value is verified, and the print job is released for printing based on the identifier value received from the user being successfully verified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09069501&OS=09069501&RS=09069501
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09069501
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120228
---
A web enabled printer is a printer that has internet connectivity. A web enabled printer has an associated email address. A user of a computing device such as a smart phone can email a document to the web enabled printer and the printer will print the emailed document.

Printing to a web enabled printer requires knowledge of the email address associated with the printer. Knowledge of the printer s email address is fine if for example the printer belongs to the person desiring to use the printer. However in some situations the person using the computing device to initiate the print job is different than the person that owns the web enabled printer the former person desires to use.

For example a person may be in a hotel lobby in which a web enabled printer is located. For that person to email a document to the printer the hotel management would need to tell the person the email address of the hotel s web enabled printer. And once the printer s email address becomes known the hotel management may find it difficult to control the use of the hotel s printer.

Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate computer companies may refer to a component by different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function. In the following discussion and in the claims the terms including and comprising are used in an open ended fashion and thus should be interpreted to mean including but not limited to . . . . Also the term couple or couples is intended to mean either an indirect direct optical or wireless electrical connection. Thus if a first device couples to a second device that connection may be through a direct electrical connection through an indirect electrical connection via other devices and connections through an optical electrical connection or through a wireless electrical connection.

The user device can be any type of computing device. Examples include smart phones and notebook computers. The user device includes an input device e.g. a keypad keyboard etc. and a display . In some embodiments the input device and display are implemented in the form of a touchscreen.

Each web enabled printer comprises a printer that can connect directly to the Internet or other type of network. Each printer includes an input device such as a keypad as well a display . A unique email address is associated with each web enabled printer . If the user of a user device knew the email address of a particular web enabled printer the user could email a document stored or otherwise accessible to the user device to the email address of a printer. The target web enabled printer will receive the email and print the document. However in accordance with various embodiments the user of the user device is not informed of the email address of the web enabled printers. Each web enabled printer is registered with the cloud service . Part of the registration process involves providing the physical location e.g. postal address longitude and latitude etc. of the printer.

The cloud service is implemented on for example a computing system such as a server with which the user device and the web enabled printers communicate. illustrates an example of such a computing system. Computing system in includes a central processing unit CPU coupled to a non transitory storage device and a network interface . The storage device may be implemented as any form of non transitory storage media such as random access memory RAM a hard disk drive Flash storage or combinations thereof. The storage device includes web enabled printer code which comprises machine readable instructions that are executed by the CPU to impart the computing system with some or all of the functionality described herein. The hardware diagram of may also apply to the architecture of the user device .

In accordance with various embodiments when a user of the user device wants to send a print job to a web enabled printer the user first selects a printer to receive the print job. In some embodiments the user device includes satellite based positioning receiver such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver. That receiver provides an indication as to the physical location e.g. coordinates of the user device. In other embodiments the user may input into the user device the location e.g. postal address . The user s user device provides its location to the cloud service . The locations of the various web enabled printers have previously been provided to the cloud service via the aforementioned registration process. The cloud service performs a printer discovery process by which the cloud service identifies which printers are close to the user s user device. The distance from the user device that the cloud service will search for printers may be programmable or fixed at given distance e.g. 100 feet . The cloud service provides information to the user device as to which printers are nearby the user device. Such information may be provided in the form of a list of printer names or in the form of map data showing the location of the user device as well as the location of printers present on the map data given the resolution chosen by the user of the user device . In accordance with various embodiments the cloud service does not provide the email address of the discovered web enabled printers to the user device. The cloud service generates and provides a URL. This URL is provided to the user device along with the list of printers. Providing this URL eliminates the need for user device to know the printers email address.

The user of the user device then selects one of the web enabled printers identified by the cloud service to receive a print job from the user device. The cloud service transmits the print job e.g. document to the web enabled printer selected by the user via the URL generated by the cloud service . The URL generated by the cloud service may include a universally unique identifier UUID that the cloud service maps to or otherwise associates with the web enabled printer selected by the user of the user device . The unique URL unique due for example to the UUID included in the URL points to a representational state transfer application programming interface REST API . The REST API is a programmatic interface to which clients such as user devices can connect to programmatically initiate a print job. When initiating a print job the user device will connect to the URL provided by the cloud service . The user device may provide additional information on how the print should appear on paper.

The cloud service also generates an identifier value for the print job. The identifier value may be or may be based on a random number. The identifier value may be universally unique but in other implementations the same identifier value may be used more than once on different print jobs. The identifier value is different than the UUID included in the URL. The identifier value comprises an alphanumeric character string in some examples. The identifier value may be a personal identifier PIN . The cloud service transmits the identifier value to the user device which displays the identifier value on the display for the user to see.

The cloud service further inserts the print job to a print queue corresponding to the selected printer . The term print queue refers to any type of storage paradigm for a print job such as a print box or other type of data structure. The cloud service maintains such a queue for each web connected printer. The print job is held in queue by the cloud service for a configurable time duration e.g. 24 hours to be sent to the printer after the correct identifier value is provided. The print queue can be viewed on the display of the selected printer .

Having knowledge of the identifier value the user approaches the targeted printer views the print queue print box on the display of the printer . The user selects the print job in the queue and inputs the identifier value the user received into the input device of the printer. Access to the printer may be controlled by a person other than the user of the user device. For example the printer may be owned by the owner of the business in which the user is attempting to print a document. The user of the user device may not be permitted to input the identifier value until the business representative e.g. store or hotel clerk says so. The business representative may require payment for the printing service from the user before permitting the user to enter the identifier value. The identifier value can be entered directly into the printer s input device or an input device otherwise coupled to or accessible by the printer .

Once the user does enter the identifier value which should match the identifier value generated by the cloud service the printer transmit the user entered identifier value to the cloud service which verifies the user entered identifier value. This verification process may include the cloud service comparing the user entered identifier value provided to the cloud service by the printer with the identifier value originally generated by the cloud service for that particular print job.

If the two identifier values match the user entered identifier value is determined by the cloud service to be successfully verified. If the identifier values do not match the user entered identifier value is determined by the cloud service not to be successfully verified. If the user entered identifier value is successfully verified the cloud service releases the print job and the job data is sent to the web enabled printer . Releasing the print job means that the printer will actively begin to print the print job initiated by the user of the user device. If however the user entered identifier value is not successfully verified the cloud service will not release the job and the job will continue to be held by the cloud service and not printed. When a job is not successfully released from the server after the threshold period of time noted above e.g. 24 hours the cloud service will purge from the queue the job information and the document received as part of the print job.

At method includes the server discovering one or more web enabled printers based on physical proximity of such printers to a user device e.g. a user device through which a user is attempting to initiate a print job . At method includes the server receives a request for a printer having an email address to print a requested print job. The request may originate from the user device . At the server provides an identifier value to a user of the user device that originated the request. At the server receives as input an identifier value provided by a user. From potentially multiple print jobs the user selects his or her desired job on the printer s display and when prompted by the printer provides the identifier value into the input device of the printer targeted by the print job as explained above. Each print job may be identified on the printer s display using the user names associated with each user e.g. user s email address as explained above . At the server verifies the user provided identifier value. At the server causes the print job to be released based on the user provided identifier value being successfully verified.

At the server discovers a web enabled printer based on physical location. As explained above the server has the physical location of the registered printers . When a user desired to initiate a print job to a web enabled printer the server receives information specifying the physical location of the user s user device . The server then determines which printers are in the vicinity of the user device and provides a list of nearby printers to the user device.

At the server receives a selection of a printer from the user of the user device without having informed the user of the email address of the selected printer. At the server provides an identifier value associated with the selected printer to the user s user device . At the server receives as input an identifier value provided by a user after the use selects the print job on the printer s display as explained above. The user provides the identifier value into the input device of the printer targeted by the print job as explained above.

At the server determines whether the user provided identifier value is correct for the selected print job. If the user provided identifier value is correct then at the server causes a print job to be released to the targeted printer. If the user provided identifier value is not correct then at the print job is not released and the print job therefore is not printed.

At the user of a user device initiates a request to discover nearby web enabled printers to initiate a print job. This action can be performed by the user running an application on the user device to access the cloud service .

At the server discovers web enabled printers in the vicinity of the user s user device . As explained above the server previously is provided with the physical location of the registered printers . When a user desired to initiate a print job to a web enabled printer the server receives information specifying the physical location of the user s user device . The server then determines which printers are in the vicinity of the user device and provides a list of nearby printers to the user device. At the user of the user device selects a particular printer form the set of printers provided by the server .

At the server generates a one time use URL with a UUID and maps the UUID to the printer selected by the user . Mapping the UID to the printer may entail the server storing information in a database to associate the UUID to the printer. The server also generates an identifier value e.g. PIN at and at transmits the identifier value to the user s user device for the user to see.

At the server receives the print job from the user device at the URL created at and inserts the job to print queue of the printer. The job will held on the server pending receipt by the printer of a release command from the server. After the user selects the print job on the printer s display as described previously the user enters the identifier value provided to the user at into the printer s input device . At the printer sends the user entered identifier value to the sever for verification. The user entered identifier value is verified by the server at by for example comparison with the identifier value generated by the server at . If the identifier value is successfully verified then at the server sends the print job data to the selected printer and at the server erases the mapping of the UUID to the selected printer preventing additional access to the printer through that UUID. If however the identifier value is not successfully verified then the print job is not released as indicated at .

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

