---

title: Semiconductor heterobarrier electron device and method of making
abstract: An electronic device comprising a substrate; a pair of stacks of polar semiconductor materials which create a charge by spontaneous and/or piezoelectric polarization; one of the pair of stacks having a spontaneous and/or piezoelectric polarity which is in a direction opposite to the other of the pair of stacks; whereby due to the opposing polarities, the polarization is balanced. A method of substantially eliminating the bias required to offset polarization charges in an electronic device having a heterobarrier comprising providing a substrate; growing at least one pair of stacks of semiconductor materials; one of the pair of stacks having a spontaneous and/or piezoelectric polarity which is opposite to the other of the pair of stacks; whereby due to the opposing polarities, the polarization is balanced to substantially eliminate the need for a voltage bias.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09166068&OS=09166068&RS=09166068
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09166068
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The present invention relates to electronic devices having heterojunction interfaces. A heterostructure or heterojunction interface or refers to a region or interface that occurs at the junction between two different semiconductor crystal materials. The present invention is directed to heterostructure devices such as for example varactors. Varactors as defined in Wikipedia also referred to as varicap diodes varactor diodes variable capacitance diodes variable reactance diodes or tuning diodes are a type of diode which have a variable capacitance that is a function of the voltage impressed on their terminals.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 422 613 to Nativ hereby incorporated by reference discloses an integrated varactor diode frequency multiplier assembly. Another example of a varactor is described in the publication by Tanuma N Capacitance Analysis of Al0.25Ga0.75N GaN Heterostructure Barrier Varactor Diodes Phys. Stat. Sol. c 2 No. 7 2692 2695 2005 hereinafter Tanuma hereby incorporated by reference . The varactor of Tanuma appears to require a voltage bias as explained in Section 2 of Tanuma where it states 

In the following the terminology Group 13 IUPAC and Group III refer to the same group of elements. The Group 13 group comprises boron B aluminum Al gallium Ga indium In thallium Tl and ununtrium Uut each of which has three electrons in their outer valence levels.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is an electronic device comprising a substrate a pair of stacks of polar semiconductor materials which create a charge by spontaneous and or piezoelectric polarization one of the pair of stacks having a total polarity which is in a direction opposite to the other of the pair of stacks whereby due to the opposing polarities the polarization is balanced. For example the device may take the form of a varactor. The device may further comprise a pair of electrical contacts. Also in a preferred embodiment one of the pair of stacks may be N polar and while the other is Group 13 polar with the stacks being spaced apart from each other. The N polar and Group 13 polar stacks may each comprise at least two Group 13 N layers having a barrier layer therebetween whereby the N polar and G polar stealth operate to store electrical energy.

The present invention may be practiced as a method of substantially eliminating the bias required to offset polarization charges in an electronic device having a heterobarrier comprising providing a substrate growing at least one pair of stacks of semiconductor materials one of the pair of stacks having a spontaneous polarity which is opposite to the other of the pair of stacks whereby due to the opposing polarities the polarization is balanced to substantially eliminate the need for a voltage bias. The method may be used to make a varactor.

Although the invention is demonstrated with the application to a specific embodiment such as for example a varactor this technique may be applied to other electronic device applications without departing from the scope of the invention.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer or region is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower Or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. The regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention doesn t require a DC bias as revealed by the capacitance curves in which are symmetrical about V 0. Because of symmetrical capacitance curves relative to V 0 the circuit design is simplified and is more efficient since one doesn t need an additional bias to shift the CV curve so that it is symmetric about V 0.

A preferred embodiment may take the form of a heterobarrier varactor HBV structure comprising two parallel GaN AlGaN GaN columns one with Ga polar growth and one with N polar growth to balance polarization induced heterointerface charges which can exhibit a symmetric capacitance voltage C V plot and hence not require a biasing voltage. Heterobarrier varactors HBVs exhibit a nonlinear C V characteristic that generates harmonics and when operated as a reactive multiplier the conversion efficiency can reach 1 or substantially almost 100 efficiency . To achieve optimal efficiency heterobarrier varactors should exhibit a symmetric capacitance voltage C V curve and an antisymmetric current voltage I V curve. This type of structure generates no 2harmonic under RF excitation without a DC bias and therefore no idlers are needed at that frequency. A further description can be found in M. Krach J. Freyer and M. Claassen Power generation at millimeter wave frequencies using GaAs GaAlAs triplers Phys. Stat. Sol. c 1 2160 2004 and L. Dillner W. Strupinski Hollung C. Mann J. Stake M. Beardsley and E. Kollberg Frequency multiplier measurements on heterostructure barrier varactors on a copper substrate IEEE Elect. Dev. Lett. 21 206 2000 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein.

To achieve high frequencies the Group 13 nitride material system is considered suitable due to the material s ionic nature which leads to strong electron LO phonon coupling. A phonon is a collective excitation in a periodic elastic arrangement of atoms or molecules in solids and some liquids i.e. a quasiparticle that represents an excited state in the quantum mechanical quantization of the modes of vibrations of such interacting particles. The strong electron LO phonon coupling results in fast electron cooling by LO phonon emission in what is known as the Fr hlich interaction as further described in X. B. Zhang T. Taliercio S. Kolliakos and P. Lefebvre Influence of electron phonon interaction on the optical properties of III nitride semiconductors J. Phys. Condens. Matter 13 7053 2001 hereby incorporated by reference so that hot electrons occur at frequencies much higher than in other material systems and electron transfer from the lower valley to the upper L and X valleys through hot electron intervalley scattering is minimized. In these upper valleys the mobility and subsequently the drift velocities are lower. The Fr hlich interaction is a Coulomb interaction between electrons and the longitudinal electric field produced by the LO phonons. The electron to LO phonon emission rate in gallium nitride GaN is roughly 100 fs. A further description of this concept may be found in G. Xu S. K. Tripathy X. Mu Y. J. Ding K. Wang Yu. Cao D. Jena and J. B. Khurgin Investigation of hot electrons and hot phonons generated within an AlN GaN high electron mobility transistor Laser Physics 19 745 2009 . Also the high LO phonon emission rate minimizes electron thermionic emission over the heterobarrier. The high LO phonon emission rate along with higher drift velocities GaN peak drift velocity 2.9 10cm s and saturation drift velocity 2.5 10cm s and greater band offsets at heterobarriers makes the III nitride system a good choice for high frequency applications.

Heterobarrier varactors have been investigated in the AlGaN GaN system see in this regard N. Tanuma S. Yokokura T. Matsui and M. Tacano Capacitance analysis of Al0.25Ga0.75N GaN heterostructure barrier varactor diodes Phys. Stat. Sol. c 2 2692 2005 and M. Saglam K. Mutamba A. Megej C. Sydlo and H. L. Hartnagel Influence of polarization charges in Al0.4Ga0.6N GaN barrier varactors Appl. Phys. Lett. 82 227 2003 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference and the GaN indium nitride InN system see in this regard A. Reklaitis Terahertz frequency InN GaN heterostructure barrier varactor diodes J. Phys. Condens. Matter 20 384202 2008 hereby incorporated by reference but the observed C V plots exhibited nonsymmetric bias dependence due to the spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization induced sheet charges at the heterointerfaces. The present invention is directed to a new heterobarrier varactor device structure that accounts for polarization effects and exhibits a symmetric C V plot at zero bias. This is advantageous because the circuit design is simplified and is more efficient since one doesn t need an additional bias to shift the CV curve so that it is symmetric about V 0.

Note that although GaN is associated with the two stacks may comprise different group III nitride layers consisting of compounds GaN InN or AlN ternary alloys either AlGaN InGaN or AlInN where 0

Non centrosymmetric compound crystals crystals that lack inversion symmetry such as the wurtzite crystal structure exhibit a type of chemical polarity known as spontaneous polarization. The origin of spontaneous polarization can be understood as follows. For a binary A B compound in the wurtzite crystal structure the sequence of the layer of A atoms and the layer of B atoms in what is known as a bilayer are reversed in the two opposite growth directions 0001 and 000 1 along the crystal s c axis. The corresponding faces 0001 and 000 1 are known as the A and B faces and the c axis is an axis perpendicular to the hexagonal planes. A bilayer consists of two closely spaced layers one formed by cations metal such as Ga and the other formed by anions such as N . Because the cations and anions are different there is a separation of charge in the bilayer leading to a spontaneous polarization in the bulk material with a direction defined by the faces. The idea is similar for ternary and quaternary alloys. With a lattice mismatch to the underlying crystalline layer during growth a coherently strained and perhaps slightly relaxed layer is introduced and therefore the epitaxially grown layer also exhibits piezoelectric polarization. Since both spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization both contribute to the total polarization both have to be summed for the total polarization in each stack.

With a 4 V peak sinusoid applied the conversion ratio of 3rd harmonic 150 GHz to fundamental 50 GHz are J3 J1 0.16 for X 15 J3 J1 0.323 for X 25 and J3 J1 0.048 for X 35 . The high leakage at the heterobarrier is the major reason for the low conversion efficiency of the X 15 case. shows the transient behavior of the 25 composition device represented in . The transient current has an uneven shape due to the presence of a local minimum and two maximums in the C V curve rather than just one maximum. The numerical data in both are within the ranges calculated for InN GaN. For a further discussion of this concept see A. Reklaitis Terahertz frequency InN GaN heterostructure barrier varactor diodes J. Phys. Condens. Matter 20 384202 2008 hereby incorporated by reference.

Improved growth conditions or processing could affect device performance through reduced scaling of the heterobarrier interface charges so performance was examined using this as a parameter. With 60 of the total charge present on each AlGaN GaN interfaces the ratio of 3rd harmonic to fundamental J3 J1 increases to 0.365 for a 4 V sinusoidal input at 50 GHz. With 80 of the total charge present on each AlGaN GaN interface J3 J1 is 0.409. J3 J1 results for the input sinusoidal signal at 100 GHz X 0.25 heterobarrier varactor structure for 40 of the calculated polarization charge at each AlGaN GaN interface were J3 J1 0.24 for 60 J3 J1 0.288 and for 80 J3 J1 0.263.

In summary drift diffusion numerical simulations have shown that a GaN AlGaN GaN heterobarrier varactor structure can exhibit asymmetric C V characteristic about V 0 with reasonable efficiency J3 J1 0.323 for 40 of the total calculated polarization charge at the heterobarrier interfaces. The symmetric behavior is achieved by paralleling N polar and GA polar stacks. Further optimization accounting for heat flow and phonon relaxation is needed since though there is fast LO phonon emission to relax the electrons the LO phonon lifetime is still quite long and LO phonons can reduce the electron mobility and affect the carrier drift velocity. Adding Al to GaN reduces the hot phonon lifetimes so it may be necessary to use an AlGa N AlGa AlGaN structure with x

The present invention makes possible the generation of THz signals by tripling an input signal frequency of around 350 GHz third harmonic generation . This invention improves upon the conventional heterobarrier varactor made from this or other semiconductor materials. Very high efficiencies for conversion of fundamental frequencies to third harmonic frequencies are possible. For instance a 100 GHz input signal can be upconverted to 300 GHz with an excellent conversion ratio J3 J1 of 28.8 . A conventional heterobarrier varactor exhibits a nonlinear reactance that leads to the generation of harmonics including the third harmonic 3ro when a sinusoidal bias of frequency ro is applied across the device. Also the current voltage curves are antisymmetric so this makes the circuit design easier since there will be no second harmonic generation and therefore idlers are not required for the second harmonic. The issue with conventional heterobarrier varactors made of GaN or other III nitride semiconductors is that due to the internal polarization charges of this pyroelectric material the nonlinear capacitance vs. voltage plot is shifted so that it is not symmetric about the zero voltage axis. This greatly reduces the efficiency of third harmonic generation There are several advanges of making a varactor using the III nitride material system including the fact that the peak steady state drift velocity exceeds that of other semiconductor systems such as GaAs and the larger conduction band offset ensures better blocking of current over the heterobarrier compared to the GaAs material system. GaN is focused on for explanation purposes but this can work for other III nitride materials. GaN epilayers are grown using either the MOCVD or MBE method. It is possible depending on the growth conditions to obtain epilayers with gallium Ga atoms connected to a nitrogen N atom directly along and parallel to the growth direction. This is considered a Ga face or Ga polar material. If one obtains epilayers with N atoms connected to Ga atoms directly along and parallel to the growth direction the material is considered N face or N polar. Growth of both Ga polar and N polar materials has been demonstrated on the same wafer as needed in this invention. The determines the direction of the spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization vectors and the signs of the polarization charges at the interfaces between different the different III nitride semiconductor materials. illustrates the interface charges and polarization vectors of one embodiment of the invention. By combining the N polar and Ga polar regions into one structure with a common top and bottom electrode the effects of the interface charges are cancelled.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention both Ga polar and N polar stacks of GaN AlGaN GaN may be grown on the same substrate in close proximity using appropriate buffer layers and growth conditions of either the MBE or MOCVD technique that is optimized for the appropriate Ga polar and or N polar Material. For instance the Ga polar material can be grown first followed by proper region masking and etching of the Ga polar material in certain regions and a growth of N polar material using the appropriate material preparation and growth conditions. The bottom and top ohmic contacts are deposited by any common technique that allows creating an ohmic contact to the GaN layers after growth of the GaPolar and N Polar stack. The top contacts are connected by using the usual air bridge technique. exhibits simulation results showing the nonlinear capacitance voltage results for one embodiment of the invention where the Al0.25Ga0.75N region is either 15 nm and 30 nm thick. This thickness is less than the critical thickness as calculated by others so that there is no relaxation and the polarization charges are that determined by spontaneous and piezoelectric polarizations as given by the equations of V. Fiorentini et al. Evidence for nonlinear macriscopic polarization in III Valloy heterostructures Appl. Phys. Lett. vol. 80 p. 1204 2002 hereby incorporated by reference. Since AlGaN is grown on GaN it is in tensile and the piezoelectric charges are parallel to its spontaneous polarization charges. 40 percent of the calculated values of the interface charges were utilized as had been done by Y K Kuo et al. Effect of polarization state on optical properties of blue violet InGaN light emitting diodes Appl. Phys. A vol. 98 p. 509 2002 since the equations represent a perfect case where there is no interface charges due to defects or impurities and no other lattice imperfections in the GaN and AlGaN layers. The energy bandgap related information comes from Vurgaftman J. R. Meyer Band Parameters for III Y compound semiconductors and their alloys Appl. Phys. Rev. vol. 89 p. 5815 2001 hereby incorporated by reference. demonstrates the important asymmetric nature of the current voltage curves.

As used herein the terminology varactor means a varicap diode varactor diode variable capacitance diode variable reactance diode or tuning diode is a type of diode which has a variable capacitance that is a function of the voltage impressed on its terminals.

As used herein the terminology Group III or Group 13 International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry IUPAC or the boron family of the periodic chart refers to one or more of the elements within. Group 13 boron family of the periodic chart. The boron group comprises boron B aluminum Al gallium Ga indium In thallium Tl and ununtrium Uut each of which has three electrons in their outer valence levels.

As used herein the nitrogen group is a periodic table group consisting of nitrogen N phosphorus P arsenic As antimony Sb bismuth Bi and ununpentium Uup .

The terminology layer as used in the following claims is not intended to be limiting including as to size shape or dimension. The layer as used in the claims may be part of a composite device composed of various layers or the layer may be a part of a uniform region. The terminology layer includes region. 

The terminology stack means a structure comprising layers. The terminology stack as used in the following claims is not intended to be limiting including as to size shape or dimension.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

