---

title: Consolidating disparate cloud service data and behavior based on trust relationships between cloud services
abstract: A method for consolidating cloud service data and behaviors can begin with the compilation of user/service membership data that associates requesting entities with subscribed cloud services by a trusted cloud service consolidator. A federated trust library housing inter-service trust information for the cloud services contained in the user/service membership data can be created. In response to a service request from a requesting entity, trusted secondary cloud services can be identified for the requesting entity. Identification of the trusted secondary cloud services can be based upon trust factors synthesized from data contained in the federated trust library. Data satisfying the service request and associated behaviors from each trusted secondary cloud service can then be consolidated into a unified data structure. A behavior can be an executable action supported by a trusted secondary cloud service. The unified data structure can be conveyed to the requesting entity in a service response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08813205&OS=08813205&RS=08813205
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08813205
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120206
---
The present invention relates to the field of cloud computing and more particularly to consolidating disparate cloud service data and behavior based on trust relationships between cloud services.

Cloud computing and the use of cloud services in business models and processed is becoming increasingly commonplace. As such the quantity of cloud services available to users and organizations has also increased. Users often subscribe to multiple cloud services that offer similar functionalities. For example a user may frequently participate in blog related discussions using multiple cloud services.

In such a situation the user is required to interact with each cloud service independently and manually collate similar information from the various cloud services which is time consuming. In order to overcome this problem some formal REST based methods have been developed that allow single sign on request handling between the user s cloud services. However this approach lacks scalability and the ability to consolidate the behaviors provided by the cloud services.

One aspect of the present invention can include a method for consolidating cloud service data and behaviors. Such a method can begin with the compilation of user service membership data that associates requesting entities with cloud services to which the requesting entities subscribe by a trusted cloud service consolidator. A federated trust library housing inter service trust information for the cloud services contained in the user service membership data can be created. In response to a service request from a requesting entity trusted secondary cloud services can be identified for the requesting entity. The trusted secondary cloud services can correspond to those cloud services that are associated with the requesting entity in the user service membership data. The trusted secondary cloud services may not be the target of the service request. Identification of the trusted secondary cloud services can be based upon trust factors synthesized from data contained in the federated trust library. Data satisfying the service request and associated behaviors from each trusted secondary cloud service can then be consolidated into a unified data structure. A behavior can be an executable action supported by a trusted secondary cloud service and can be executable upon the data satisfying the service request obtained from the trusted secondary cloud service. The unified data structure can be conveyed to the requesting entity in a service response.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a system for consolidating cloud service data and behaviors. Such a system can include cloud services user service membership data a federated trust library and a trusted cloud service consolidator. The cloud services can operate in a cloud computing environment and provide data and behaviors in response to service requests. The user service membership data can associate requesting entities with the cloud services to which the requesting entities subscribe. The federated trust library can contain inter service trust information for the cloud services contained in the user service membership data. The trusted cloud service consolidator can be configured to selectively consolidate the data and behaviors from cloud services into a unified data structure in response to a service request. The cloud services can be selected based upon a trust factor synthesized from the federated trust library. The trust factor can be a quantification of a level of confidence between a cloud service specified in the service request and other cloud services that a requesting entity consumes as defined in the user service membership data.

Yet another aspect of the present invention can include a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having embedded computer usable program code. The computer usable program code can be configured to compile user service membership data that associates requesting entities with cloud services to which the requesting entities subscribe. The computer usable program code can be configured to create a federated trust library of inter service trust information for the cloud services contained in the user service membership data. The computer usable program code can be configured to in response to a service request from a requesting entity identify trusted secondary cloud services for the requesting entity. The trusted secondary cloud services can correspond to those cloud services that are associated with the requesting entity in the user service membership data. The trusted secondary cloud services may not be a target of the service request. Identification can be based upon trust factors synthesized from data contained in the federated trust library. The computer usable program code can be configured to consolidate data satisfying the service request and associated behaviors from each trusted secondary cloud service into a unified data structure. A behavior can be an executable action supported by a trusted secondary cloud service and can be executed upon the data satisfying the service request obtained from the trusted secondary cloud service. The computer usable program code can be configured to convey the unified data structure to the requesting entity in a service response.

The present invention discloses a solution for consolidating cloud service data and behaviors for unified consumption by a requesting entity. A trusted cloud service consolidator can create and maintain user service membership data for requesting entities and a federated trust library containing inter service trust information for various cloud services used by the requesting entities. Upon receipt of a service request i.e. at run time the trusted cloud service consolidator can determine a trust factor for the service request and trust factors for other cloud services consumed by the requesting entity that may have content applicable to the service request. Data and behaviors from the cloud services whose trust factor satisfies the trust factor of the service request can then be consolidated into a unified data structure and conveyed to the requesting entity.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The requesting entity can represent a person software application or computing system that generates the service request . The requesting entity can utilize a client device to issue the service request . The client device can be a computing device capable of communicating with the trusted cloud service consolidator and the cloud computing environment hosting the cloud services over a network . The specific functionality provided by the client device can be dependent upon the requesting entity .

As shown in system the requesting entity can be a person and the client device can be a desktop computer. In this embodiment the requesting entity can perform actions in a user interface that result in the generation of the service request for a cloud service .

In an embodiment where the requesting entity is a software application or process the service request can be automatically generated by the requesting entity without the need for the user interface .

The service request can be an electronic message soliciting the performance of a service provided by the cloud service . In addition to typical requesting entity information e.g. identifier payment details the service request can also include contextual data .

The contextual data can represent environmental and or operating parameters of the requesting entity and or client device . Examples of contextual data can include but are not limited to client device type client device operating system geographic location client device operating mode network being used and so on.

Since the functionality of cloud services and cloud computing environments are well known in the art only the specific details of these elements as they relate to the present disclosure shall be discussed herein. The cloud computing environment can represent the hardware and or software components required to support operation of one or more cloud services .

It should be noted that although a single cloud computing environment is shown in system the cloud computing environment can be comprised of multiple cloud computing environments capable of communicating over the network . Further the cloud computing environments can be of varying types e.g. private public hybrid etc. and it can be assumed that the appropriate authentication information is available to cloud services that communicate across cloud computing environments of differing types and or security levels.

A cloud service can be the hardware and or software elements needed to perform and or provide a specific functionality. Cloud services can provide a variety of functionality to a requesting entity i.e. software as a service infrastructure as a service and platform as a service .

Further the cloud computing environment can host multiple cloud services that provide various functionalities. Embodiments of the present disclosure can focus on situations where the requesting entity utilizes multiple similar cloud services .

For example the requesting entity can belong to three separate blogging sites and want to view blog entries containing the term coconut . Conventional approaches can require the requesting entity to access the cloud service for each blogging site independently resulting in three separate service requests and three sets of search results.

Using system the requesting entity can issue a single service request and the trusted cloud service consolidator can provide a single result set that includes the search results from only trusted cloud services as well as behaviors. The trusted cloud service consolidator can be a software application configured to generate consolidated trusted service data and behavior for a received service request .

As shown in system the trusted cloud service consolidator can operate from an appropriately configured server having a data store that contains user service membership data and a federated trust library . The specific architecture and or configuration of the trusted cloud service consolidator can vary based upon implementation.

In one embodiment the trusted cloud service consolidator can be implemented as a Web service that operates from a Web server or as a cloud service operating upon a cloud server in the cloud computing environment . The requesting entity can interact directly with the trusted cloud service consolidator in this type of embodiment the service request can be addressed to the trusted cloud service consolidator .

This embodiment can be analogous to a meta search engine a single service given a service request that then compiles results from other cloud services.

In another embodiment the trusted cloud service consolidator can be a stand alone component as shown in system .

In yet another embodiment the trusted cloud service consolidator can be a component that is incorporated into an existing cloud service i.e. a plug in . In such an embodiment the trusted cloud service consolidator can be invoked whenever the cloud service receives a service request .

The trusted cloud service consolidator can include a data manager component and a trust factor calculator . The data manager can represent the functions of the trusted cloud service consolidator utilized in compiling and maintaining the user service membership data and federated trust library that are used as the basis upon which the trusted cloud service consolidator operates.

The user service membership data can record which cloud services a requesting entity subscribes i.e. is a member of . The federated trust library can be a repository for inter service trust relationship information provided by the cloud services .

It should be emphasized that capturing the directionality of the relationship between the two cloud services can be critical when using the inter service the trust information contained in the federated trust library . That is the level of trust between cloud service A to cloud service B can be different from the level of trust between cloud service B to cloud service A .

The trust factor calculator can be a component of the trusted cloud service consolidator designed to quantify the trust between two cloud services with respect to the requesting entity . The trust factor calculator can be configured to determine the trust factor of the requesting entity s service request and the trust factors for the relationships between the requested cloud service and secondary cloud services whose data and behaviors are being consolidated. The trust factor can be a quantification representing a level of confidence that one cloud service has in the data from another cloud service .

Upon receipt of the service request the trust factor calculator can assess variables related to the service request such as the contextual data . In an alternate embodiment the trust factor of the service request can be defined by the requesting entity .

A trust factor can then be determined for the relationship between the requested cloud service and the other cloud services consumed by the requesting entity as listed in the user service membership data by the trust factor calculator using the information contained in the federated trust library .

For example the trust factor between cloud service A and cloud services B C and D can be 1 3 2 and 1 respectively. If the trust factor calculated by the trust factor calculator for an incoming service request for cloud service A is 1 then the consolidated trusted service data and behavior created by the trusted cloud service consolidator would include data and behaviors from cloud services A B and D .

In another embodiment the calculation of the trust factor by the trust factor calculator can be influenced by additional parameters that are configurable by the requesting entity . For example the requesting entity can assign an importance i.e. weight value to the variables used by the trust factor calculator .

The consolidated trusted service data and behavior can represent the data and behaviors i.e. functions or actions from the cloud services that the trusted cloud service consolidator has determined to be trustworthy for the requesting entity and applicable to the service request . The consolidated trusted service data and behavior can be encapsulated in a service response and conveyed over the network to the requesting entity .

Thus the requesting entity can view the consolidated trusted service data and behavior in a unified format. Further the requesting entity can execute the behaviors associated with the source cloud service upon the corresponding data which is a functionality that is currently unavailable in conventional cloud service aggregation approaches.

It is important to note that the determination of the trust factor of the service request and generation of the consolidated trusted service data and behavior can occur at run time. That is these actions can be performed by the trusted cloud service consolidator dynamically in response to the received service request .

Further actions related to the creation and maintenance of the user service membership data and or federated trust library can be performed by the trusted cloud service consolidator on an as needed basis. Creation of these data collections and can occur prior to the activation of the trusted cloud service consolidator and then updated as changes to the requesting entity pool and their subscribed cloud services occur.

Network can include any hardware software and firmware necessary to convey data encoded within carrier waves. Data can be contained within analog or digital signals and conveyed though data or voice channels. Network can include local components and data pathways necessary for communications to be exchanged among computing device components and between integrated device components and peripheral devices. Network can also include network equipment such as routers data lines hubs and intermediary servers which together form a data network such as the Internet. Network can also include circuit based communication components and mobile communication components such as telephony switches modems cellular communication towers and the like. Network can include line based and or wireless communication pathways.

As used herein presented data store can be a physical or virtual storage space configured to store digital information. Data store can be physically implemented within any type of hardware including but not limited to a magnetic disk an optical disk a semiconductor memory a digitally encoded plastic memory a holographic memory or any other recording medium. Data store can be a stand alone storage unit as well as a storage unit formed from a plurality of physical devices. Additionally information can be stored within data store in a variety of manners. For example information can be stored within a database structure or can be stored within one or more files of a file storage system where each file may or may not be indexed for information searching purposes. Further data store can utilize one or more encryption mechanisms to protect stored information from unauthorized access.

Method can begin in step where the trusted cloud service consolidator can create and maintain the user service membership data and federated trust library. Performance of step can be achieved in a variety of ways that are commensurate with the specific implementation of the trusted cloud service consolidator such as through a registration process.

In step a cloud service request can be received from a requesting entity. Data and behaviors can then be consolidated from the requested cloud service and trusted secondary cloud services that the requesting entity also consumes in step . In step a service response containing the consolidated trusted service data and behaviors can be conveyed to the requesting entity.

Method can begin in step where the trusted cloud service consolidator can begin operation. For illustrative purposes it can be assumed that the trusted cloud service consolidator is being activated for the first time i.e. the user service membership data and federated trust library need to be created .

Values to populate the user service membership data for each requesting entity can be obtained in step . The requesting entities for which step is executed can vary based upon implementation.

For example requesting entities can be required to submit information for the user service membership data during a registration process for the trusted cloud service consolidator. Alternately in the embodiment where the trusted cloud service consolidator is a component of a specific cloud service the trusted cloud service consolidator can utilize a member listing for the cloud service and request information to populate the user service membership data from the requesting entity a public user registry and or other cloud services.

In step inter service trust information can be requested from the cloud services that the requesting entity if necessary. Received inter service trust information can be stored in the federated trust library in step .

In step it can be determined if a requesting entity joined a new cloud service or has discontinued using an existing cloud service. When a requesting entity has discontinued using a cloud service the entry for the discontinued cloud service can be removed from the user service membership data in step . Alternately step can be configured to mark the entry as discontinued or deactivated.

It is important to note that the federated trust library is unaffected when a requesting entity discontinues using a cloud service as that same cloud service can still be in use by other requesting entities.

When a requesting entity joins a new cloud service step can execute where the new cloud service is added to the user service membership data for the requesting entity. It can be determined in step if the federated trust library already accounts for the relationships between the new cloud service and the cloud services that the requesting entity already subscribes.

When the federated trust library already contains entries that cover relationships between the new and existing cloud services step can execute where the trusted cloud service consolidator can take no further action. When one or more relationships are not already contained in the federated trust library inter service trust information can be requested for the new cloud service relationships in step . In step the federated trust library can be updated with the received inter service trust information.

Method can begin in step where the trusted cloud service consolidator can receive a service request from a requesting entity. The trust factor for the service request can be determined in step . Step can utilize contextual data regarding the requesting entity and or service request.

In step secondary cloud services that are also consumed by the requesting entity can be identified in the user service membership data. The federated trust library can then be queried for relationships with the requested cloud service to the identified secondary cloud services in step .

In step trust factors can be calculated for each query result from the user service membership data for the requesting entity. The trust factors of the query results can be compared to the trust factor of the service request in step . In step it can be determined if at least one secondary cloud service satisfies the service request trust factor.

When at least one secondary cloud service satisfies the trust factor of the service request step can execute where the data and behaviors from the requested and trusted cloud services can be consolidated for the service request. The consolidated data and behaviors can be conveyed to the requesting entity in step .

When none of the secondary cloud services satisfy the trust factor of the service request step can execute where the data and behaviors from only the requested cloud service can be obtained. The requested cloud service data and behaviors can then be conveyed to the requesting entity in step .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

