---

title: Filling an order at an inventory pier
abstract: A system includes an inventory pier, a mobile drive unit, and a management module. The inventory pier includes a defined area arranged to station an inventory holder. The inventory holder stores an inventory item. The mobile drive unit is operable to transport an order holder. The management module is operable to calculate a metric associated with demand for the inventory item. Based at least in part upon the metric, the management module is operable to select, from a plurality of inventory holders, the inventory holder storing the inventory item to be stationed at the defined area of the inventory pier. The management module is further operable to receive an order for the inventory item and instruct the mobile drive unit to transport the order holder to the inventory pier. The order holder is operable to receive the inventory item from the inventory holder proximate to the defined area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009072&OS=09009072&RS=09009072
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09009072
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
Modern inventory systems face increasing demands to efficiently fulfill orders despite increasing complexity and diversity of inventories and orders. Inventory systems suffering from inefficient use of system resources face lower system throughput unfinished or delayed tasks and unacceptable response times. Accordingly such inventory systems face the challenge of making more efficient use of time space equipment and manpower in order to meet those rising demands.

Inventory systems are utilized by many entities for storing and managing inventory. For example some retailers may utilize a warehouse of racks that store inventory items in various bins. When an order for a specific inventory item needs to be filled by the retailer a worker typically retrieves the inventory item from the bin where the inventory item is stored.

Inventory systems of the present disclosure may utilize one or more mobile drive units to automatically retrieve inventory holders from warehouse storage. The inventory holders may be entire racks of shelves with each shelf having bins for various inventory items. Mobile drive units may be self powered robotic devices configured to move freely about the warehouse. Racks may be transported by mobile drive units to a station for performing inventory operations. The station may include a human operator and or automated equipment to remove desired inventory items from the inventory holders and complete orders. The ability for mobile drive units to transport inventory items to a station for performing inventory operations rather than or in addition to workers manually retrieving inventory items from stationary racks may vastly increase efficiency and productivity of the inventory system. For example by utilizing mobile drive units an inventory system may be capable of fulfilling more orders per hour than previous solutions. Mobile drive units may move about the warehouse and or retrieve inventory holders in response to commands and or instructions received from an automated guidance system. For example a management module may control administration and coordination of certain elements and or tasks within the warehouse. The management module may receive orders for inventory items in the warehouse and coordinate task assignments for fulfilling the orders including providing instructions to mobile drive units to transport racks with requested inventory items to an inventory station for completion of an order. The management module may also provide guidance at the inventory station for how the order is to be assembled.

To use a simple illustration in a distribution warehouse for an office supply store the management module may receive an order for a printer several ink cartridges and a box of paper. The management module may determine the locations of these items within the racks of storage in the distribution warehouse. The items may for instance be on the shelves of three separate racks. The management module may issue tasks for three different mobile drive units to retrieve each rack respectively holding the printer ink cartridges and paper and for the mobile drive units to transport the racks holding those items to an inventory station where the order for the three items may be packed into a box for shipment. In doing so the management module may coordinate the various tasks such that all of the orders received by the management module are fulfilled in an efficient manner.

In many inventory systems a small percentage of high velocity and or high volume inventory is responsible for a large percentage of overall system activity. High velocity inventory may refer to popular inventory that is requested by a large percentage of orders while high volume inventory may refer to inventory that is requested in large volumes by orders. Volume may refer to the physical amount of cubic space certain inventory items require in the warehouse. High volume inventory items may refer to large or bulky items and or items that are purchased in large quantities by individual orders. In a particular inventory system the top 1 of inventory items may account for over 20 of overall system activity. Highly popular items may require a correspondingly high use of mobile drive units to transport inventory holders to inventory stations. Similarly high volume inventory may require relatively more labor to replenish inventory holders storing such items such that breaking down such items into inventory holders may be less efficient than merely using the inventory for orders in the manner it arrives from a wholesaler. A more efficient method of filling orders for such items may be realized using an inventory pier. The inventory pier may store highly popular and or high volume inventory. Inventory holders that store popular or high volume inventory may be positioned along one side of the inventory pier. The inventory pier may accordingly be configured to include a configurable number of fixed positions for top inventory items. For an example inventory system storing 3 000 unique inventory items as few as thirty unique inventory items may account for a high percentage of system activity due to high velocity or high volume of such items. Thus in such an inventory system the inventory pier may include a sufficient amount of defined areas to store the 30 top inventory items at the inventory pier. Order holders may for example be racks of shelving that are configured to hold boxes or containers that will be used to fill orders for inventory items. Each box or container may be associated with a particular order. For instance an order holder may store a cardboard box that is to be used for shipping an order for several ink cartridges and several reams of paper. Order holders with orders needing such items may visit positions along the inventory pier corresponding to inventory holders storing inventory items needed by the orders. Operators may remove items from the inventory holders and place them into appropriate boxes or containers in the order holder. If necessary the order holder may then be taken to an inventory station to fill items remaining on the orders in the boxes or containers of the order holder.

To illustrate in the office supply example discussed above paper may be a high volume inventory item and ink cartridges may be a highly popular item. Accordingly a pallet of paper and an inventory holder storing various ink cartridges may be stationed at the inventory pier. An order for several packages of paper and an ink cartridge may be filled by moving an order holder a location along the inventory pier opposite to the pallet storing the paper where an operator may transfer the paper to the order holder. The order holder may then move to a location opposite the inventory holder storing the ink cartridges where the same or a different operator may transfer the ink cartridge to the order holder. If the requested printer is not already stored at the inventory pier a mobile drive unit may transport the order holder to an inventory station where another mobile drive unit may transport an inventory holder containing the printer so that the order can be filled.

Technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present disclosure include the ability to provide a system and method for fulfilling an order using an inventory pier. A technical advantage may include the ability to station high volume and or high velocity items at the inventory pier. As demand for inventory items changes within the inventory system a management module may include the ability to replace inventory at the inventory pier thus ensuring that the highest velocity and or volume items are available at the inventory pier over time. Another technical advantage may include the ability to group various orders into an order holder based on items in the orders being located at the inventory pier. Accordingly several orders may be fulfilled at substantially the same time by a single order holder transported by a single mobile drive unit. In addition multiple order holders may move along the inventory pier at the same time and or in parallel allowing orders in multiple order holders to be filled at substantially the same time. Accordingly the inventory system may be able to achieve greater operational efficiencies than would otherwise be realized using traditional techniques. An inventory system that uses an inventory pier to fulfill orders may be capable of devoting fewer mobile drive units to fulfill orders than an inventory system that used only inventory stations and or traditional picking methods. Moreover the drive time of mobile drive units that would otherwise be required to transport multiple inventory holders to fill orders for high velocity items may be reduced and or devoted to other tasks within the inventory system. Further technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention may include providing a flexible and scalable inventory storage solution that can be easily adapted to accommodate system growth and modification. Further technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention may include providing a flexible and scalable inventory storage solution that can be easily adapted to accommodate system growth and modification. Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims.

While specific examples having particular advantages are discussed herein various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages. Embodiments of the present invention and its advantages are best understood by referring to wherein like numerals refer to like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

Management module receives and or generates requests and may initiate particular operations involving mobile drive units inventory holders pallet holders order holders inventory items inventory pier and or other elements of inventory system . Management module may select components of inventory system to perform various operations and communicate commands instructions and or other appropriate information to the selected components to facilitate completion of these operations. Management module may receive orders for various inventory items and coordinate and administer various appropriate tasks to fill the orders. Management module may receive orders from any appropriate system or component and may alternatively or additionally generate tasks and assign tasks to various components of inventory system using any appropriate techniques. In particular embodiments management module generates task assignments based in part on orders including requests for inventory items that management module receives from other components of inventory system and or from external components in communication with management module . Based on the orders management module may identify particular operations to be completed involving inventory items stored or to be stored within inventory system and may represent communication of any suitable form. For example in particular embodiments an order may specify particular inventory items that have been purchased by a customer and that are to be retrieved from inventory system for shipment to the customer.

After generating one or more task assignments management module selects appropriate components to complete particular tasks and transmits task assignments to selected components to trigger completion of the relevant tasks. The relevant components then execute their assigned tasks. Each task assignment defines one or more tasks to be completed by a particular component. These tasks may relate to the retrieval storage replenishment and counting of inventory items and or the management of mobile drive units inventory holders pallet holders order holders inventory pier and other components of inventory system . Depending on the component and the task to be completed a particular task assignment may identify locations components and or actions associated with the corresponding task and or any other appropriate information to be used by the relevant component in completing the assigned task.

While the appropriate components of inventory system complete assigned tasks management module may interact with the relevant components to ensure the efficient use of space equipment manpower and other resources available to inventory system . For example management module may receive information from the various components of system regarding their current location state and or other characteristics. Based on its knowledge of the location current state and or other characteristics of the various components of inventory system and an awareness of tasks currently being completed management module can generate tasks allot usage of system resources and otherwise direct the completion of tasks by the individual components in a manner that optimizes operation from a system wide perspective. Moreover by relying on a combination of both centralized system wide management and localized component specific decision making particular embodiments of inventory system may be able to support a number of techniques for efficiently executing various aspects of the operation of inventory system .

As a result some embodiments of management module may by implementing one or more management techniques described below enhance the efficiency of inventory system and or provide other operational benefits. For example management module may determine particular inventory holders and or pallet holders to be stationed at inventory pier based on determining that when placed at inventory pier overall system activity may be reduced. Similarly management module may group orders into order holders and assign tasks to fulfill orders at inventory pier such that order fulfillment activities are optimized. A more detailed description of example operations of management module is discussed below with respect to .

Mobile drive units transport inventory holders pallet holders and or order holders between locations within a workspace associated with inventory system . Mobile drive units may represent any devices or components appropriate for use in inventory system based on the characteristics and configuration of inventory holders pallet holders order holders and or other elements of inventory system . In a particular embodiment of inventory system mobile drive units represent independent self powered robotic devices configured to freely move about the associated workspace. In alternative embodiments mobile drive units represent elements of a tracked inventory system configured to move inventory holder along tracks rails cables or other guidance elements traversing the associated workspace. In such embodiments mobile drive units may receive power through a connection to the guidance elements such as a powered rail. In some embodiments inventory system may include two or more different types of mobile drive units having various appropriate capabilities and specifications. Moreover although illustrated and discussed as though mobile drive units are a particular type of mobile drive unit mobile drive units may refer to various types of mobile drive units as appropriate. For example one type of mobile drive unit may be operable to transport pallet holders and or relatively large heavy or bulky inventory item . Another type of mobile drive unit may be operable to transport inventory holders order holders and or relatively lighter and or more compact inventory item . Mobile drive units may accordingly have various power trains load capacities and other appropriate specifications to transport particular inventory items in various types of inventory holders within inventory system .

Mobile drive units may be capable of communicating with management module to receive information identifying selected inventory holders transmit locations of mobile drive units or exchange any other suitable information used by management module or mobile drive units during operation. Mobile drive units may communicate with management module wirelessly using wired connections between mobile drive units and management module and or in any other appropriate manner. As one example some embodiments of mobile drive unit may communicate with management module and or with one another using Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 Infrared Data Association standards or any other appropriate wireless communication protocol. As another example in a tracked inventory system tracks or other guidance element upon which mobile drive units move may be wired to facilitate communication between mobile drive units and other components of inventory system .

Inventory holders store inventory items . In some embodiments inventory holders include multiple storage bins with each storage bin capable of holding a different type of inventory item . Inventory holders are capable of being carried rolled or otherwise moved by mobile drive units . Each inventory holder may have a plurality of faces and each bin may be accessible through specific faces of the relevant inventory holder . Mobile drive units may be configured to rotate inventory holders at appropriate times to present particular faces of inventory holders and the associated bins to an operator or other components of inventory system . An example embodiment of an inventory holder is illustrated in greater detail in .

Pallet holders represent a type of inventory holder operable to store pallets of inventory items . In some embodiments pallet holders are capable of being carried rolled or otherwise moved by mobile drive units . Pallet holders may store containers of bulk and or high volume inventory items . Accordingly pallet holders may in particular embodiments include a large quantity of inventory items having a single SKU. In some embodiments pallet holders represent containers holding inventory items as they are received from a wholesaler or distributor of the particular inventory items . Accordingly pallet holders may in some modes of operation be moved directly from a point of entry into inventory system to inventory pier in response to the volume and or velocity of inventory items on the particular pallet holder .

Trash holders store trash and or waste materials. Trash holders may represent a bin receptacle container or other structure configured to store the general types of waste materials generated by inventory pier which may be generated at inventory pier as a result of its operation. For example shrink wrap and or other waste materials may be removed from pallets on pallet holders as the pallets are broken down. As another example individual inventory items may be removed from packaging or other disposable containers as inventory items are used to fill orders. After that packaging or other disposable container is empty it may be placed into trash holder for disposal. Trash holders may in some embodiments be configured such that they may be transported by mobile drive units . Trash holders may interface with mobile drive units in a similar manner to inventory holders as is explained in greater detail below with respect to . From time to time management module may instruct one of mobile drive units to transport trash holder away from inventory pier to be emptied.

Order holders hold groups of containers in which inventory items may be packaged into orders. Containers may be configured to store orders for various inventory items . Order holders may have any appropriate structure and be configured to store containers in any suitable manner based on the type of containers utilized in inventory system or any other appropriate factors. In some embodiments order holders represent a type of inventory holder configured to carry pallets and that can be moved by mobile drive units . Order holders may include one or more platforms or shelves on which containers rest. Additionally or alternatively order holders may include a plurality of bins each holding containers of a different size or type. Order holders and or containers may be designated for shipment to a remote location such as a shipping destination. Containers represent any appropriate form of container into or onto which inventory items can be placed for storage shipping or other appropriate purposes. Examples of containers include but are not limited to boxes pallets bins cartons and envelopes. In particular embodiments containers are independent of the order holders in which containers are stored and as a result containers may be removed from order holders for processing or transferred to other order holders . As one example containers may represent boxes in which or pallets on which inventory items associated with a particular order may be stored for delivery and the relevant container may then be shipped to a customer associated with that order. As another example containers may represent bins or other containers in which inventory items may be placed for long term storage and then moved to a shipping location and or removed from inventory system . An example embodiment of a order holder and containers is illustrated in greater detail in . More detailed examples of mobile drive units inventory holders and order holders are discussed below with respect to .

Inventory items represent any objects suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in an automated inventory system . For the purposes of this description inventory items may represent any one or more objects of a particular type that are stored in inventory system . For example a given inventory item may represent a single stock keeping unit SKU of a unique inventory item. Thus inventory item may refer to a particular item and or may refer to a quantity of items having a particular SKU as appropriate. As one example inventory system may represent a retail distribution warehouse that stores bulk inventory items for retail facilities such as grocery stores and or merchandise warehouses. As another example inventory system may represent a e commerce warehouse facility and inventory items may represent merchandise stored in the warehouse facility. During operation mobile drive units may retrieve inventory holders containing one or more inventory items requested in an order to be packed for delivery to a customer. Moreover in particular embodiments of inventory system boxes containing completed orders may themselves represent inventory items.

Inventory pier represents any appropriate components for processing or handling inventory items such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Inventory pier includes a number of defined areas at which inventory holders and or pallet holders may be stationed. Inventory pier is arranged such that order holders are operable to be moved along the opposite side from defined areas of the inventory holders and or pallet holders . Order holders moving along inventory pier may receive inventory items from human operators and or automated equipment. Human operators and or automated equipment at inventory pier may be operable to remove inventory items from inventory holders and or pallet holders and move them to appropriate containers of order holders . Inventory pier may accordingly include appropriate display devices and or signaling equipment to indicate to an operator which inventory item to place into which container . In addition or alternative inventory pier may include one or more indicators that when activated provide an indication to an operator where a particular order holder is expected to stop and or slow along inventory pier to receive a particular inventory item . Indicators may be any appropriate audio and or visual signaling device such as a display interface light laser or other appropriate device capable of providing information to an operator of inventory pier .

Inventory pier may be controlled entirely or in part by human operators or may be fully automated. Moreover the human or automated operators of inventory pier may be capable of performing certain tasks to inventory items such as packing or counting inventory items as part of the operation of inventory system . Inventory pier may be divided into an appropriate number of work zones corresponding to each operator. The operators may work within each work zone. Work zones may be utilized by management module to balance and or coordinate assignments at inventory pier . For example inventory holders and or pallet holders may be assigned to the work zones based on balancing the relative velocities of inventory items among the various zones. As another example inventory holders and or pallet holders may be assigned to the work zones based on randomizing velocities of inventory items among the various work zones. Inventory pier may include one or more elevated and or flat surfaces configured to facilitate operator interaction with inventory holders pallet holders trash holders and or order holders . Additionally or alternatively inventory pier may represent area of a workspace designated for one or more of the activities described herein. Accordingly inventory pier may represent a virtual area of inventory system at which the activities described in the present disclosure are conducted. A virtual area defining inventory pier may be virtually bounded on two or more sides that are designated for the activities described herein including the positioning of inventory holders and or pallet holders on one side and or the movement of order holders to positions along the opposite side. Management module may define and or be programmed to interact with a virtual area of a workspace designated as inventory pier .

Defined areas may represent spaces adjacent to inventory pier at which inventory holders pallet holders and or trash holders may be positioned while orders are filled at inventory pier . Defined areas may have an area that corresponds to the dimensions of inventory holders pallet holders and or trash holders . Defined areas may represent fixed locations that are located along one side of inventory pier . Defined areas may represent virtual spaces that are defined by management module . It should be noted that while illustrated as contiguous spaces that are substantially similar in dimension to each other defined areas may have differing dimensions and or may be positioned in any appropriate location relative to inventory pier . For example defined areas may have dimensions that are different depending on the respective dimensions of inventory holders pallet holders and or trash holders . Accordingly in some embodiments defined areas may have different types designated for particular types of holders. In other embodiments defined areas may be dimensioned such that they are substantially interchangeable between the different types of holders that may be positioned at inventory pier . In some embodiments defined areas may simply represent an area along side inventory pier that is reserved for placing inventory holders pallet holders and or trash holders .

In general orders for inventory items are filled using inventory pier . Inventory items inventory holders and or pallet holders may be assigned by management module to inventory pier based on demand for inventory items . Orders for various inventory items may be filled by transporting order holders carrying various containers for orders to inventory pier where inventory items for the orders may be placed into containers . In some embodiments order holders may receive inventory items from other types of inventory stations before and or after receiving inventory items from inventory pier . After visiting inventory pier order holders may be transported to an inventory station to receive additional items and or be transported to a shipping station for shipment to another facility or end user as will be explained in more detail below. A detailed example of operation of inventory system will be discussed below with respect to . In particular techniques for facilitating order fulfillment at inventory pier is discussed below with respect to and additional techniques for selecting high velocity and or high volume inventory to station at inventory pier and for grouping various orders into order holders are also discussed below with respect to .

Mobile drive units may transport inventory holders pallet holders and or order holders by docking with and or coupling to a particular holder and moving the holder while docked. For example as illustrated mobile drive units respectively transport inventory holder and order holder . For sake of simplicity the transportation of inventory holder is described in more detail but the following description may similarly apply to some embodiments of pallet holders and or order holders . Mobile drive units transport inventory holder by moving beneath inventory holder and lifting a docking head that interfaces with a portion of inventory holder . The docking head may be controlled by an actuator of mobile drive unit operable to lift inventory holder when docked. The docking head of mobile drive unit may couple mobile drive unit to inventory holder and or support inventory holder when mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may utilize the docking head to maneuver inventory holder such as by lifting inventory holder propelling inventory holder rotating inventory holder and or moving inventory holder in any other appropriate manner. The docking head of mobile drive unit may also include any appropriate combination of components to facilitate such manipulation of inventory holder . For example in some embodiments a high friction portion may form all or a portion of the docking head which abuts a portion of inventory holder while mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . In such embodiments frictional forces created between the high friction portion of the docking head and a surface of inventory holder may induce translational and rotational movement in inventory holder when mobile drive unit actuates docking head.

In some embodiments mobile drive unit may be capable of rotating its docking head to rotate inventory holder while moving and or while stopped. In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit may be capable of rotating the docking head independently or as a part of the movement of mobile drive unit as a whole. For example mobile drive unit may rotate inventory holder as mobile drive unit executes a turn such that inventory holder continues to face the original direction of movement. While lifted mobile drive unit may control another actuator or actuators driving power to its wheels. Using the wheel actuators mobile drive unit may be capable of transporting inventory holder while the docking head is lifting inventory holder or while mobile drive unit is undocked and or uncoupled from inventory holder . As illustrated mobile drive unit includes a pair of stabilizer wheels in addition to the motorized wheels powered by one or more actuators.

It should be noted that while a particular method of docking with inventory holder is illustrated mobile drive units may dock with inventory holders by connecting to lifting and or otherwise interacting with inventory holders in any other suitable manner so that when docked mobile drive units are coupled to and or support inventory holders and can move inventory holders . While the description below focuses on particular embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder that are configured to dock in a particular manner alternative embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder may be configured to dock in any manner suitable to allow mobile drive unit to move inventory holder within inventory system . Additionally as noted below in particular embodiments mobile drive units represent all or portions of inventory holders . In such embodiments mobile drive units may not dock with inventory holders before transporting inventory holders and or mobile drive units may each remain continually docked with a particular inventory holder .

Inventory system may represent an order fulfillment facility of any appropriate type. For example inventory system may represent an e commerce warehouse a distribution center for retail chain stores a manufacturing facility or any other facility that may employ an inventory system to manage inventory and or fulfill orders. In many embodiments inventory items are ordered at different rates of ordering. Accordingly some inventory items are ordered with a much higher frequency than other inventory items . Likewise some inventory items may be ordered in much higher quantities than other inventory items .

Receiving stations induction stations inventory stations and shipping stations represent stations that include any appropriate components for processing or handling inventory items such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Stations represent locations designated for the completion of particular tasks involving inventory items. Such tasks may include the removal of inventory items from inventory holders the introduction of inventory items into inventory holders the counting of inventory items in inventory holders the decomposition of inventory items e.g. from pallet or case sized groups to individual inventory items and or the processing or handling of inventory items in any other suitable manner. In some embodiments stations may just represent the physical locations where a particular task involving inventory items can be completed within inventory system . Alternatively or in addition stations may represent both the physical location and also any appropriate equipment for processing or handling inventory items such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Stations may be controlled entirely or in part by human operators or may be fully automated. In some embodiments the operator may be automated equipment. Moreover the human or automated operators of inventory piers may be capable of performing certain tasks to inventory items such as packing or counting inventory items as part of the operation of inventory system . Moreover the human or automated operators of inventory piers may be capable of performing certain tasks to inventory items such as packing or counting inventory items as part of the operation of inventory system . Receiving stations induction stations inventory stations and shipping stations represent specialized stations suitable for performing particular types of processing tasks supported by inventory system . Some embodiments inventory system however may include stations that are in general capable of handling multiple types of tasks but at any given time configured to handle particular types of tasks.

Receiving stations represent stations at which tasks associated with receiving replenishment and or replacement inventory items take place. For example receiving stations may include a loading dock and appropriate processing equipment to intake new inventory items into inventory system . At receiving stations new inventory may be received broken down handled input into inventory system and or any other appropriate tasks associated with receiving inventory items into inventory system .

Induction stations represent stations at which tasks associated with assembling and or building order holders and or assembling containers for inventory items take place. For example induction stations may include appropriate materials and equipment to assemble containers and or group containers into order holders . Interfaces at induction stations may provide any appropriate components for assembling containers such as packing lists packing materials shipping labels and materials related to other appropriate shipping and packaging tasks. Induction stations may in some embodiments include appropriate devices and or interfaces to instruct an operator of the induction station how to assemble containers and or group containers into order holders . For example a given order may include several inventory items . An operator may be provided instructions with what size container to use and into which order holder to place container . Particular containers may be associated with particular orders at induction stations . Thus when container receives an inventory item the order may be referred to as having received the inventory item as well or in the alternative.

Inventory stations represent stations at which in addition to or in the alternative to inventory pier tasks related to fulfilling orders take place. At inventory stations inventory items may be picked and or placed into containers of order holders . Inventory stations may include appropriate equipment to instruct an operator to remove a particular inventory item from inventory holder and place the inventory item into container of order holder . In some embodiments inventory stations may interface with conveyance equipment capable of transporting containers to shipping stations for shipment. Thus when a particular order is complete its associated container may be removed from order holder and placed onto the conveyance equipment for delivery to shipping station . In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit may move order holder away from inventory station and transport order holder to shipping station .

Shipping stations represent locations at which orders may be shipped to a destination such as an end user and or specified shipping destination for the orders. For example shipping stations may include loading docks and appropriate processing equipment to ship containers from inventory system . In some embodiments shipping stations and receiving stations may be at similar or same locations.

In operation orders for inventory items within inventory system are filled using inventory pier . As inventory is received into inventory system at receiving stations pallets of inventory items to replenish inventory system may be placed onto pallet holders and or broken down and placed into inventory holders . Selected inventory holders and or pallet holders may be moved by mobile drive units to defined areas along inventory pier . Inventory holders and pallet holders stationed at defined areas may hold relatively high velocity and or high volume inventory items .

As orders are received by inventory system order holders are assembled with appropriate containers at induction stations . Order holders are moved by mobile drive units along inventory pier to receive inventory items stored by inventory holders and or pallet holders at defined areas along inventory pier . If the orders on a particular order holder are complete after visiting inventory pier order holders may be moved to shipping station . If the orders are not complete order holder may be moved by mobile drive units to one or more inventory stations . As an example an order in order holder may not be complete after visiting inventory pier if the order includes one or more relatively less popular and or low volume items that are not stored at inventory pier . At inventory station particular inventory holders holding particular inventory items requested by orders in order holder may be transported from inventory storage to inventory station by mobile drive units . After completing the orders at pick station order holder may be transported to shipping station . It should be noted that while the illustrated example shows that mobile drive units transport order holders from induction stations to inventory pier that is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments mobile drive units may transport a given order holder to one or more inventory stations or other locations within system before transporting order holder to inventory pier .

Management module may assign inventory holders and pallet holders to defined areas at inventory pier . Management module may designate particular inventory holders and or pallet holders to be stationed at defined areas of inventory pier . The designation may be based on and or in response to the product velocities and or volumes of inventory items respectively stored in inventory holders and or pallet holders . In some embodiments management module may examine various orders within inventory system to determine a best combination of inventory items to store at inventory pier . A best combination may in some embodiments be based on determining that the highest total number of orders may be completed at inventory pier with a particular inventory holder and or pallet holder . For example if paper and ink cartridges are respectively the highest volume and highest velocity items and are selected to be stationed at inventory pier management module may select a particular high selling printer to station at inventory pier because many orders request a combination of paper ink cartridges and printers. In some embodiments the printer may be selected over another higher popularity item based on determining the printer will complete more total orders at inventory pier .

Management module may assign inventory holders and or pallet holders to defined areas at inventory pier according to any appropriate algorithm logic and or decision making process. For example management module may calculate the product velocities of the various inventory items in inventory system . Management module may assign inventory holders and or pallet holders to defined areas at inventory pier in response to product velocity statistics of inventory items . Some inventory systems face large fluctuations in product velocity. For example the release of a new product may spark a surge in orders for those items. As another example holiday and or seasonal inventory items may sell at different rates depending on the time of year. Product velocity may refer to the frequency of orders requiring particular inventory items and or types of inventory items within system in a given time period. In some embodiments product velocity may refer to the relative numbers of each inventory item and or type of inventory item required and or predicted to be required by orders within system . For example an inventory item may have a relatively high product velocity if that inventory item is more frequently required by orders within system as compared to other inventory items. In some embodiments product velocity may refer to the quantity demanded of a given inventory item in a given time period. Alternatively or in addition product velocity may simply refer to the quantity of an inventory item requested by open and or received orders within inventory system . In some embodiments velocity may refer to some appropriate combination of historical velocity known demand and expected demand.

Product volume may refer to the relative quantities of inventory items requested by particular orders. For example particular products may be ordered in bulk quantities such as by the case and or by the pallet. For such inventory items it may not be efficient to break down the cases and or pallets to place them into inventory storage . Product volume may additionally or alternatively refer to the cubic volume of a particular inventory item ordered within inventory system . Large and or bulky inventory items may take relatively more labor to integrate into inventory holders than less sizable and or bulky items. Thus management module may calculate product volumes for various inventory items and determine to station pallet holders holding such items at inventory pier . In some embodiments management module may determine product velocity and product volume of various inventory items and determine whether to station inventory items at inventory pier based on product velocity and product volume statistics.

Management module may accordingly calculate product velocity and or product volume statistics for inventory items . Product velocity may be determined based on past order information historical ordering trends current orders within inventory system present order information known and or expected demand and or predicted future order information sales information and or any other appropriate information useful to determine known or expected demand for inventory items within inventory system . Based on product velocity and or product volume management module may determine inventory items that have relatively high popularity and or high volume. Inventory items with high popularity may refer to items that are requested with relatively high frequency by a plurality of orders. Such inventory items may generally result in management module generating a correspondingly high number of task assignments to fulfill orders for such inventory items . Management module may assign pallet holders and or inventory holders based on determining that the assignment will reduce the amount of task assignments generated to fulfill orders for such items using inventory pier .

Management module may consider various such metrics associated with demand for inventory items in selecting inventory items to station at inventory pier . For example management module may determine a number of inventory items having the highest product velocities and or product volumes to assign to inventory pier . As another example management module may determine a number of products with the highest known or expected demand. The number of inventory items chosen may correspond to the number of defined areas for inventory holders and or pallet holders at inventory pier . In some embodiments management module may compare the velocities to a predetermined threshold to determine whether an inventory item is to be stationed at inventory pier . For example inventory item may be required to generate at least a predetermined amount of system activity and or task assignments to be eligible for placement at inventory pier . Additionally or alternatively management module may determine inventory items having the highest velocities based on comparing sorting or otherwise analyzing the velocities of the various products to determine the ones with highest velocities.

To provide a more specific example a particular embodiment of inventory pier may include thirty defined areas . Management module may determine an appropriate number of inventory items to fill the thirty locations at inventory pier with inventory holders and or pallet holders . For example a pallet holder may hold bulk quantities of one particular SKU of a particular inventory item . Meanwhile a particular embodiment of inventory holder may carry several SKUs of various inventory items . High velocity items may be stored together in inventory holders such that multiple inventory items may be stored at one defined area at inventory pier in inventory holder . Returning to the office supply example discussed previously inventory holder may hold various SKUs of popular ink cartridges while a pallet holder may hold boxes of high volume paper having a single SKU. As a result while there may be for example thirty defined areas at inventory pier management module may determine a higher number of inventory items to store at defined areas . For example management module may designate 50 60 or more SKUs of inventory items to be stationed at inventory pier .

It should be noted however that specific numbers herein are provided only for purposes of illustration and that any appropriate number of inventory items may be stationed at inventory pier depending on the configuration and arrangement of defined areas at inventory pier inventory holders and or pallet holders . For example management module may determine to store fewer inventory items than there are defined areas and or may accordingly assign multiple inventory holders and or pallet holders holding the same SKU or SKUs of inventory items . As another example the number of defined areas at inventory pier may change depending on the system activity of inventory system . Thus while an example number of defined areas has been discussed any appropriate number of defined areas may be used. Additionally or alternatively inventory pier may in some embodiments have a configurable number of defined areas depending on the number of highly popular and or high volume inventory items that are above a minimum threshold within inventory system at a particular time. It should also be noted that management module may be operable to group high velocity items into inventory holders at receiving stations at the time inventory items are received into inventory system . Management module may provide instructions to receiving stations to place particular inventory items into inventory holder . Thus inventory holders may be preconfigured to include high velocity inventory items so that they may be placed at appropriate times at inventory pier .

Based on selected inventory items management module may select inventory holder and or pallet holder holding the selected inventory items . Management module may then generate and or issue task assignments for mobile drive unit to transport that holder to defined area at inventory pier . In an example embodiment where inventory system stores 5 000 SKUs of unique inventory items and inventory pier is arranged with thirty defined areas management module may select a combination of up to thirty inventory holders and or pallet holders to station at inventory pier . Management module may in some embodiments select an inventory holder storing a best combination of inventory items to station at inventory pier . Additionally or alternatively the selection of inventory holder may be based on determining to complete a high number of lines of orders at inventory pier . A line of an order may refer to an individual line item in that order. A line may refer to a particular SKU on the order. For example an order for three different SKUs may have three lines. Management module may determine a total number of lines on orders expected to be completed by a particular inventory holder and or pallet holder when making a selection of an inventory holder and or pallet holder to assign to inventory pier . Based on a total number of lines completed management module may assign a score to a particular inventory holder and or pallet holder . Management module may thus assign scores to various inventory holders within inventory system and or may determine a highest relative score of each of the inventory holders and or pallet holders . Based on the inventory holder and or pallet holder with the best score management module may select that inventory holder or pallet holder . Management module may additionally or alternatively consider similar factors when determining how and what combinations of inventory items to place into inventory holders when replenishing inventory holders at receiving stations . It should be noted that while total lines completed are considered by management module in example embodiments management module may additionally or alternatively select particular inventory holders and or pallet holders based on total number of orders completed.

Management module may thus take into account product velocity and or total orders completed when selecting an inventory holder and or pallet holder for inventory pier . For example based on examining known demand and historical ordering trends for inventory items management module may select a combination of inventory items calculated to fulfill and or complete the most orders at inventory pier . In an example the five top selling items in an inventory system may respectively be paper ink cartridges pencils paper and printers. Based on determining that the most commonly ordered combination of the above products is ink cartridges paper and printers management module may thus select paper ink and printers to store at inventory pier .

Management module may in some embodiments schedule particular inventory holders and or pallet holders for placement at inventory pier . Management module may plan a schedule for transporting inventory holders and or pallet holders to inventory pier based on metrics associated with inventory items . For example management module may determine expected demand for inventory items . Based on expected demand management module may determine that a particular inventory holder should replace another inventory holder at inventory pier at some time in the future when the expected demand of inventory items of the other inventory holder is expected to be higher than inventory items in the inventory holder currently at inventory pier . Accordingly management module may build a schedule on which various inventory holders and or pallet holders will be available at inventory pier . Management module may also determine to fulfill certain orders in the future and or delay filling orders so that inventory items on various orders can be grouped together. Thus a greater number of those items will be requested at the time in the future and an inventory holder and or pallet holder holding those items may be moved to the inventory pier at that time. Management module may also determine how and or when to fill orders at inventory pier based on a determination of when various inventory holders and or pallet holders are scheduled to be transported to inventory pier .

Management module may in some embodiments select particular defined areas at inventory pier to place particular inventory holders or pallet holders . For example management module may select particular defined areas based on an expected work allocation at inventory pier . For example inventory pier may include various operators that each remove items from within a respective work zone in inventory pier . Based on an expected or actual workload of an inventory pier work zone management module may allocate inventory holders and or pallet holders to those particular zones. Any appropriate metric for workload may be used such as number of picks per hour or picks per minute or other appropriate metric operable to measure activity levels at inventory pier . Management module may balance a work allocation across the various work zones of inventory pier . In other embodiments management module may randomly assign inventory holders and or pallet holders with various velocity inventory items across the work zones. In some embodiments management module may assign pallet holders to a particular subset of defined areas while assigning inventory holders to another subset of defined areas . For example pallet holders may be grouped and or placed together at inventory pier . Pallet holders may for example be grouped into a particular work zone. As another example inventory holders may be grouped and or placed together at inventory pier which may be in a different work zone than pallet holders .

Management module may determine an optimal allocation of order holders and or pallet holders to the various defined areas of inventory pier based on the relative velocities of inventory items within the respective inventory holder or pallet holder . It should also be noted that inventory pier may have a configurable number of work zones depending on a total work amount that is expected to be completed at inventory pier at particular durations of time. For example during particularly heavy periods of work ordering and or system activity level of inventory system more operators may be assigned to inventory pier . Accordingly inventory management module may balance work allocations and or set rates at which orders are to be filled at inventory pier based on a number of operators at inventory pier . Management module may accordingly assign more work and or higher velocity items based on the number of operators. As is discussed in more detail below the number of operators may also affect the number and or type of order holders being transported to inventory pier for order fulfillment. Taking into account activity levels of inventory pier may assure that operators at inventory pier are not overworked and or given more tasks to complete than physically possible. Management module may also be able to assign appropriate amounts of work to inventory pier . In addition distributing inventory holders and or pallet holders to various defined areas based on product velocity may allow for a more orderly and or balanced flow of order holders as they move along inventory pier .

From time to time within inventory system demand for inventory items may change. For example inventory items may gradually lose popularity and or be replaced with other inventory items as new products and versions of products are released. For example new movies released on DVD may initially be highly popular but may decrease in popularity over time and or as new DVDs are released. Thus management module may be capable of tracking product velocities and or product of inventory items over time. For example management module may track known demand and or expected demand for inventory items . As demand for inventory items changes management module may issue appropriate task assignments to replace inventory items stored at inventory pier with other inventory items based on the changes. For example management module may determine that an inventory item stored at inventory pier has decreased in popularity below another inventory item currently stored in inventory storage . Management module may issue appropriate tasks to remove that inventory item from inventory pier and replace it with the one currently in inventory storage . In addition as inventory pier uses inventory items from the various inventory holders and or pallet holders inventory items stored in those respective holders may decrease. Accordingly management module may detect determine and or receive some indication that an amount inventory items in a given inventory holder and or pallet holder has fallen below a predetermined amount. The predetermined amount may for example indicate that the inventory holder and or pallet holder is running low on quantities of inventory items and or has run out of inventory items . Management module may accordingly issue task assignments to transport replacement inventory items to inventory pier . Management module may replace depleted inventory holders and or pallet holders with holders storing inventory items of the same type and or may replace depleted holders with different inventory items that have relatively higher velocities than the depleted inventory items .

In some embodiments the inventory holders and or pallet holders may be depleted at a faster rate on the side facing the inventory pier . For example a pallet holder may be depleted first of the inventory items within reach of an operator of inventory pier . Thus the side of a pallet holder closest to inventory pier may be depleted while a side facing away from inventory pier may still include an acceptable amount of inventory items . Accordingly management module may receive a status indication that inventory holders and or pallet holders at inventory pier should be rotated. Management module may accordingly issue appropriate task assignments for mobile drive units to rotate an appropriate inventory holder or pallet holder . More details on the particular operation and techniques for accomplishing this will be discussed below with respect to .

After selecting inventory holders and or pallet holders to be stationed at fixed stations at inventory pier management module may in particular embodiments assign tasks for particular mobile drive units to transport the selected inventory holders and or pallet holders to defined areas along inventory pier . For example management module may communicate task assignments to selected mobile drive units that identify the locations of the selected inventory holders and or pallet holders . Management module may select a mobile drive unit to assign the relevant task based on the location or state of the selected mobile drive unit relative to a particular inventory holder and or pallet holder an indication that the selected mobile drive unit has completed a previously assigned task a predetermined schedule and or any other suitable consideration. Management module may plan paths mobile drive units take from the current location of mobile drive units to the selected inventory holders and or pallet holders . In response to being assigned a task mobile drive units may request a path to the destination of the particular inventory holder or pallet holder . Management module may select a path between the current location of the requesting mobile drive unit and the requested destination and communicate information identifying the path to the mobile drive unit . Management module may utilize knowledge of current congestion historical traffic trends task prioritization and or other appropriate considerations to select an optimal path for the requesting mobile drive unit to take in getting to the destination. Additionally in planning the path or in assigning tasks management module may make informed decisions regarding the use of lifts conveyors ramps tunnels and or other conveyance equipment or features of inventory system to facilitate the movement of the relevant mobile drive unit within inventory system .

After receiving a path from management module the requesting mobile drive unit may then move to the destination of a selected inventory holder and or pallet holder traversing the path in a segment by segment manner. Before beginning a particular segment the relevant mobile drive unit may request permission to use the segment from management module . As a result management module may reserve the segment for use of that mobile drive unit . As a result management module may also be responsible for resolving competing requests to the use of a particular portion of inventory system . After reaching the inventory holder and or pallet holder mobile drive unit may couple dock or otherwise connect to the holder. For example mobile drive unit may move beneath the relevant holder and lift the holder using the docking head of the mobile drive unit. When moving beneath the holder mobile drive unit may align itself with a portion of the holder such that the center vertical axis of the docking head and or mobile drive unit is substantially aligned with the center vertical axis of the holder. After coupling docking and or connecting to the holder mobile drive unit may transport the particular holder to the selected defined area . At the selected defined area mobile drive unit may undock lower uncouple or otherwise disconnect from inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may then move away from inventory holder and or indicate its availability to management module to receive another task assignment.

According to the above principles each of the selected inventory holders and or pallet holders may be transported to inventory pier by mobile drive units . It should be noted however that while a specific example of how inventory holders and pallet holders are transported to inventory pier any appropriate method may be used. For example in some embodiments inventory holders may be transported to inventory pier by mobile drive units while pallet holders may be transported by some other transportation means such as by crane forklift conveyor or other industrial moving equipment capable of transporting pallets of inventory item . In some embodiments management module may be capable of utilizing one or more drift locations in conjunction with transporting inventory holders and or pallet holder to inventory pier . A more detailed discussion of drift locations and how they may be used to fulfill orders at inventory pier is discussed below with respect to .

During the operation of inventory system management module may at various times receive orders that request various inventory items . To fulfill orders for inventory items received by management module management module may arrange two or more orders onto order holder . Order holders may for example be arranged at induction stations . At induction stations one or more orders may be grouped into containers and arranged on order holders . Containers may be arranged on to order holders based on any number and types of factors including the size of containers the types of inventory items expected to be received in the containers the ability to receive inventory items for the orders from inventory pier or other various appropriate factors. In addition or the alternative management module may determine to group various orders based on the expected completion of orders within a given inventory holder at inventory pier .

Management module may determine to group orders associated with containers into order holders in any appropriate manner. For example management module may examine outstanding orders within inventory system to identify one or more inventory items responsive to orders for one or more inventory items. Management module may determine which inventory holders and or pallet holders store those inventory items . Management module may determine whether inventory items on the orders are stored at inventory pier and or in inventory storage . Management module may group orders based on determining that one or more inventory items requested by different orders are each located at defined areas at inventory pier . The orders may have associated containers to receive inventory items on the order. For example containers may be appropriately sized cardboard boxes or other containers suitable for shipping as discussed above. Accordingly an order holder may be arranged such that it holds various groups of containers associated with orders that are designated to receive inventory items at various locations along inventory pier .

Management module may be capable of arranging various configurations of order holders depending on outstanding orders and or various activity levels of inventory system . For example management module may arrange order holder such that it includes orders for inventory items that are all located at inventory pier . When such order holders are transported to inventory pier to receive inventory items on the orders in order holder all of the orders in that order holder may be completed at inventory pier . Management module may also arrange order holder such that it includes orders for inventory items that are located at inventory pier and inventory items that are stored in inventory storage . Such order holders may be partially completed at inventory pier and may be transported to various inventory stations so that inventory items in inventory storage may be transported to those inventory stations by mobile drive units . Management module may also arrange order holder such that it includes orders for inventory items located solely within inventory storage . Such order holders may be completed at inventory stations . These configurations of order holders may respectively be referred to as inventory pier only order holders mixed order holders and or inventory station only order holders .

Management module may determine what number and or configuration of order holders to assemble based on any appropriate considerations. For example management module may take into account activity levels and or work allocation of operators of inventory pier and or an overall workload of inventory pier . If management module determines that a workload of inventory pier is above a predetermined level management module may determine to build mixed order holders and or inventory station only order holders . The workload may refer to a number of picks per hour that are assigned amount of work assigned or other appropriate metric for measuring activity levels of inventory pier . For example operators of inventory pier may be capable of operating inventory pier at up to a predetermined and or maximum work rate. Management module may assign a workload to inventory pier that is calculated so that operators of inventory pier operate at substantially the predetermined and or maximum work rate. In some embodiments the maximum work rate may be used to determine an optimal and or maximum workload that may be assigned to inventory pier . Management module may determine to decrease and or increase work at inventory pier to achieve an optimal and or maximum workload. Based on that determination management module may select the number and configuration of order holders . If for instance a workload at inventory pier is above a minimum but below a maximum management module may determine to arrange a mixture of mixed order holders and or inventory pier only order holders based on a predetermined schedule. The predetermined schedule may be determined based on attempting to balance work keep the workload above the minimum and below the maximum the number of operators at inventory pier and or any other appropriate factors. If the workload at inventory pier is below a minimum management module may determine to assemble order holders consisting solely of inventory pier only order holders if possible while arranging order holders for inventory items located in inventory storage in separate order holders .

Management module may prioritize arrangement of orders and or order holders according to the above principles. For example management module may prioritize orders that are capable of being fulfilled at inventory pier over orders that consist of relatively more rare or less popular items that may be located in inventory storage . Alternatively or in the addition a separate induction station may be designated for handling orders for less popular inventory items . Management module may direct order holders to be assembled at other induction stations for such other items. In some embodiments management module may arrange order holders that include inventory items that are stored by inventory pier but may nevertheless decide to fulfill those orders from inventory stations rather than at inventory pier based on various factors such as the activity level considerations discussed above.

Management module may additionally or alternatively take into account where particular inventory items requested by various orders are stored at inventory pier when arranging an order holder . For example management module may attempt to balance a workload allocation across the various work zones of inventory pier . Management module may attempt to evenly distribute the number of inventory items received by a particular order holder as it moves along various locations at inventory pier and or balance the flow of order holders moving to inventory pier . To illustrate rather than receive five inventory items from one inventory holder at one defined area management module may arrange orders containing five different inventory items at five different defined areas along inventory pier . In some embodiments a SKU of a particular inventory item may be stored in two different locations. Management module may determine to fulfill orders in order holder that request the same SKU using two different inventory holders stored at inventory pier to balance the flow of work at inventory pier and or prevent spikes in inventory pier activity levels at particular times and or locations on inventory pier . It should be understood however that this example is for illustration purposes only. Management module may distribute and or balance work at inventory pier in any appropriate manner.

Management module may determine any appropriate combination of containers to arrange in order holder in order to minimize a number of order holders being transported to inventory pier . In some embodiments management module may determine to group orders based on reducing a total number of trips required by mobile drive units . As discussed above task assignments assigned to mobile drive units by management module may involve traversing a particular path to a destination. When order holders are transported to inventory pier a mobile drive unit may be required to transport order holder from an induction station to inventory pier . Afterwards mobile drive unit may transport order holder to inventory stations and or shipping stations . Orders may be grouped into order holders in order to minimize the number of trips required by mobile drive units and or reduce and or minimize the total length of trips required by mobile drive units . Thus management module may attempt to minimize the overall trips required by mobile drive units when arranging order holders .

After order holders are assembled mobile drive units may transport order holders to inventory pier and or other destinations within inventory system . Mobile drive units may transport order holders in response to appropriate task assignments from management module . Management module may assign tasks to mobile drive units to transport order holders to inventory pier using any of the aforementioned task assignments and or path planning techniques. Mobile drive units move order holder along inventory pier . As order holder moves along inventory pier order holder receives inventory items at locations along inventory pier along the side opposite to defined areas where inventory items are stored in inventory holders and or pallet holders . In some embodiments operators of inventory pier may transfer inventory items from an inventory holder and or pallet holder into an appropriate container of order holder . Management module may activate indicators such as lights or other visual indicators at inventory pier in order to indicate to an operator where to expect order holders to slow and or stop at the various locations where inventory items are to be received. Alternatively or in addition management module may transmit appropriate information to inventory pier to instruct the operators what inventory items to pick and into what container to place that inventory item of order holder .

Order holders may be transported along a side of inventory pier opposite defined areas according to a manner that facilitates operator interaction with order holders . In some embodiments order holders may be transported along a side of inventory pier such that the operator moves in a primary direction along with a given order holder until the operator reaches the end of a particular work zone of the operator. When the given order holder reaches the next work zone the operator of the next zone may begin to place items into order holder as appropriate. The operator of the first zone may then return to the far end of the zone and then continue placing inventory items into new order holders as they move in the primary direction along inventory pier . The arrival of orders holders at the start of a particular work zone may be timed according to when the operator returns to the start of the work zone. A more detailed discussion of order holders moving along inventory pier as well as how indicators at inventory pier may instruct operators on transferring inventory items will be discussed below with respect to .

After appropriate inventory items are received into containers of order holders mobile drive units may continue moving order holders to appropriate locations within inventory system . If the order is not complete the order holder may be transported by mobile drive units to an appropriate inventory station so that additional items may be received. Additional inventory items may be received by orders in order holders while at inventory station . Additionally or alternatively inventory station may prepare the container in order holder for shipment to the end user and or shipping destination. For example operators may perform order finalization tasks such as adding protective packing materials to containers and or closing taping sealing and or performing other tasks in preparation for shipping containers . Once the order is complete order holder may be transported by mobile drive units to shipping station for shipment. It should be noted however that in some embodiments inventory station may be utilized to complete and ship orders. Additionally or alternatively shipping station may perform the order finalization tasks described above.

While order holder is stationed at inventory station management module may locate additional inventory items within inventory storage . Management assign tasks for mobile drive units within inventory system to transport particular inventory holders that are storing the remaining inventory items needed by the orders of container to inventory station . For example any appropriate techniques may be used at inventory station to facilitate the transfer of items from inventory holders that are located in inventory storage to container of order holders . After order are complete at one or more inventory stations order holders and or containers may be moved and or transported to shipping stations for shipment to an end user and or shipping destination. Mobile drive units may transport order holders to shipping stations for final shipment preparation as discussed above.

Inventory storage may be arranged between the inventory piers such that mobile drive units may be capable of swapping inventory holders and or pallets out based on product velocity and or volume according to the above techniques. In addition receiving stations may be arranged such that the paths traveled by order holders within inventory system are shortened. Thus receiving stations may be located in the vicinity of an areas of inventory storage that store inventory items that are received by those particular receiving stations . As illustrated receiving stations are positioned between inventory piers such that they are accessible by mobile drive units operating in the vicinity of a particular area of inventory storage . In addition or in the alternative receiving stations may be arranged so that operators may have a path to and from inventory piers without crossing paths of mobile drive units . It should be noted however that while a particular arrangement of inventory piers induction stations shipping stations and receiving stations are illustrated any particular geometry and layout of inventory system may be appropriate and may be used. Moreover any appropriate number and or type of inventory piers may be used.

In operation after mobile drive unit visits inventory pier mobile drive unit may transport order holder to inventory pier if order holder has orders that request inventory items that are stored at inventory pier . After receiving inventory items from inventory pier and after visiting inventory mobile drive unit may transport order holder to inventory pier . Alternatively if no inventory items at inventory pier are needed by order holder mobile drive unit may proceed to inventory pier without visiting inventory pier . In some embodiments mobile drive unit may proceed to shipping station after visiting inventory pier and or if the orders in order holder have received all requested items and or are ready to be finalized for shipping after visiting one or more of those inventory piers . Accordingly order holder may in some embodiments visit only the inventory piers that have inventory items requested by orders in order holder . In addition or the alternative management module may be operable to balance work allocation amongst each inventory pier in an inventory system such that a workload over a maximum and or below a minimum amount is avoided. For example inventory piers and may each store a particular inventory item . Management module may determine that a particular order holder should receive that particular inventory item from inventory pier rather than inventory pier based on determining that the workload at inventory pier is lower than the workload at inventory pier . It should be noted that a specific example of work allocation balancing is discussed for illustration purposes management module may determine to balance workloads at inventory piers in any appropriate manner. Management module may also allocate inventory holders and or pallet holders to various defined areas of various inventory piers according to the previously discussed balancing techniques.

Inventory system may facilitate fulfillment of orders at inventory pier according to an order packing arrangement utilizing a technique herein referred to as drifting. Drifting may allow components of inventory system during the completion of a particular task involving that element to move towards a particular destination or otherwise be positioned so as to reduce a travel time to the relevant destination. In the context of facilitating the fulfillment of orders at inventory pier drifting may be used to gather inventory items to the vicinity of inventory pier such that they are nearby when defined areas become available. The inventory items that are drifting may be expected to be needed by one or more order holders in the near future. Thus the time required to swap out and or replace inventory items stationed at inventory pier may be reduced over less sophisticated techniques.

 Drift locations represent locations in the vicinity of the inventory station in the warehouse designated for a mobile drive unit carrying an inventory holder to drift until the appropriate time to pack the inventory needed by the order. Drift locations may be used as locations where popular inventory items may be swapped out in and out of defined areas along inventory pier at particular times and or on an as needed basis. For example drift locations may be utilized to keep an inventory holder in the vicinity of inventory pier that is low on inventory items and or has recently been replaced with another inventory holder storing higher velocity inventory items . Management module may realize various efficiencies by keeping such inventory holders in the vicinity of inventory pier such as having them available to be placed at one of defined areas when order holders arrive at inventory pier . Accordingly some embodiments of system may utilize drifting to anticipate tasks to be completed and to position the relevant components so as to reduce the time required to complete the anticipated tasks. Drifting may reduce congestion caused by using less sophisticated techniques. Utilization of drift locations may allow for fulfillment of a particular order that involves the completion of several tasks by inventory system while reducing the time that inventory system spends completing such tasks and improving system throughput. Drifting may additionally or alternatively allow for more efficient use of the finite physical area available within inventory system . An example embodiment of inventory system including drift locations is herein described.

Management module may determine to send a particular inventory holder and or pallet holder to a particular drift location in response to detecting a first triggering event or events . In particular embodiments the relevant element may remain in the particular drift space or a particular group of drift locations until a second trigger event or events occurs. After the second trigger event occurs the element may then move toward the relevant system resource for completion of the task. In particular embodiments spaces may be statically designated as drift locations while in alternative embodiments spaces may be dynamically designated as drift locations depending on the resource needs of inventory system the availability of spaces and or other appropriate considerations. As described further below drift locations may be utilized in various ways to improve throughput or otherwise increase system efficiency of certain embodiments of inventory system including but not limited to facilitating fulfillment of orders at inventory pier .

Management module may determine to move an inventory holder and or pallet holder away from inventory pier in response to a first triggering event such as determining that an amount of inventory in the respective holder has fallen below a predetermined amount. In some embodiments management module may determine that inventory items of a nearly depleted inventory holder has also decreased in popularity beneath other inventory items . Drift locations may thus be used to keep an inventory holder with low inventory items near inventory pier so that it can be used as necessary to fulfill orders for those inventory items . As another example a particular inventory holder may include inventory item that has decreased in product velocity and a more popular item is moved to defined area at which inventory holder was previously stationed. Rather than moving inventory holder holding such inventory items to inventory storage for example that inventory holder may be moved to a drift location so that it is available in the vicinity of inventory pier for future orders. Management module however may determine that the inventory items are still relatively more popular than others stored in inventory storage and or are expected to be needed by orders in the near future. Greater efficiencies may be realized by leaving such inventory holders in the vicinity of inventory pier rather than moving the inventory holders to inventory storage if those inventory holders are likely to be needed in the near future.

As shown several drift locations to are disposed in the vicinity of inventory pier . As shown a particular inventory holder may be moved to a drift location in response to management module detecting one of the triggering events discussed above which may cause management module to transfer inventory holder from defined area to drift space

As other inventory holders drift inventory holder may drift at one or more of drift locations to . In some embodiments drift locations to may serve as a random access buffer for inventory holders . Thus inventory holder may be assigned to a random available drift location to . Inventory holder may remain in the assigned drift location to until a second triggering event occurs. Additionally or alternatively drift locations may act as a sequential queue. Inventory holder may drift through locations to as sequential locations become available. It should be noted however that while drift locations to are illustrated as being adjacent to each other that need not necessarily be the case. In some embodiments drift locations may be contiguous and or separated from each other. Moreover in some embodiments drift locations may be located in discretely located groups of drift locations as appropriate. In response to detecting a second triggering event management module may determine to move inventory holder back to defined area along inventory pier . For example order holder requiring inventory items stored by inventory holder may be transported to inventory pier and or be expected to be transported to inventory pier in the near future. As illustrated this technique may be utilized with several inventory holders as appropriate to drift various holders in the vicinity of inventory pier . Thus such inventory holders will be available to be stationed at defined areas more quickly than would otherwise be possible using less sophisticated techniques.

As another example of a triggering event that causes management module to determine to drift an inventory holder it may be determined that inventory holder at defined area is expected to run out and or run out of inventory items in the near future thus inventory holder may be transported to drift location with the expectation that inventory holder will soon replace inventory holder . Inventory holder may for example store additional inventory items of the same SKUs as those stored by inventory holder . As another example it may be expected that inventory items by inventory are expected to fall below a certain relative product velocity and items in inventory holder may have a relatively higher product velocity. Inventory holder may be ready in drift location to replace those items in inventory holder when appropriate.

Management module may in some embodiments determine to drift one or more order holders . Management module may determine to drift one or more order holders in response to detecting a first triggering event. The first triggering event may for example be determining that the workload of inventory pier exceeds a predetermined and or maximum amount. For instance all of the available locations at inventory pier may be taken by other order holders . Management module may instruct mobile drive unit to transport order holder to a drift location proximate to inventory pier . In response to a second triggering event management module may instruct mobile drive unit to transport order holder from the drift location to inventory pier . For example a second triggering event may be determining that the workload of inventory pier is below the predetermined and or maximum amount. Other examples of triggering events that may trigger drifting of order holders include determining that an inventory holder and or pallet holder that has inventory items requested by one or more orders in order holder is not at inventory pier but will be at inventory pier in the near future. For example the inventory holder having the requested inventory item may itself be in a drift location . As another example pallet holder may be in the process of undergoing a rotation maneuver as is explained in more detail below. Thus management module may determine to drift order holder until the desired inventory holders and or pallet holders are located at inventory pier . Moreover order holders may be sent to drift locations after receiving inventory items at inventory pier if management module determines that additional inventory items requested by order holders will be transported to inventory pier in the near future. Order holders may first receive all available inventory items requested by orders in those order holders before moving to drift locations . In some embodiments however management module may determine to send an order holder to a location in inventory storage under some conditions. For example order holder may request inventory items that are available only at inventory pier but are not scheduled to be transported to inventory pier until after a amount of time has lapsed that is greater than a predetermined threshold. Alternatively or in addition management module may select particular order holders to transport to inventory pier based on an amount of time since those order holders were assembled at induction station .

As illustrated indicators are arranged at various points along inventory pier opposite to defined areas of inventory holders and or pallet holders . As order holders move along inventory pier indicators may be activated in order to instruct an operator where to expect inventory order holders to stop or slow along inventory pier . Indicators may generally be disposed opposite to each defined area . It should be noted that while illustrated as being discrete indicators any appropriate method of communicating where order holder will be may be used. For example a display screen may be disposed at various locations along inventory pier that instruct operator where to expect an order holder to stop and or slow and additionally may instruct operator which items to move from inventory holder and or pallet holder .

In the illustrated embodiment order holder will stop proximate to indicator . Management module may accordingly activate indicator . The operator may proceed to indicator . At indicator the operator may place appropriate inventory items from inventory holder opposite to indicator into an appropriate container of order holder . In some embodiments indicator or some other piece of equipment at inventory pier may instruct the operator to pick particular inventory items and or instruct the operator to place the particular inventory items into particular containers of order holder . For example an indicator may display a light or other visual indicator indicating which container is to receive inventory items from a given inventory holder . Similarly in the second work zone the other operator may receive a signal from indicator indicating that order holder will stop and or slow proximate to indicator . According to these techniques orders may be fulfilled at inventory pier in a more efficient manner than would otherwise be possible.

Mobile drive units may be operable to avoid collisions with other mobile drive units while moving along inventory pier . For example as order holder moves along inventory pier management module may determine the next location to receive an inventory item . Management module may determine whether another order holder is blocking the path between the order holder and the next location. If order holder is not blocking and no others are blocking then management module may activate indicator at the next location and mobile drive unit may transport order holder to indicator . If order holder is in the way management module may determine the destination of order holder . If the destination of order holder is past the next location of order holder then indicator may be activated. Otherwise management module may delay activation of indicator until order holder no longer has a blocking destination along the path of order holder and or clears the intended path of order holder . This method also avoids confusion for operators because the operator will know that an indicator activation corresponds to the preceding order holder .

At after appropriate inventory holders and or pallet holders are selected to station at inventory pier management module instructs mobile drive units to transport inventory holders and or pallet holders to inventory pier . Mobile drive units may retrieve the selected inventory holders and or pallet holders and transport them to appropriate defined areas of inventory pier according to techniques discussed above.

At step management module may determine whether defined areas at inventory pier remain available. If additional defined areas remain to be filled the method may return to step at which additional inventory holders and or pallet holders may be selected to station at inventory pier . It should be noted that while illustrated as happening in succession management module may select all inventory holders for each defined area at substantially the same time. Moreover steps to may occur at various times and or continuously within inventory system as demand for inventory items changes. Moreover in some embodiments management module may determine to leave some defined areas unfilled. Management module need not designate all defined areas at inventory pier for inventory holder and pallet holders . For example management module may leave some defined areas unfilled due to workload constraints overall system activity or other various factors. Alternatively or additionally one or more defined areas may be designated as locations for a trash holder or other waste receptacle. In some embodiments the trash holder and or waste receptacle may be operable to be transported by mobile drive unit . Accordingly packing material and or or other waste products are generated by inventory pier the waste materials may be placed into trash holder at defined area . At appropriate times and or when full the trash holder may be transported away from inventory pier by mobile drive unit .

At step management module may receive orders for various inventory items . For example orders may from time to time be received by inventory system . It should also be noted that orders may be received before during and after the process of assigning inventory holders and or pallet holders to defined areas described in steps to . Thus step may occur sequentially and or in parallel to steps to . Moreover orders may be received when reassigning new inventory holders and or pallet holders to defined areas as appropriate.

At step management module may determine whether to satisfy one or more requests for inventory items on the order at inventory pier . For example based on work allocations and or a total work load at inventory pier management module may determine to fill all and or part of the order at an inventory station rather than inventory pier . In some embodiments management module may determine to fill part of an order at inventory station and part of the order at inventory pier . Management module may also determine a sequence of inventory stations and or inventory piers for an order to visit as the order is filled. The sequence may be any appropriate sequence including visiting one or more inventory stations first or visiting one or more inventory piers first. Alternatively or additionally management module may determine an appropriate type of order holder to be arranged. For example order holder may be arranged as an inventory pier only order holder mixed order holder and or a inventory station only order holder . The decision making process of how to treat a given order may occur according to any of the aforementioned work balancing and or allocation techniques. In some embodiments management module may determine where to send an order holder while order holder is in the process of receiving inventory items . For example management module may determine to fill the order and or part of the order on order holder with inventory items positioned at inventory pier . Conversely management module may determine to fill an order and or part of an order on order holder at inventory station . After receiving those inventory items management module may determine whether to fill additional orders and or additional lines of the order on order holder inventory items at inventory pier and or inventory station . As an example management module may determine where to send order holder based on examining open lines of orders on order holder for requested inventory items that have not yet been received and or determining where in inventory system such inventory items are located. Additionally or alternatively management module may determine to fill an order at one or more of inventory pier and inventory station but may decide to wait a predetermined amount of time before instructing mobile drive units to transport order holder to one or more of those locations. For example based on one or more triggering events discussed above management module may determine to transport order holder to a drift location before continuing to fill orders on order holders . As another example management module may determine to delay assembling a particular order based on one or more conditions of inventory system . Management module may accordingly also take into account how long an order has been pending in determining whether or not to fill that order and or to fill another order first.

At step management module may determine an arrangement for order holder to be transported to the inventory pier to fill the order. For example management module may determine to group two or more orders into a particular order holder such that both orders may be completed by one order holder . More details on how step may be completed according to an example operation of inventory system are discussed below with respect to . After the order holder is arranged at step management module may instruct one or more mobile drive units to transport order holder to inventory pier so that items may be received into container of order holder . It should be noted that step may be performed based on the type of order holder management module determines to arrange at step . Moreover while illustrated as occurring if management module determines to fill all and or part of the order at inventory pier step may be performed even if management module determines to fill the order at inventory station at step . For example management module may determine to arrange the order into an inventory station only order holder and or may group the order onto an order holder along with other orders that are designated to be filled at inventory station .

At step mobile drive unit moves order holder to locations along inventory pier such that order holder may receive inventory items according to the orders associated with each container that it holds. Containers may receive inventory items according to their associated orders at step . For example an operator of inventory pier may at a location where order holder stops and or slows transfer an appropriate inventory item into an appropriate container of order holder .

At step after inventory items are received at inventory pier management module may determine whether the orders in order holder are complete. If the order is complete then at step management module may instruct mobile drive to transport the order holder to inventory station and or shipping station for shipment preparation and or shipping to final destination. If one or more orders on order holder are not complete then the method may proceed to step where management module may determine whether to fill remaining open lines of orders on order holder at inventory pier and or inventory station . For example management module may determine at step that additional items requested by orders on order holder will be available in the near future at inventory pier . Management module may thus instruct mobile drive unit to transport order holder to a drift location in the vicinity of inventory pier and or wait for that inventory to become available. As another example management module may determine at step that open lines of orders on order holder request inventory items that are located in inventory storage .

Management module may at step instruct mobile drive unit to transport order holder to inventory station so that any items that should be placed in containers in order holder may be received at step . For example management module may determine to fill lines of orders on an inventory station only order holder and or mixed order holder at inventory station . Step may occur before after and or in the alternative to mobile drive unit transporting order holder to inventory pier .

At step while order holder is located at inventory station management module may locate requested inventory items that are stored in inventory holders and or pallet holders in inventory storage . Based on the location of the stored inventory items management module may instruct one or more mobile drive units to move to the location of inventory holders and or pallet holders storing those inventory items within inventory storage . At step mobile drive units may transport said inventory holders and or pallet holders storing the requested inventory items to inventory station .

At step inventory items stored by the inventory holders transported to inventory station may be received by the appropriate container of order holder . After container receives the requested inventory item from inventory holder management module determines whether the orders are complete at step . If there are incomplete orders then method returns to step management module determines whether to fill additional lines of orders in order holder at inventory pier and or inventory station . If it is determined to fill additional lines of orders at inventory station order holder may remain at inventory station and additional inventory holders containing additional requested inventory items may be transported to inventory station . If it is determined to fill additional lines of orders at inventory pier the method may continue to step where order holder may be transported to inventory pier . Method continues until the orders in order holder are complete at step or . Once complete order holder is transported by mobile drive unit to inventory station and or shipping station for preparation and or shipment to an end user and or shipping destination.

The method of selection of inventory may proceed based on velocity and or order line completion. If inventory holder is selected based solely on velocity at step then the method proceeds to step at which the velocities and or volumes of available inventory items in inventory system are calculated at step . Velocities of available inventory items may be calculated on any appropriate metric including historical ordering trends and or the currently outstanding orders and or expected orders that are predicted to occur within the inventory system . As discussed above velocity may represent a relative rate at which orders include each inventory item and or may include the volume at which inventory items are ordered. Volume may refer to amounts of inventory items orders by particular orders and additionally or alternatively may represent physical volume in terms of the actual size of inventory items . Thus management module may determine to position inventory items at inventory pier based on the actual amount of space those inventory items take up. For example large and or bulky items may be selected for placement at inventory pier . In some embodiments management module may calculate the total system activity generated within inventory system by a particular SKU and or unique inventory item . Inventory holders and or pallet holders may be selected based on minimizing total system activity.

At step inventory holders and or pallet holders storing inventory items having the highest velocity are selected to be stationed at inventory pier . In an example embodiment inventory pier may have the top fifty inventory items positioned in ten inventory holders that are each located at one of ten defined areas along inventory pier where each inventory holder stores five of the top fifty inventory items . If one of the defined areas becomes available because for example one of the inventory holders runs low on inventory items and or one of the defined areas has yet to be filled management module may then select another inventory holder storing on average five of the highest velocity inventory items to position at that defined area . It should be noted that while particular numbers are provided by way of example any appropriate number and or combination of inventory holders and or pallets may be positioned at inventory pier and those inventory holders and or pallets may store any appropriate number and or combination of inventory items of various velocities.

If at step an inventory holder and or pallet holder is not to be based solely on velocity but also based on expected order line completions then at step the method continues to step at which the outstanding lines of orders that are satisfied by each inventory holder are calculated. For example management module may determine each inventory item stored by each inventory holder within inventory system . Management module may determine an amount of lines of orders that will be satisfied if that particular inventory holder is stationed at inventory pier . Based on the total number of outstanding lines of orders satisfied each inventory holder may be assigned a score. Step may additionally or alternatively base the selection of inventory holder and or pallet holder on expected total order completions of outstanding orders in inventory system . For example preferential weight may be given to an inventory holder that includes a combination of one or more inventory items that complete more actual orders than another inventory holder .

At step management module may determine an expected number of lines of orders to be satisfied by each inventory holder and or pallet holder . For example if the inventory system expects to receive a substantial number of orders for a particular inventory item that may be taken into account when scoring each inventory holder . Based on the totals determined in step and a total number of lines of orders satisfied by each inventory holder may be calculated at step and or an aggregate score assigned to each inventory holder . Step may additionally or alternatively base the selection of inventory holder and or pallet holder on expected total order completions of expected orders in inventory system . For example preferential weight may be given to an inventory holder that includes a combination of one or more inventory items that are expected to complete more orders that are predicted to be made in the future than another inventory holder .

Based on the totals for each inventory holder the inventory holder or pallet holder with the highest total number of line order completions and or best score may be determined at step . If the two highest inventory holders result in a tie then the method may at step proceed to step where the relative velocities of available inventory items in each inventory holder are calculated and one inventory holder or pallet holder with the highest velocity inventory item may be selected at step . If there is no tie then the method may proceed to step and the inventory holder with the highest total order completions and or best score may be selected. Step may additionally or alternatively base the selection of inventory holder and or pallet holder on the totals of expected outstanding orders completed and expected predicted orders completed. Moreover it should also be noted that method is discussed above as selecting a single inventory holder placed at a single inventory pier but a similar method may be used to select multiple inventory holders and or pallet holders at substantially all or a substantial portion of defined areas at one or more inventory piers . For example method may be used to select the top thirty inventory holders corresponding to thirty defined areas at inventory pier .

At step management module initiates arrangement of order holder . For example management module may initiate arrangement of an inventory pier only order holder a mixed order holder and or an inventory station only order holder . At step management module may select the first order to include in order holder . For example outstanding orders for inventory items may be examined to determine how many lines of each order request inventory items located at inventory pier and or how many lines request inventory items that are located in inventory storage . Outstanding orders may additionally or alternatively be examined to determine how many total inventory items on each order are located at inventory pier and or how many total inventory items on each order are located in inventory storage . Based on total inventory items and or total lines on each order are located at inventory pier each order may be assigned a score. Based on the type of order holder to be arranged and the score of each order management module may select an appropriate first order to begin arranging order holder . For example for an inventory only order holder management module may select a first order that has the best score most lines of inventory items and or most total inventory items located at inventory pier . If an inventory station only order holder is being arranged management module may select an appropriate order requesting inventory items that are located in inventory storage . If a mixed order holder is being arranged management module may select an appropriate order requesting inventory items that are located at inventory pier and or in inventory storage . It should be noted that the order may include multiple inventory items located at inventory pier particularly because as explained above management module may select inventory holders and or pallet holders that are calculated to satisfy the most orders. Thus it may be likely that a given order has all of its inventory items already located at inventory pier .

At step container associated with each order selected may be arranged on order holder . Management module may for example provide instructions to an operator of induction station regarding which container to add to order holder and or how to associate a given order with a particular container . Management module may additionally or alternatively instruct an operator where to place container on order holder . For example a particular order holder may have space for a particular size and or type of container on one shelf and may have space available for a different number of a different type of container on different shelves. Management module may take into account the sizes and or types of various containers when arranging orders on order holder . If order holder already has containers in it associated with other orders management module may determine how to place other containers in relation to those containers . Additionally or alternatively management module may take into account the space taken for a container chosen for an order in determining whether to arrange orders onto order holder at step and or step .

At step management module may determine whether additional space is available for additional order container in order holder . If there is additional space available then at step management module may determine one or more other orders to include in order holder . For example management module may add an order for other inventory items at the inventory pier and or may add an order for other inventory items at other locations within inventory system .

At step management module may additionally or alternatively determine other orders that also include inventory items at inventory pier . Based on the orders that include inventory items that are also located at inventory pier management module may select orders to be arranged on order holder . For example management module may select two or more orders to group into order holder . The two or more orders may include the first order selected at step and one or more other orders. Orders in addition to the first order may be selected based on the inventory items requested by the first order selected. For example orders may be grouped into order holder based on having the same and or similar inventory items as the first selected order. Orders selected for arrangement on order holder may for example be based on calculating a number of trips the mobile drive unit is calculated to take to the inventory pier and or other locations in inventory system . Management module may determine calculated savings by comparing the amount of trips that would otherwise be required to fulfill the orders if not grouped to the calculated number of the trips that would occur by selecting the two or more orders. Management module may select orders to group that reduce and or minimize the number of overall trips. Management module may also select orders to group that reduce and or minimize the number of overall task assignments generated by management module . For example management module may determine to reduce the number of tasks assigned to mobile drive units to fill orders.

Management module may select two or more orders from the available orders based on determining that the orders include only inventory items that are located in one or more of the inventory holders and or pallet holders that are stationed inventory pier as discussed above. For example management module may determine to arrange an inventory pier only order holder a mixed order holder and or a inventory station only order holder . For various reasons management module may determine to add orders to order holder that include inventory items that are located at other locations within inventory system such as inventory storage to build a mixed order holder . This determination may be made based on any of the factors discussed above. The determination may be based on the workload at inventory pier .

As noted above management module may also take into account the locations of inventory items on inventory pier when determining arrangements for orders on a given order holder . For example management module may determine to select orders that are requesting inventory items located in different inventory holders at inventory pier . Specifically management module may determine to group orders based on determining the first order is for one inventory item stored by an inventory holder positioned at one defined area of inventory pier and determining that the second order is for another inventory item stored by another inventory holder positioned at another defined area at inventory pier .

Once order holder is full and or has no additional space available at step the method ends. It should be noted that while method is illustrated as adding an order to order holder at a time management module may determine in advance all orders and or containers that will be added to a particular order holder .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to methods and illustrated in the flowcharts of . For example management module is capable of assigning many tasks at once and or in parallel. Thus management module may also process many orders in parallel and or in sequence. Moreover management module may be capable of using inventory piers to fulfill orders for any number and types of inventory facilities. Management module may be capable of fulfilling orders with multiple inventory piers according to the principles discussed above with respect to . Orders corresponding to various of those facilities may be processed by management module sequentially and or at the same time using various inventory stations and or inventory piers . Additionally the steps of may be performed in parallel or in any suitable order. Moreover the embodiments described with respect to the of the present disclosure are expected be fully combinable and suitable for use in appropriate embodiments described herein.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In certain embodiments memory may be memory included in any of the system components discussed above such as management module mobile drive unit and or inventory pier . Memory may store any appropriate information useful to the components of system such as a plurality of orders and or information associated with a plurality of orders received by management module . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. For example processor may obtain information associated with the plurality of orders stored in memory . To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. In certain embodiments storage may be included in any appropriate component of system including management module mobile drive unit and or inventory pier . Storage may store any appropriate information useful to the components of system such as a plurality of orders and or information associated with a plurality of orders received by management module . Storage may include removable or non removable i.e. fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While particular embodiments of inventory system are illustrated it should be appreciated that the teaching of the present disclosure may be applied to any type and number of inventory systems. For example inventory system may represent a merchandise return facility. In such embodiments inventory items may represent merchandise returned by customers. Such merchandise may be stored in inventory holders when received at the facility from individual customers. At appropriate times large numbers of units may be removed from a particular inventory holder and transferred at inventory pier to an order holder . For example certain inventory items may be associated with a product recall causing those inventory items to be returned in high volume. As another example system may represent a manufacturing facility and inventory items may represent individual components of a manufacturing kit. Thus individual items of the manufacturing kit may be stored in inventory holders . Orders for manufactured products may be assembled from the individual items at inventory pier . Final products may be transported by mobile drive units using order holders and may be shipped to the appropriate destination. Thus although a number of example embodiments are described in the present disclosure inventory system may in general represent any suitable facility or system for storing or processing inventory items and inventory items may represent objects of any type suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in a particular inventory system .

Management module in some embodiments may generate task assignments independently of such inventory requests as part of the overall management and maintenance of inventory system . For example management module may generate task assignments in response to the occurrence of a particular event e.g. in response to a mobile drive unit requesting a space to park according to a predetermined schedule e.g. as part of a daily start up routine or at any appropriate time based on the configuration and characteristics of inventory system . In addition while management module may be configured to manage various aspects of the operation of the components of inventory system in particular embodiments the components themselves may also be responsible for decision making relating to certain aspects of their operation thereby reducing the processing load on management module . In particular individual components may be configured to independently respond to certain localized circumstances in a manner that allows these components to improve their effectiveness without reducing the overall efficiency of inventory system . As one example management module may rely on the independent decision making of the mobile drive units to prevent collisions. Moreover while the description above focuses on one or more embodiments in which mobile drive unit requests paths from management module mobile drive unit may in alternative embodiments generate its own paths. Moreover while the above description describes moving order holders along one side of inventory piers the teachings of the present disclosure are also applicable to configurations where conveyance equipment is situated along one side of inventory pier . Containers may move along the conveyance equipment and stop at various locations to receive inventory items in a similar manner as described above with respect to order holders . Moreover in some embodiments mobile drive units may comprise conveyance equipment.

Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover while the present disclosure has been described with respect to various embodiments it is fully expected that the teachings of the present disclosure may be combined in a single embodiment as appropriate.

