---

title: System and method for optimizing order placement in an order queue in an electronic trading environment
abstract: Systems and methods for optimizing order placement in an electronic trading environment are provided. Global queue holder orders are placed in a tradeable object to reserve quantity for traders. Traders may submit order requests for quantity at price levels at which a global queue holder order is holding quantity. When a trader submits an order for a quantity at a price level at which quantity is being held, a gateway compares the order to the global queue holder order information stored in a database. If the trader's order coincides with a price level at which quantity is held, then the gateway virtually transfers ownership of that quantity to the trader, who then assumes the advantageous queue position. When the quantity associated with the order is filled, the fill information is sent to the gateway, which to the database to determine which trader is associated with the filled order quantity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08548899&OS=08548899&RS=08548899
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08548899
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120720
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 928 458 filed Oct. 30 2007 entitled System and Method for Optimizing Order Placement in an Order Queue in an Electronic Trading Environment now U.S. Pat. No. 8 249 976 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed to optimizing the placement of an order in an order queue in an electronic trading environment.

Electronic trading refers to a trading system that matches orders by an electronic trading platform. Current examples of electronic trading platforms include the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME Globex trading system the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT e cbot and Eurex just to name a few. A trading system that matches orders electronically is also referred to herein as an electronic exchange. Exchanges like the CME and CBOT currently offer trading via open outcry in addition to electronic trading.

With respect to electronic exchanges traders connect to an electronic trading platform by way of a communication link through their client devices. Once connected traders select which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or a price. It includes but is not limited to traded events goods and or financial products such as stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an electronic exchange or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

Sometimes on their machines traders use automated or semi automated trading tools collectively hereinafter referred to as automated tools that automatically or semi automatically send orders to the electronic exchange. Such trading tools are usually provided among other things to facilitate fast and accurate order entry. For instance an automated tool might quickly calculate one or more order parameters such as an order price or order quantity based on market conditions or some other reference condition and then automatically send an order with these parameters to an electronic exchange for matching.

According to many existing and popular electronic exchanges today orders are electronically entered in an exchange order book in the sequence in which they are entered into the market a first in first out commonly referred to as FIFO matching system . Based on this sequence and the availability of market quantity orders are filled with priority given to the first order entered then the second next order entered and so forth. Different variations of FIFO or different matching systems altogether can be used as well.

It is therefore beneficial to provide an automated or semi automated trading tool that offers an improved method for optimizing the placement of orders in an electronic trading environment.

The embodiments described herein provide a system and method for optimizing the placement of an order in an electronic trading environment. To illustrate the present invention and aspects thereof the following description including the figures and detailed description provides examples that can be used or readily modified by one of ordinary skill to generate a system or method that benefits from the teachings described and claimed herein.

In many instances spotting an opportunity in the market and capitalizing on the opportunity before the market moves or before a competing trader can separate the traders who are successful from the ones who are not. An important component in capitalizing on opportunities involves the trader quickly acting on that information to get the order to the electronic exchange for matching before other traders do to ensure the best placement in the order queue and increased likelihood of getting filled. However regardless of the type of matching algorithm used by the electronic exchange traders have no means to control order positions in an order queue at an electronic exchange except to enter orders as quickly and as accurately as possible.

According to the example embodiments one or more global queue holder orders may be submitted in a tradeable object to hold one or more positions in an order queue. Global queue holder orders may be configured to be placed around a reference price level at multiple price levels with constant or varying quantities and at varying times during the trading day.

When using conventional automated trading tools traders may only receive as advantageous of a queue position as they are quick to place an order. According to the present embodiments traders may receive a better queue position when they place orders at prices levels in which global queue holder orders are already holding quantity to be transferred to their ownership. This method allows a trading administrator to reserve quantity for any trader within a trading firm or brokerage house to gain an important advantage over other traders competing in the market. Additionally the trading administrator or the automated trading tool can scale the amount of quantity being held at a price level based on the number of interested traders market activity trading volume etc.

Additionally traders may submit order requests for quantity at price levels at which global queue holder orders are holding quantity. Traders can be made aware of these price levels by indicating them on the trading screen. Indication of where global queue holder orders have been placed is configurable but may for example include a shaded cell bolded cell additional column etc. Regardless of whether or not the trader is aware of what price levels quantity is being held the gateway will track orders placed by the traders as well as global queue holder orders. When a trader submits an order for a quantity at a price level at which quantity is being held the gateway will compare that order information to the global queue holder order information being stored in a database. If the trader s order coincides with a price level at which quantity is held then the gateway will virtually transfer ownership of that quantity to the trader. If when that order quantity is matched at the electronic exchange the fill information will be sent back to the gateway at which time the gateway then looks to the database to see which trader actually took possession of the order quantity. The associated fill information will be forwarded to that trader.

Other examples are provided herein. Modifications may also be made to the system and methods without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Additional features and advantages of the embodiments will be set forth in the description that follows. The features and advantages of the example embodiment may be realized and obtained through the embodiments particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features will become more fully apparent from the following description figures and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the example embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

The present invention is related to optimizing the position of an order in an order queue in an electronic trading environment. To illustrate aspects of the present invention a system and method are illustrated in example form using the drawings referred to herein. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that such examples may be quickly and readily adaptable using the teachings described herein. Aspects of the present invention are protected by the accompanying claims. Limitations from the patent specification should not be improperly incorporated into the claims unless explicitly stated or otherwise inherently known.

Regardless of the types of order execution algorithms used the electronic exchange provides market information to the subscribing client device . Market information may include data that represents just the inside market. The inside market is the lowest sell price best ask and the highest buy price best bid at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually although not necessarily provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words an electronic exchange usually provides the total buy quantity and the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the electronic exchange. For instance some electronic exchanges provide market depth for all or most price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally the electronic exchange can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information.

The computer employed as the client device generally can range from a hand held device laptop or personal computer to a larger computer such as a workstation with multiple multiprocessors. Generally the client device includes a monitor or any other output device and an input device such as a keyboard a trackball and or a two or three button mouse to support click based trading if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer employed for the client device and will be able to select an appropriate system.

The computer employed as the gateway generally can range from a personal computer to a larger or faster computer. Generally the gateway may additionally include a monitor or any other output device input device and access to a database if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will also understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer s employed for the gateway and will be able to select an appropriate system.

It should be noted that a computer system that may be employed here as a client device or a gateway generally includes a central processing unit a memory a primary and or secondary memory unit an input interface for receiving data from a communications network an input interface for receiving input signals from one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse etc. and an output interface for communications with an output device for example a monitor . A system bus or an equivalent system may provide communications between these various elements.

In general it should be understood that the devices described herein could include hardware objects developed using integrated circuit development technologies or yet via some other methods or the combination of hardware and software objects that could be ordered parameterized and connected in a software environment to implement different functions described herein. Also the hardware objects could communicate using electrical signals with states of the signals representing different data.

It should also be noted that the client device generally executes application programs resident at the client device under the control of the operating system of the client device . Also the gateway executes application programs resident at the gateway under the control of the operating system of the gateway . In other embodiments and as understood by a person skilled in the art the function of the application programs at the client device may be performed by the gateway and likewise the function of the application programs at the gateway may be performed by the client device .

The actual electronic trading system configurations are numerous and a person skilled in the art of electronic trading systems would be able to construct a suitable network configuration. For the purposes of illustration some example configurations are provided to illustrate where the elements may be physically located and how they might be connected to form an electronic trading system. These illustrations are meant to be helpful to the reader and they are not meant to be limiting. According to one example illustration the gateway device may be located at the client site along with the trading station which is usually remote from the matching process at the electronic exchange. According to this instance the trading station the gateway and the router may communicate over a local area network and the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange over a T T ISDN or some other high speed connection.

In another example illustration the client site may be located on the actual grounds of the electronic exchange for example in the building of the exchange . According to this instance the trading station the gateway and the router may still communicate over a local area network but the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange through another connection means besides a T T or ISDN. In yet another example illustration the gateway may be housed at or near its corresponding electronic exchange. According to this instance the client device may communicate with the gateway over a wide area network or through the use of a T T ISDN or some other high speed connection.

Further the gateway may be located remote from the client device and remote from the electronic exchange which might be particularly useful in systems that include interconnection of multiple trading networks. Thus one trading network might have gateway access to an electronic exchange. Then other trading networks may communicate with the trading network that has gateway access through a T T ISDN or some other high speed connection.

The trading system presented in provides the trader with the opportunity to trade tradeable objects listed at different electronic exchanges. To some traders there can be many advantages with a multi exchange environment. For example a trader could view market information from each tradeable object through one common visual display. As such price and quantity information from the two separate electronic exchanges may be presented together so that the trader can view both markets simultaneously in the same window. In another example a trader can spread trade different tradeable objects listed at the different electronic exchanges.

As indicated earlier one skilled in the art of electronic trading systems will understand that the present embodiments are not limited to the particular configurations illustrated and described with respect to and and will be able to design a particular system based on the specific requirements for example by adding additional exchanges gateways client devices routers or other computers serving various functions like message handling and security . Additionally several networks like either of the networks shown in or may be linked together to communicatively access one or more electronic exchanges.

Client devices and can be computers such as a workstation desktop laptop handheld device and so forth that allow a trader to trade one or more tradeable objects that are offered at exchange s . A client device may include at least processor and memory. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process various types of market information. The more market information is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the present invention.

Memory may include a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor unit for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage devices. Volatile media include for example dynamic memory such as main memory or random access memory RAM . Common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disks flexible disks hard disks magnetic tape punch cards CD ROM a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

When a client device receives market information or other data such as news or charting data and order related information from an electronic exchange the received information may be displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device. However it should be understood that the information could be provided to a trader using other means such as sound. The output device can be any display device. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other type of display.

Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an electronic exchange cancel orders change orders query an electronic exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into a client device such as by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input device. For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. Then a client device preferably generates transaction information. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated transaction information is sent from a client device to one or more host exchanges over communication links.

In one example embodiment a client device uses software to create specialized interactive trading screens on terminals associated with them. Trading screens preferably enable traders to among other things enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screen may vary according to the specific software application being run. In addition to or in place of the interactive trading screens a client device could run automated types of trading applications.

Preferably trading application has access to market information from one or more electronic exchanges through API or application programming interface and trading application can also forward transaction information to electronic exchange via API . Alternatively API could be distributed so that a portion of the API rests on the trading station and a gateway or at the electronic exchange . Additionally trading application may receive signals from input device via input device interface and can be given the ability to send signals to display device via display device interface .

Alternatively the example embodiments described herein may be a separate program from trading application but still stored in memory and executed on the trading station . In another alternative embodiment the preferred embodiments may be a program stored in memory and executed on a device other than trading station . Example devices may include a gateway or some other well known intermediary device.

At step order placement parameters are defined to be associated with one or more global queue holder orders. Specifically a reference price level is defined and used to place the global queue holder orders. Commonly the global queue holder orders are limit orders centered around one or two price levels outside of the inside market. It should be understood however that any price level could be used as a reference price level. For example the global queue holder orders could be centered around the last traded price or the inside market. As such one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that other price levels could also be used as a reference price level and that other order types besides limit orders may be used.

Global queue holder orders placed at or near the inside market carry increased risk of getting filled before ownership is actually transferred to an actual trader. Global queue holder orders placed outside of the inside market can also get filled before ownership is actually transferred. According to the example embodiments when a global queue holder order is filled before ownership is transferred the gateway may immediately submit an offsetting order such as a market order to flatten the position. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that there are other alternatives to submitting offsetting orders when non trader owned global queue holder orders are filled before ownership is transferred.

Additionally the number of price levels at which to place global queue holder orders around the reference price level is defined as an order placement parameter. Depending on the amount of traders participating in the global queue holder market how much overall volume is currently being traded or how quickly the market is moving any number of orders may be placed on each side of the reference price level. It should be understood that a defined quantity of for example 2 global queue holder orders typically correlates to 2 global queue holder orders being placed on each side of the reference price level for a total of 4 global queue holder orders in that specific tradeable object. Alternatively the automated trading tool can be configured to only place global queue holder orders on one side of the reference price level instead of both sides of the reference price level or possibly some other asymmetrical configuration. This may be useful when the market is moving more quickly in one direction than the other.

In another embodiment whether or not multiple global queue holder orders are placed at the same price level can be defined. For example instead of placing just 1 global queue holder order at a specific price level multiple global queue holder orders may be placed at the same price level. It should be understood that each of the multiple global queue holder orders could be for the same quantity or possibly different quantities. For example if the participating traders generally trade different quantities then the global queue holder quantities could mimic the quantities typically placed by those traders. This method allows multiple traders to each place orders at the same price level in the tradeable object of varying quantities while gaining advantageous queue positions over the general trading community.

In yet another embodiment the quantity associated with each of the global queue holder orders is defined. Based on how quickly the market is moving the amount of volume being traded etc. each global queue holder order quantity can be configured to be constant variable dynamic or a combination of the three. Specifically when the quantity is defined to be constant each global queue holder order would be associated with the same quantity for example 15 .

Alternatively when the quantity is defined to be variable the automated trading tool may scale the quantity of the global queue holder order based on the proximity to the reference price level activity in the market etc. For example if there are 3 global queue holder orders placed on each side of the reference price level it may be defined that the global queue holder order closest to the reference price level hold a quantity of 10 the middle global queue holder order hold a quantity of 7 and the furthest order hold a quantity of 5 . It should be understood that any quantity could be defined.

Alternatively the automated trading tool may analyze the market of the specific tradeable object and determine how much quantity the traders are currently trading. Based on the determination the automated trading tool dynamically enters global queue holder orders with quantity similar to what is currently being traded at the trading firm in the tradeable object. If market activity increases or decreases the automated trading tool may also place or remove global queue holder orders to mimic the activity of traders at the trading group or the activity of the market itself.

Additionally the automated trading tool could use historical trading information to determine the global queue holder order quantities throughout the trading day. Based on one or more previous day s trading activity average order quantities trading patterns etc. the automated trading tool may increase or decrease the global queue holder quantity. A combination of the different quantities constant variable and dynamic allow the system to be flexible by initially place orders with constant or variable quantities and then change to dynamic quantities.

In another embodiment the time at which the automated trading tool places and replaces global queue holder orders in a specific tradeable object is defined. For example it can be defined that global queue holder orders are sent at the start of the trading day. As traders enter order requests and the gateway associates ownership of a specific queue holder order with a specific trader another queue holder order for the same initial quantity or quantity equal to that requested by a trader may be placed at the same price level. Alternatively the automated trading tool may monitor the market in the tradeable object and based on the volatility or trading volumes place or remove global queue holder orders from the market.

At step based on the configured order placement parameters the automated trading tool submits global queue holder orders in the specified tradeable object s . As previously described global queue holder orders may be placed in the market at the start of the trading day and as needed throughout the trading day to ensure that advantageous queue positions being held for participating traders. The global queue holder orders will be placed at the defined prices levels for the defined amount of quantity which as previously stated may be constant or variable. It should also be understood that the global queue holder orders are initially associated with a default trader and are not owned by a specific trader. The global queue holder orders are considered a place holder with a better position in the order queue for actual orders received from actual traders desiring to buy or sell quantity of the tradeable object in the future.

At step subsequent to the placement of the global queue holder orders a trader who is part of a group of traders that has access to the group of global queue holder orders submits an order request for a desired price and quantity of the tradeable object. At this point the trader might be aware of the global queue holder orders e.g. by indication or might not know of them e.g. no indication . A trader may elect to participate in using global queue holder orders to obtain more advantageous positions in the order queue. If a trader elects not to participate in using global queue holder orders their order requests would be submitted to the exchange and entered in the order queue without being associated with a global queue holder order.

At step the gateway or intermediary device receives the actual order request submitted by the trader for a desired price level and quantity.

At step the gateway analyzes the order request to determine whether or not the order request is associated with a price level at which quantity is currently being held by a global queue holder order.

At step the gateway determines that the trader s order request is associated with a price level at which quantity is being held by a global queue holder order. The gateway transfers ownership or control of the global queue holder order to the trader placing the order request. Further if the trader has elected to participate using global queue holder orders once the order information is updated in the database and ownership is transferred the actual order request placed by the trader is dropped by the gateway. The order request is dropped because passing it onto the electronic exchange would enter an additional order at the end of the order queue and the trader would then be responsible for 2 separate orders instead of just 1 . As previously mentioned if a trader has elected not to participate then their order would not be dropped by the gateway but instead would be passed onto the electronic exchange and entered at the end of the order queue.

Transferring ownership of the order is accomplished in a virtual manner such that the gateway associates the held quantity with the trader submitting the order request. The information associated with the order request such as time entered price quantity trader name tradeable object etc. may be stored in a storage mechanism referred to hereinafter as a database at the gateway. When the aforementioned held quantity is filled the electronic exchange will send the fill information to the gateway and the gateway will look up the order information in the database. Once the pertinent order information is found in the database the gateway will send the fill data associated with the order to the actual trader that submitted the corresponding order request.

In the situation where the trader enters an order for a quantity greater than that being held by a global queue holder order the portion of the quantity that is not covered by the global queue holder order will be placed at the end of the order queue. For example if a quantity of 10 was being held by a global queue holder order but the trader entered an order request for a quantity of 12 then an order for the remaining quantity of 2 would be placed at the exchange.

In the situation where the trader enters an order for a quantity less than that being held by a global queue holder order the unaccounted for portion of the global queue holder order will be available for another trader. For example if a quantity of 12 was being held by a global queue holder order and the trader entered an order request for a quantity of 10 then the remaining quantity of 2 can be made available for another trader to take ownership.

In an alternative embodiment if there were multiple global queue holder orders then the remaining quantity could be associated with a different queue holder order. For example if there were two global queue holder orders in the queue each for a quantity of 5 and a trader entered an order for a quantity of 10 then the trading system can transfer ownership of the first two global queue holder orders to the trader.

In yet another alternative embodiment the trading system could analyze the order request placed by the trader and dynamically alter the requested quantity depending on the quantity being held by global queue holder orders at that time. For example if there is currently a quantity of 7 being held by a global queue holder order and a trader requested a quantity of 5 upon approval by the trader the automated trading tool or gateway may alter the trader s requested quantity of 5 to a quantity of 7 to mimic the quantity being held by a global queue holder order. Similarly if the quantity associated with the global queue holder order was less than the quantity requested by the trader the automated trading tool could dynamically decrease the trader s requested quantity. Both dynamically increasing and decreasing of the trader s requested order quantity to use a global queue holder order would increase chances of traders obtaining the best position in queue.

In another embodiment if a trader has gained ownership of a global queue holder order and desires to cancel the order the gateway simply transfers ownership of the global queue holder order back to the default trader . Once ownership is transferred that specific global queue holder order may be associated with the default trader and can at any time be transferred to another trader. It is also possible that when a trader returns cancels the order that the global queue holder order is no longer in the range of prices defined by the order placement parameters. In this instance the order would then be deleted from the exchange and would not be available for another participating trader to obtain.

In the instance that two traders enter order requests for the same price level the trader that enters the order request first will gain ownership of the best queue position quantity held by a global queue holder order. Just as is the case with current electronic trading systems speed is of the utmost importance and in this instance whichever trader acts or reacts the quickest will gain the most advantageous queue position for that price level.

At step the gateway determines that the received order request does not pertain to quantity currently being held in the order queue by a global queue holder order. The gateway passes the order request onto the electronic exchange to be entered at the end of the order queue for that price level.

As previously explained the order placement parameters are defined prior to global queue holder orders being submitted to the electronic exchange. Let us assume that the reference price level has been defined as 2 price levels outside the inside market or price levels and as shown in . Additionally it was defined to place 1 global queue holder order with a quantity of 10 at each of the 3 price levels starting 2 price levels from the inside market or reference price level.

The gateway recognizes the global queue holder orders and the market information associated with the submitted orders is stored in the database at the gateway or accessible by the gateway prior to being passed to the electronic exchange. The global queue holder sell orders correspond to price levels and . Similarly the global queue holder buy orders correspond to price levels and . 

As shown in the trader at client device submits an order request to sell a quantity of 10 at a price level of . This order request is sent from client device to gateway shown in . Gateway recognizes that an order request has been received and determines that the order request is associated with a price level at which quantity is being held by a global queue holder order. Gateway stores the order information sent from the trader at client device in a database which tracks orders that have been placed by traders and global queue holder orders. The electronic exchange continues to recognize the global queue holder orders as being owned by a default trader however the gateway associates the actual ownership of the order quantity with the trader that submitted the order request. Once gateway has updated the database with the order ownership information the order request sent by the trader at client device is dropped. The trader s order request is displayed as working order in the working order column . When working order fills the electronic exchange will pass the fill information onto gateway . Gateway will look up the corresponding order information in the database to determine which trader is the actual owner of the quantity that was filled. The fill information is then passed on to the trader at client device .

According to the example embodiments a new global queue holder order will be submitted to electronic exchange at a price level of to replace the quantity transferred to the trader at client device . It is possible that not only one trader is interested in submitting an order to sell quantity at and is therefore important to hold additional quantity at the price level. As shown in the available quantity at price level is 20 10 of which is trader owned and 10 of which is non trader owned.

Referring again to the trader at client device submits an order request to buy a quantity of 3 at a price level of working order . This order request is sent from client device to gateway shown in . Gateway recognizes that an order request has been received and determines that the order request is associated with a price level at which quantity is being held by a global queue holder order. The gateway stores the information associated with working order as well as the ownership information in a database to be used for further tracking once the actual order is filled deleted changed etc. Gateway virtually transfers ownership from default trader to the trader at client device and then deletes the order request sent by the trader at client device .

In this instance there is remaining global queue holder quantity at the price level for other traders to obtain as the trader at client device only requested 3 of the 10 quantity being held at that price level. As with the order submitted by the trader at client device an additional queue holder order may be submitted to the electronic exchange to replenish the quantity that is now trader owned. Specifically the automated trading tool may submit a global queue holder order for a quantity of 3 thus making the available global queue holder quantity at price level . However it should be understood that an additional queue holder order may not be sent.

Additionally the trader at client device submits an order request to buy quantity of 5 at a price level of working order . Gateway recognizes that an order request has been received and determines that the order request is not associated with a price level at which quantity is being held by a global queue holder order. The global queue holder orders were placed at price levels and not at price level of . In this instance gateway does not store the information associated with working order or any ownership information in a database. Instead gateway passes the order request onto the electronic exchange to enter in the order queue at price level . 

It should be understood that while each trader at a participating trading group may be aware that global queue holder orders have been placed each individual trader can only see and manage their own working orders not the working orders of other traders. Thus the trader at client device will not see the orders entered by the trader at client device or and vice versa.

Using the previous embodiments there may be more than one trader from the group of traders waiting for fill quantity at a specific price level. In an alternative embodiment the fill quantity can be distributed to each of the traders participating in global queue holders at the specific price level. For example there could be 1 global queue holder order at a price level and the fill quantity may be distributed or shared amongst the multiple traders in the order queue at that price level. Specifically if multiple traders from the group of traders are holding quantity at a specific price level that quantity may be shared between all the traders instead of just the trader with the best queue position.

In one embodiment of distributing fill quantity the quantity may be distributed by time priority. In this embodiment all orders are filled based on the first in first out FIFO matching algorithm. Quantity is not shared but is matched on a first come first come basis.

In an additional embodiment of distributing fill quantity the quantity may be distributed equally amongst the traders in the queue. For example let s assume there is a quantity of 100 held at a price level with 10 traders in the queue for that held quantity. If a quantity of 10 fills then each of the 10 traders will get 1 of their desired quantity filled.

In another additional embodiment of distributing fill quantity the quantity may be distributed by a weighted distribution. In this embodiment let s assume that there is a quantity of 100 held at a price level where the 100 quantity is made up of one 50 lot and five 10 lots. If a quantity of 50 fills then 25 would go to the 50 lot trader and a quantity of 5 would go to each of the 10 lot traders.

In yet another embodiment of distributing fill quantity the quantity may be distributed by trader priority where each trader is given a priority ranking. When the quantity is distributed by trader priority regardless of time priority or position in the Order queue the trader with the highest priority ranking will receive fills before the other traders in the order queue at that price level.

As previously described an advantage of global queue holder orders is that orders are entered into the market before they are actually needed giving them the most advantageous position available in the order queue as possible. Quantity is held so that traders may assume ownership and gain a better queue position and an edge over other traders. When the market shifts and global queue holder orders need to be shifted it is in the best interest of the traders that as few global queue holder orders as possible are moved such that order queue position may be maintained.

At step the automated trading tool submits one or more global queue holder orders to the electronic exchange. The global queue holder orders are placed at the configured price levels and are associated with the configured quantity.

At step the gateway determines that the market in the specified tradeable object has not fluctuated. The gateway does not modify the price levels associated with the global queue holder orders.

At step the gateway determines that the market in the specified tradeable object has not only fluctuated but whether or not the market fluctuated up or down. It is possible that when the market fluctuates one or more of the global queue holder orders will no longer coincide with the defined order placement parameters.

At step the gateway determines that the market in the specified tradeable object has fluctuated up one or more price levels. In this instance the global queue holder orders on the buy and sell side may not coincide with the defined order placement parameters. When the market fluctuates up the global queue holder orders must be rolled up to coincide with the correct price levels around the reference price level. Rolling the orders up means that the fewest number of orders are moved at a time in an attempt to maintain the most advantageous queue position as possible. Shifting all 6 orders would negate their advantageous queue position as all would be removed from the queue and then placed at the end of another. In this example the buy side order that is furthest from the reference point level would be rolled up to the price level closest to the reference price level. Similarly the sell side order that is closest to the reference point level would be rolled up to the price level furthest from the reference price level. An example is provided with respect to .

At step the gateway determines that the market in the specified tradeable object has fluctuated down one or more price levels. In this instance the global queue holder orders on the buy and sell side may not coincide with the defined order placement parameters. When the market fluctuates down the global queue holder orders must be rolled down to coincide with the correct price levels around the reference price level. Rolling the orders down means that the fewest number of orders are moved at a time in an attempt to maintain the most advantageous queue position as possible. Shifting all 6 orders would negate their advantageous queue position as all would be removed from the queue and then placed at the end of another. In this example the buy side order that is closest to the reference point level would be rolled down to the lowest price level coinciding with the order placement parameters. Similarly the sell side order that is farthest from the reference point level would be rolled down to the price level closest to the reference price level.

As shown in the market data associated to tradeable object Market A has fluctuated down such that the best bid has moved from to a price level of and the best ask from to . As the market fluctuates the automated trading tool must move the global queue holder orders to continually correspond to price levels defined in the order placement parameters. The order placement parameters as discussed with reference to defined that global queue holder orders should be centered around 2 price level outside the inside market. Therefore when the market fluctuates the global queue holder orders are no longer associated with the correct price levels.

Referring to instead of moving all 3 queue holder sell orders shown in the automated trading tool moves the order farthest from the reference price level down to the price level that is closest to the reference price level. Once the global queue holder sell order is moved the orders are once again associated with the correct price levels surrounding the reference price level and respectively. Had the global queue holder order that was at a price level of not been moved to then the orders would have been 3 price levels away from the reference price level.

Similarly referring to instead of moving all 3 queue holder buy orders shown in the automated trading tool moves the order closest to the reference price level down to the price level furthest from the reference price level. Once the global queue holder buy order is moved the orders are associated with the correct price levels surrounding the reference price level and respectively. Had the global queue holder order that was at a price level of not been moved to then the orders would have been 1 price level away from the reference price level.

As shown in the market data associated to tradeable object Market A has fluctuated up such that the best bid has moved from to a price level of and the best ask from to as shown in . As the market fluctuates the automated trading tool must move the global queue holder orders to continually correspond to price levels defined in the order placement parameters. The order placement parameters as discussed with reference to defined that global queue holder orders should be centered around 2 price level outside the inside market. Therefore when the market fluctuates the global queue holder orders are no longer associated with the correct price levels.

Referring to instead of moving all 3 queue holder sell orders shown in the automated trading tool moves the order closest to the reference price level up to the price level that is furthest from the reference price level. Once the global queue holder sell order is moved the orders are once again associated with the correct price levels surrounding the reference price level and respectively. Had the global queue holder order that was at a price level of not been moved to then the orders would have been 1 price level away from the reference price level.

Similarly referring to instead of moving all 3 queue holder buy orders shown in the automated trading tool moves the order farthest from the reference price level up to the price level closest to the reference price level. Once the global queue holder buy order is moved the orders are associated with the correct price levels surrounding the reference price level and respectively. Had the global queue holder order that was at a price level of not been moved to then the orders would have been 3 price levels away from the reference price level.

The example embodiments discussed above describe a method for optimizing order placement in an order queue in an electronic trading environment. Specifically the embodiments optimize order placement by among other things placing one or more global queue holder orders in a tradeable object to hold one or more positions in an order queue. Global queue holder orders may be configured to be placed around a reference price level at multiple price levels with constant or varying quantities and at varying times during the trading day.

When using conventional automated trading tools traders may only receive as advantageous of a queue position as they are quick to place an order. According to the present embodiments traders may receive a better queue position when they place orders at prices levels in which global queue holder orders are already holding quantity to be transferred to their ownership. This method allows a trading administrator to reserve quantity for any trader within a trading firm or brokerage house to gain an important advantage over other traders participating in the market. Additionally the trading administrator or the automated trading tool can scale the amount of quantity being held based on the number of interested traders market activity trading volume etc.

Traders may submit order request for quantity at price levels at which global queue holder orders are holding quantity. Traders may be aware of these prices levels as they may be indicated on the trading screen. Indication of where global queue holder orders have been places is configurable but may consist of a shaded cell bolded cell etc. Regardless of whether or not the trader is aware of where quantity is being held the gateway will track orders placed by the traders as well as global queue holder orders. When a trader submits an order for a quantity at a price level at which quantity is being held the gateway will compare that order information to the global queue holder order information being stored in a database. If the trader s order coincides with a price level at which quantity is held then the gateway will virtually transfer ownership of that quantity to the trader. If when that order quantity matched at the electronic exchange the fill information will be sent back to the gateway at which time the gateway will then look to the database to see which trader actually owned the order quantity. The associated fill information will be forwarded to that trader.

The above description of the example embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for reducing the risks involved in trading multiple spread trading strategies may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

