---

title: Points of interest recommendations
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to, among other things, providing point of interest item recommendations and/or point of interest map information to users. In some examples, point of interest tags associated by a first user with point of interest items may be managed. Additionally, point of interest item ratings may be received from at least one of a plurality of other users. Based at least in part on the received ratings, a recommendation of a first point of interest item of the one or more point of interest items may be prepared for the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282161&OS=09282161&RS=09282161
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09282161
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
This application is related to application Ser. No. 13 662 309 filed on the same day herewith entitled POINTS OF INTEREST MAPPING the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein at least under 35 U.S.C. 120.

As more and more content becomes available over the Internet exceedingly large numbers of users go to the web for all types of resources. For example users may access the Internet for sources of entertainment consumption of news items or other information as well as for retrieving information associated with tourism and or travel. Additionally large numbers of users may rely on the review of web content for making decisions about items to purchase places to visit and or activities in which to participate. As such users have become accustomed to rating and or reviewing items to help others make such decisions. However such concepts may provide challenges for at least service providers that manage such content.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things managing point of interest information including but not limited to point of interest items point of interest locations point of interest tags etc. as well as providing point of interest recommendations and or point of interest mapping. For example point of interest items may include but are not limited to natural landmarks man made structures and or any physical location that may be of interest of someone. As such point of interest information may be any information that can be utilized to describe such items e.g. location category rating review etc. . Point of interest categories may include without limitation cool architecture rooftop gardens weird outdoor art chocolate old train stations revolutionary war or any category imaginable. Some items may fit into many different categories and some categories may include many different items. In some examples point of interest items as well as associated point of interest information may be managed in such a way that point of interest recommendations as well as point of interest map information may be generated and or provided to users.

In some examples a setup stage may include providing categories for a user to rank. These rankings may then be utilized to generate a user profile that indicates user preferences or otherwise enables more targeted recommendations and or mapping. Once provided recommendations may be filtered or sorted based on factors such as location distance from the user rating etc. Additionally the user profile may be further augmented or otherwise updated based at least in part on actions taken by the user. For example when a user rates or ranks additional point of interest items point of interest categories and or associations between items and categories e.g. rating the accuracy of an item category pair the system may update the user s profile based at least in part on such ratings. Additionally ifa user visits a point of interest this may indicate their actual preferences rather than their intended preferences and their profile may be updated accordingly. Time spent at a point of interest item may also be a factor as well as other information that may be useful in determining a user s preferences automatically.

Additionally other users and the initial user discussed may be provided with an interface for rating point of interest items over time. For example once a user has setup their preferences they may be able to add new point of interest items to a catalogue of point of interest items. Additionally users may be able to assign categories also described herein as tags to individual point of interest items and or create new tags. Once a tag is created other users and the user that created the tag may be able to rate the tag add new point of interest items to the tag rate the items associated with the tags and or rate the association between the tag and the item e.g. a user may rate how much they like an item how much they like a category and or how well they think an item fits in a category . Normalization may be utilized to avoid having too many different tags that are similar. For example a user may be provided with similar options when they are creating a new tag e.g. with predicative typing and or collaborative filtering or user generated tags may be normalized on the back end such that all similar tags are grouped together and treated the same .

In some cases based at least in part on a user profile other user profiles and or the community provided ratings i.e. tag ratings item ratings and or association ratings point of interest recommendations and or mapping information may be generated and or provided to users. In some examples a user may be automatically provided with point of interest recommendations or a user may request a point of interest recommendation. In either case the recommendation may be based at least in part on their profile i.e. their perceived or actual preferences and the community rankings. For example if a user has rated rooftop gardens as their favorite tag and a rooftop garden on Fifth Avenue and Pike Street is rated by the community as the best this rooftop garden may be recommended to the user. Additionally other scenarios exist where certain ratings from users of the community may be weighted higher based at least in part on factors such as similarity between the users e.g. based at least in part on preferences relationships between the users e.g. based at least in part on social network information familiarity of a particular location e.g. the rater of an item from that city may be weighted higher than a rater who is not from that city and or actual visits e.g. a rating from a user that has visited an item may be weighted higher than a rating from a user that has never visited the item . In some cases verification that a user has visited an item may be made by geolocation information received from a mobile device and or a photograph taken of the item e.g. the picture may include geolocation metadata that may indicate that the picture was taken from a location associated with the item as opposed to copied from the Internet or the like .

Recommendations may be provided in a list or other representation via a graphical user interface GUI . The list may rank or at least place the recommendations in an order that may be filtered sorted or otherwise reordered to the users liking. Pictures tags and or other related data may be provided to the user with the recommendation as well as links to web sites location information reviews and or other resources for providing information about the recommendations. In some examples a score may be provided that indicates the strength of the recommendation with relation to the user s profile information. Additionally information about other users that may have recommended the item reviewed the item and or visited the item may be provided if permission is given by those users or they were given the opportunity to opt out of having their information shared . However in some examples this information may be provided in an anonymous fashion such as utilizing user names aliases or the like.

In some examples maps and or map information i.e. map data points that can be provided to or otherwise utilized by a mapping application may be provided that indicate point of interest recommendations and their physical relation to the user. The maps may include addresses of the point of interest items routes to and from the point of interest items as well as detours to one s current trip that may include visiting one or more point of interest items. For example the features described herein may be integrated within a mobile global positioning service GPS application utilized for navigation. As such a user may have requested directions from a current location to an address and a recommendation of a point of interest item may be provided that is on the route and or matches a user preference. Additionally the user may configure the application to recommend point of interest items on or near a route based at least in part on one or more of several factors. For example factors may include an amount of detour time a detour distance a rating level a number of reviews a preference match score one or more particular categories or the like. Average or other amounts of time that users generally visit point of interest items may also be factored into the determination of whether to recommend the detour and or whether the user has enough time to stop at the point of interest information. Additionally in some examples a route may be generated for visiting multiple point of interest items selected by and or recommended for a user or a group of users e.g. based at least in part on a group profile . In this way the mapping application may serve as a virtual tour guide for points of interest at or near a user s current location. GPS and or other geolocation data may be received from a user s device and utilized for generating and or providing the aforementioned point of interest recommendations and or mapping.

Additionally a distributed community of other users may also be in communication with the point of interest computers via the one or more networks . In some aspects the users of the distributed community may also access the point of interest computers via individual user devices such as but not limited to mobile devices or the like. Utilizing these user devices each user of the distributed community may individually provide point of interest item information to the point of interest computers at . For example as noted above these users may create or point of interest tags rate point of interest items and or associate point of interest items with point of interest tags. As desired they may also rate each association rate point of interest tags provide reviews and or photographs of items and or tags or the like.

As noted above each user or the users of the distributed community may also provide user preferences and or ratings at . For example as part of a setup stage or initializing phase the user may rate or rank one or more pre specified point of interest tags. These rankings may then be utilized by the point of interest computers to generate a user profile for the user . Further in some examples the point of interest computers may then determine one or more point of interest recommendations and or maps based at least in part on the user profile and or the community ratings. At these recommendations and or maps may be provided via the networks to the user devices .

In some examples the provided recommendations and or maps may include but are not limited to point of interest recommendations maps that include point of interest items and or routes to or that include point of interest items . For example provided point of interest recommendations may include 1 N recommendations in a list or other organizational structure e.g. a tree a row a column or other non ranked or non ordered grouping . As shown the recommendations may include a list of tags and or a list of items that were determined as recommendations for the user . For example 2 in the list may indicate that the tag weird outdoor art was ranked second for this user based at least in part on their profile. By selecting 2 or hovering over the icon an image or other information associated with the Fremont Troll may be displayed to the user . In some cases the Fremont Troll may be the highest rated most reviewed or closest point of interest item in the weird outdoor art category or associated with the weird outdoor art tag. However in other examples the list may include a list of items instead of tags that were determined as recommendations for the user. In this case the second item may be the second highest rated item regardless of category or tag determined as a recommendation for the user .

Further in other examples a map may be provided that displays point of interest item recommendations that are near the user or are at a search location requested by the user . For example the user may set a proximity location and or geofence for determining recommendations and or maps. As such a user who does not live in Seattle but is planning a trip there may choose Seattle as the location and the map may indicate recommended point of interest items in Seattle. Additionally in some examples a route or set of directions may be provided to the user . The route may include directions to a point of interest item selected by the user a point of interest item recommended to the user or directions to an address of other location selected by the user. As such the route may include options for making deviations to the route in order to visit recommended and or selected point of interest items. An interface that displays the route may also be configured to periodically or when appropriate provide point of interest item recommendations to the user while in route the destination selected by the user . For example a prompt or pop up window may indicate to the user that if the user were to exit shortly he or she would be a certain distance away from a top rated point of interest item based at least in part on the profile of the user and or the community ratings or a point of interest item associated with a top rated tag based at least in part on the profile of the user and or the community ratings .

Additionally in some examples at the point of interest computers may receive point of interest information from one or more users of a community of users. The community of users may be a group or subset of users of the point of interest computers and or point of interest services provided by the point of interest computers or other service provider. Additionally the first user i.e. the one that entered preferences at may be part of the community. This point of interest information that is received from the community may include new point of interest tags new point of interest items pictures of point of interest items indications of visits to point of interest items ratings of point of interest tags ratings of point of interest items and or ratings of point of interest item tag associations. Additionally the received point of interest information may be collected or otherwise combined to make up a data set of community data . For example and as shown in the community data may include point of interest tags and for each tag one or more associated point of interest items. Additionally the community data may include ratings such as that shown in that correspond to a rating of a point of interest item a point of interest tag and or a point of interest association.

At the point of interest computers may determine point of interest recommendations and or maps. In some examples the determination may be based at least in part on a user profile of the first user e.g. generated based at least in part on the received user preferences and the point of interest information received from the community. As noted different factors may effect or influence the determination e.g. how similar the first user s profile is to other community members profiles whether and if so how a user s profile has changed over time e.g. based at least in part on ratings provided by that user and or actual visits to point of interest items and or how a user rates point of interest items once visited. Further in some examples the point of interest computers may provide the determined recommendation and or map e.g. the map to the user device for display to a user at . In some cases the user may be the same user that provided the user preferences at . However in other cases the recommendations and or map s may be provided to a different user. Additionally the same user or different users may provide the user preferences at and or receive the recommendations and or map s at different user devices.

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with the point of interest management computers via the one or more user devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. .

As described briefly above the application may allow the users to interact with a service provider computer such as to access web content e.g. web pages music video etc. and or point of interest information e.g. landmarks structures natural features etc. and or ratings or categories of the same . The one or more point of interest management computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the application and or cloud based software services. Other server architectures may also be used to host the application and or cloud based software services. The application may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user devices such as but not limited to a point of interest UI a mapping UI or the like. The application can provide any type of website that supports user interaction including social networking sites online retailers informational sites blog sites search engine sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the application such as with other applications running on the user devices .

As noted above the architecture may include one or more user devices . The user devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. In some examples the user devices may be in communication with the point of interest management computers via the networks or via other network connections.

In one illustrative configuration the user devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The user devices may also include geo location devices e.g. a global positioning system GPS device or the like for providing and or recording geographic location information associated with the user devices .

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the point of interest mapping UI such as via the web browsers or dedicated applications e.g. smart phone applications tablet applications etc. . The point of interest mapping UI may be configured to receive store and or display a website or other interface for interacting with the point of interest management computers . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. In addition the user information may include a user provided response to a security question or a geographic location obtained by the user device .

Additionally in some aspects the point of interest mapping UI may allow a user to interact with the point of interest management computers . As such the point of interest mapping UI may be utilized by the user to enter or otherwise provide point of interest preferences e.g. at setup or at any point in time when a user decides to update or change his or her profile point of interest ratings and or point of interest item category associations. Additionally the point of interest mapping UI may also allow a user to review or otherwise consume content from the point of interest management computers e.g. point of interest recommendations and or point of interest maps . Further in some examples the point of interest mapping UI may be configured to provide profile pages for users locations point of interest items and or point of interest tags i.e. categories . For example a profile page may exist that can display all or some data associated with that profile. In one non limiting example a user profile page may list the user s preferences point of interest items the user has rated point of interest items the user has visited how long the user visited each item visited etc. Point of interest item profile pages and the like may show similarly associated data as desired.

In some aspects the point of interest management computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to mobile desktop thin client and or cloud computing devices such as servers. In some examples the point of interest management computers may be in communication with the user devices and or other service providers via the networks or via other network connections. The point of interest management computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to perform the provisioning of point of interest recommendations and or point of interest mapping as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the point of interest management computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of point of interest management computers the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The point of interest management computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as SRAM DRAM or ROM.

The memory the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are all examples of computer storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the point of interest management computers may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the point of interest management computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The point of interest management computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the point of interest management computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The point of interest management computers may also include I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system one or more data stores and or one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a point of interest module a tag rating module a recommendation module and or a mapping module . In some examples the point of interest module may be configured to manage point of interest information including but not limited to a list or collection of all possible point of interest items e.g. each landmark that may be visited . When a user enters a new point of interest item into the system the point of interest module may be configured to store that item in the data store or other storage location. Additionally the point of interest module may be configured to manage actual i.e. physical locations associated with each point of interest item. For example the physical location may include an address a city a neighborhood longitude and latitude coordinates or the like. Further in some examples the point of interest module may be configured to generate manage or otherwise store in the data store or other local or remote storage device user profile information. For example user profile information may include initial or updated e.g. based at least in part on input from the user machine learning or actions taken by the user user preferences a profile score and or a profile category e.g. profile scores may be used to categorize profiles including but not limited to single tag factor categories and or complex multi factor categories .

In some examples the tag rating module may be configured to enable users to provide one or more tags e.g. to describe point of interest categories and or one or more ratings. As noted each tag may be associated with multiple different point of interest items and each point of interest item may be associated with multiple tags. Additionally in some aspects users may enter tags in a free form manner in order to create new tags that did not previously exist. As noted the user provided tags may be normalized in order to lessen naming deviations. For example if a user is attempting to create a new tag titled weird outdoor sculptures and a tag already exists titled weird outdoor art the tag rating module may suggest that the user name the new tag weird outdoor art or at least indicate that this tag already exists or the tag rating module may create the new tag and associate the two tags so that they reference the same data. In other words users associating items with or rating either tag will actually be entering data for the same tag even though the two tags look distinct by name.

In at least one non limiting example one or more users with accounts e.g. associated with the community may visit a new city town or area and while visiting the new area may encounter one or more landmarks. For example a user may visit Seattle regardless of whether they ve been there before or whether or not they live there and go to the Space Needle. The user may then access the point of interest management computers via a user device and perform one or more of several possible actions. For example the user may check in or otherwise indicate that they are currently at a point of interest item i.e. the Space Needle the user may rate the point of interest item the user may generate one or more tags associated with this point of interest item e.g. architecture Worlds Fair tower viewpoint icon Seattle tourist trap historical etc. and or the enter the point of interest item as a new item in the system. Further in some examples the tag rating module may also be configured to receive ratings of a point of interest item a point of interest item with respect to a category e.g. each association for a single point of interest item may be rated and or point of interest tags themselves. The tag rating module may also be configured to receive check in information and or pictures utilized to verify that the user actually visited the point of interest item or to weight a rating e.g. point of interest items that are visited may be given greater weight during the recommendation mapping stage than point of interest items that are just rated from afar . The tag rating module may also be configured to provide to a user the number of users that tagged each particular point of interest item with which particular tags. For example a user may be able to view that 10 people tagged the Space Needle as touristy while 100 people tagged it as interpretive. 

The recommendation module may be configured in some examples to determine appropriate point of interest recommendations for users of the system. For example the recommendation module may recommend a point of interest item and or a point of interest tag to a user or a group of users. In some cases the determined recommendations may be based at least in part on the user preferences or a group profile generated by combining or averaging a group of user profiles the community provided ratings the community provided tags and or other user ratings with profiles similar to the user to whom the recommendation is being determined for. For example a user may have indicated that they prefer weird outdoor art during a setup stage or over time the tag rating module may have received a large number of high ratings or check ins in relation to other ratings or check ins for other items or tags . As such weird outdoor art may be randomly recommended to the user whenever they are near particularly high rated items of that category. In some examples the user may be enabled to set configurations for the recommendations. For example the user may indicate that they would like to receive weird outdoor art recommendations at a time after a user with a similar profile rates an item of that category above a 4 out of 5 above an 9 out of 10 or the like. Similarly the user may configure the system to notify them i.e. provide recommendations whenever he or she is within a certain distance from items of a category that are above a certain rating. As such a user s geolocation information may be provided to the recommendation module on a periodic basis in order for this information to be utilized by the determination step.

Additionally as noted in some examples point of interest items may be recommended to users based at least in part on the ratings they or other users have provided based at least in part on actual visits by the rating users and or based at least in part on how long a rating user has visited the item. For example if users only visit an item for a short amount of time e.g. identified by the geolocation information associated time stamps and or a notification of when a user arrives and departs from a particular location the weight given to the ratings provided may be less than the weight given to ratings provided for items where users stay for a longer period of time when visiting. Further the recommendation module may also be configured to provide the determined point of interest item recommendations to the users e.g. via the point of interest mapping UI of a user device .

In some examples the mapping module may be configured to provide several different types of maps and or mapping functionality including but not limited to maps of point of interest item recommendations maps of point of interest items within a city region or map view driving directions i.e. map routes to or from point of interest items and or recommendations and or a playlist or itinerary of driving directions for a particular user particular geographic area particular amount of time etc. By way of example only a user may utilize a mapping application and or the point of interest management computers to get directions from point A to point B. As such the mapping module may be configured to provide point of interest item recommendations that are on the route near the route above a certain rating threshold preferred by the user based at least in part on his or her profile etc. The user may be enabled to set thresholds favorite tags favorite items etc. for indicating what they would like to be notified about on their route. In some cases the mapping module may notify the user of point of interest items they will pass on their current route items above a certain threshold e.g. configured by the user that are on the route favorites that are on the route a window of driving deviation that would be needed to visit an item not directly on the route and or items within a particular geofence e.g. configured by the user based at least in part on the surrounding roads and or traffic.

Additionally in some aspects the mapping module may provide a map listing point of interest items that were recommended by the recommendation module . For example a map may be provided with relevant point of interest items marked on the map so it clear where each is located relative the user and each other. The mapping module may also be configured to provide a playlist itinerary or other vacation plan for a traveler that is not familiar with a city and would like to see as many landmarks attractions as possible. As such the user or a group of users may be enabled to configure the mapping module with an amount of time the user has to sightsee one or more modes of transportation e.g. a private vehicle public transportation cycling walking etc. and or a set of tags items and or rating preferences. Based at least in part on this information the mapping module may be configured to generate an itinerary including but not limited to directions to each item an optimal order of visitation and or how long to stay at each point of interest item. Additionally the total or average amounts of time that users typically stay at the point of interest items may be utilized as a factor in determining the itinerary. For example if a user indicates that the playlist should only last for 4 hours and one item is usually visited for 5 hours that point of interest item would not be included into the itinerary. The directions may be provided such that the users may follow them using the mode of transportation requested or they may select to change the mode of transportation in which case the direction set may be updated by the mapping module as desired.

Further in some examples the mapping module may be configured to provide random trip recommendations trip plans provided or otherwise configured by users which may get their own tags e.g. a tag for the trip major point of interest item trips trips based at least in part on a group profile e.g. one that takes multiple user profiles into account to maximize the number of satisfied users . Additional features of the mapping module may include but are not limited to parking locations during the trip subway routes for visiting point of interest items recommended visiting times e.g. based at least in part on when certain items or areas of town are typically busy toll road charges point of interest item entrance fees and or how long users typically visit each point of interest item. Further utilizing the point of interest item recommendations the point of interest maps and or a user s geolocation information A B testing may be performed by at least one module of the point of interest management computers e.g. the point of interest module to determine whether a user actually prefers items and or categories that they indicate as preferred and or whether a user actually visits the point of interest items that are recommended to him or her. For example different point of interest item recommendation algorithms may generate different recommended items. By comparing a user s actual item visits and or an amount of time for such visits with a set of recommendations an optimal or preferred recommendation algorithm may be determined or otherwise selected. Future recommendations may then be based at least in part on the optimal recommendation algorithm.

A few additional examples of the operations of the point of interest management computers are also described in greater detail below with reference to .

In some examples the list may be sorted and or filtered to provide the user with more customized information. Additionally in some examples images of the point of interest items may be displayed when a cursor is placed over the number. Additionally as noted above in some examples the items may not be provided in any particular order. As such the items may not even be provided in a list. In fact the point of interest item recommendations may be provided in any visual format as desired including but not limited to in a chart as a graph scattered across a page in a row or column with no enumeration etc. Items may also be resized or re rendered to fit on a screen depending on the resolution and or screen size of the user device being utilized to display the point of interest item recommendations.

Additionally some any or all of the processes may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

In some examples the one or more point of interest management computers e.g. utilizing at least the recommendation module shown in may perform the process of . The process may begin at by receiving a rating of a point of interest tag from a first user. In some examples this may be part of the initial setup process where a user is providing preferences that may be utilized to generate a user profile. At the process may include determining a user profile for the first user based at least in part on ratings provided that are associated with one or more point of interest tags. In some examples the process may also include receiving information associated with point of interest items from a second user at . The second user may be at least one of a community of users or members of a point of interest management system. At the process may include receiving a rating of a second point of interest item. In some cases this rating is from the first user and is based at least in part on reviewing or visiting point of interest items. This may be separate from the setup process where the first user entered preference information for setting up a profile. In this case the rating of the second point of interest item is any rating by the first user and or members of the community of raters. In some examples based at least in part on the rating information received at the process may include updating the first user s profile. In other words the first user s profile may be periodically updated based at least in part on ratings provided by that first user. At the process may include determining a point of interest recommendation based at least in part on the user profile of the first user and or the received rating information. At the process may end by including providing the point of interest recommendation to the first user.

Illustrative methods and systems for performing automated infrastructure configuration are described above. Some or all of these systems and methods may but need not be implemented at least partially by architectures such as those shown at least in above.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as RAM or ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

