---

title: Method for transmitting video signals from an application on a server over an IP network to a client device
abstract: A method for transmitting a video signal from an application running on a server over an IP network to a client device. The application is drawing its content, in a plurality of sequential drawing events, into a virtual frame buffer. Simultaneously, each drawing event is registered in a list of drawing events and each drawing event is associated with an address (location) of each area that was affected by this drawing event. The list is repetitively checked and if any area have changed since previous periodic check, such area is retrieved, segmented into blocks of standardized size and transmitted, together with its address in a frame, over the IP network to the client. On the client side the encoded blocks are received and combined, using the address data, into frames of an encoded video stream that can be directly fed into an industry standard decoder of client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226003&OS=09226003&RS=09226003
owner: Streamtainment Systems OÜ
number: 09226003
owner_city: Tallinn
owner_country: EE
publication_date: 20120827
---
This application is a national phase application filed under 35 USC 371 of PCT Application No. PCT EP2012 066628 with an International filing date of Aug. 27 2012 which claims priority to European Patent Application No. 11006978.8 filed Aug. 26 2011. Each of these applications is herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

This invention belongs into the field on telecommunications particularly to systems and methods of transmitting video signals from an application on a server over an IP network to a client device e.g. internet protocol TV IPTV device mobile device or PC for providing services combined with advanced interactive applications such as voice or video calling video gaming video surveillance video on demand VOD etc.

Current operating systems typically include a graphical drawing interface layer that is accessed by applications in order to render drawings on a display such as a monitor. The graphical drawing interface layer provides applications an application programming interface API for drawings and converts drawing requests by such applications into a set of drawing commands that it then provides to a video adapter driver. The video adapter driver in turn receives the drawing commands translates them into video adapter specific drawing primitives and forwards them to a video adapter e.g. graphics card integrated video chipset etc. . The video adapter receives the drawing primitives and immediately processes them or alternatively stores them in a First In First Out FIFO buffer for sequential execution to update a framebuffer in the video adapter that is used to generate and transmit a video signal to a coupled external display.

Client server based solutions are becoming more and more widespread. In such solutions the client has relatively limited to very limited resources e.g. in terms of limited processing power limited memory resources or limited power supply. Also the communication channel between server and client device almost always tends to be limited having limited bandwidth or high latency.

Client server based solutions include remote desktop management thin client applications but also applications streaming video signal into a client device such as smart phone or for example client devices such as settop box STB including for Internet TV or Internet Protocol TV IPTV . Such applications include TV programming VOD video games video communication solutions video surveillance solutions etc.

While mainframe terminal solutions have been around since the very beginning of computers dedicated lines were used to connect mainframe to the monitor. Today the challenge is that for video signal often an Internet Protocol IP based connection channel is used to connect server and client. Applications are hosted on remote servers or virtual machines running thereon in a data centre. A thin client application installed on a user s terminal connects to a remote desktop server that transmits a graphical user interface GUI of an operating system session for rendering on the display of the user s terminal. One example of such a remote desktop server system is Virtual Computing Network VNC which utilizes the Remote Framebuffer RFB protocol to transmit framebuffers which contain the values for every pixel to be displayed on a screen from the remote desktop server to the client. While from the client device requirements viewpoint the goal is that all the image processing is performed on a server side it would result in extremely large amounts of raw data to be transmitted from server to client device e.g. for an image resolution of 1920 1200 and color depth of 24 bits per pixel at a rate of 60 times per second would require transmitting 3.09 Gb s gigabits per second . One approach is to use spatial compression i.e. each frame is compressed using lossless or lossy encoding such as Discrete Cosine Transform DCT .

Additionally only those parts of the frame that have changed compared to previous frame should be transmitted from the server to the client. For that purpose the frame is divided into subparts and on server side each subpart is compared with the subpart of a previous frame. For example current frame is saved in a primary buffer and a previous frame is saved in a secondary buffer. Solutions exist were only those areas blocks are updated from primary buffer to a secondary buffer that have changed.

Both spatial and temporal compression is required in the server side resulting in need on the client side to easily decode the signal without overburdening the client device.

Encoding and decoding are widely used in video transmission. MPEG2 and MPEG 4 H.264 are industry standards and widely used. Video signal is first encoded using both spatial and temporal compression. Spatial compression is performed within a frame similarly to compression used for JPEG and is based on DCT that describes a set of pixels by a set of superimposed cosine waveforms. DCT is applied to 8 8 pixel blocks. Additionally temporal compression is used. MPEG2 uses 3 types of frames I B P I frame is fully encoded frame. P is predicted frame based on I frame. P can be decoded only after previous I frame is decoded. B is bi directionally predicted frame based on both I and P frame. Further in addition that there are 3 types of frames each type of frame comprises blocks that can be I B or P type. I frames contain only I type blocks P frames contain I or P type blocks and B type frames contain I B or P type blocks. Additionally each macroblock 16 16 pixels can introduce a motion vector useful e.g. for camera panning. Most client devices such as settop boxes smart or mobile phones thin clients etc. usually include MPEG2 and or MPEG4 decoder.

Known is U.S. Pat. No. 7 649 937 published as US2006 0020710 disclosing a method of to deliver real time video data over the Internet. A streaming processor receives raw video data from a video source the video data is compressed by grouping pixels into blocks and comparing blocks of adjacent i.e. consecutive in time frames of video data to identify any changes. Only blocks that have been changed are transmitted. In addition if a block has changed to a previously transmitted block then only an identification index for the block is transmitted. The actual content of the block can then be recreated by comparing the index to a list of previously received blocks. This method requires storing on a server at least two adjacent consecutive frames and comparing such frames pixel by pixel or block by block to identify any changes.

Known is GB2318956 disclosing a display screen duplication system and method for maintaining duplicate copies of all or a portion of a display screen at two or more computer systems. The display screens are segmented into a two dimensional matrix of blocks. A value e.g. CRC is computed for each of the blocks and stored with a pointer to the corresponding block of the display screen. Changes in the display screen are detected by repeatedly calculating the values and comparing with previously stored values for the corresponding block. When the values are different the pointers are temporarily stored until a predetermined period of time or all the blocks have been checked. When at least one of these criteria is met adjacent blocks are transmitted as a group preferably using compression. This method requires repeatedly comparing consecutive display screens block by block.

Known is U.S. Pat. No. 4 823 108 describing a method for displaying information in overlapping windows on a video display of a computer controlled video display system independent of the operating system of the computer. The computer program output display data can be written within windows on the video display without substantial modification of the application program by writing such data to a pseudo screen buffer for temporary storage. The contents of the pseudo screen buffer are then compared with the contents of a previous image buffer at selected timer controlled intervals. At memory locations where the data differs the differing data are written into the previous image buffer. As display data is thereby identified and periodically updated it is displayed in selected windows. This method requires comparing consecutive image buffers and updating the image buffer accordingly.

Known is WO00 65464 disclosing a system and method for controlling information displayed on a first processor based system from a second processor based system. The apparatus comprises a memory to store instruction sequences by which the second processor based system is processed and a processor coupled to the memory. The stored instruction sequences cause the processor to a examine at a predetermined interval a location of a currently displayed image b compare the location with a corresponding location of a previously displayed image to determine if the previously displayed image has changed c transmitting location information representing the change and d storing the changed information on the first processor based system. Specifically the CPU keeps a record of the location of the most recent changes and examines those locations more frequently. This technique is based on the assumption that a change will very likely occur close the location of a most recent change involving an input output device activity.

Known is U.S. Pat. No. 5 241 625 disclosing a system for remotely controlling information displayed on a computer screen by intercepting output events such as graphics calls. Graphics commands which drive a computer window system are captured and saved as a stored record or sent to other computers. A message translation program translates the captured messages for playback on a designated computer.

Known is U.S. Pat. No. 5 796 566 disclosing a system in which sequences of video screens forwarded from a host CPU to a video controller are stored and subsequently retrieved by a terminal located remote from the host CPU. In particular display data is captured in a local frame buffer which stores the display data frame by frame. A previous frame or screen of display data is compared with a current frame or screen of display data to determine if a change has occurred.

Known is U.S. Pat. No. 7 882 172 published as US2007 268824 disclosing a thin client system for a high quality picture reproduction method for using a thin client terminal as TV phone terminal and a TV conference terminal. The method of the patent comprises on a screen data transmission side initializing the screen block table e.g. by setting each block data of the table to a default value if an update is detected in the screen information control enters a loop to transmit the differential data to the remote controller comprising sequentially reading screen information from the VRAM from the upper left block to the lower right block in the first screen monitor loop obtaining screen block data corresponding to the block number designated by the VRAM next comparing the screen block data with data of the associated block number stored in the screen block table if the data matches with the data stored in the table it is determined that the screen has not been updated. Control returns to processing to acquire next block data if it is determined as a result of data comparison that the data does not match each other it is recognized that the screen has been updated and the obtained screen block data is stored as the value of the associated block number the screen block data is compressed the compressed block data is sent together with the block number to the remote controller the sequence of processing steps are repeatedly executed at a predetermined interval of time on a screen data reception processing side the screen block data is received and is written into VRAM CL to thereby display an updated screen on the display of the terminal first the block number and the screen block data are received the screen block data compressed as above is expanded or decompressed the decompressed data is written in an associated area of the VRAM CL corresponding to the block number. As a result the contents of the screen update are presented on the display finally the sequence of processing steps are repeatedly executed until the process is terminated. It is possible that only the blocks in which a change takes place in the screen is efficiently transmitted.

This may be considered the closest known solution. However according to this method the received blocks are first expanded or decompressed and then stored in a VRAM CL. Such method cannot be used or has no advantages if the thin client device is equipped with industry standard video decoder such as MPEG2 or H.264.

What is needed is better and more efficient method of transmitting video signals over an IP network to a client device with limited resources as to processing power memory or power resources such as an IPTV device or mobile devices such as smart phone. The goal of the invention is to further reduce the amount of data to be transferred over the IP network from a server to a client device. Another goal is to provide low latency transmission over the IP network from a server to a client device. Further goal of the invention is that the invented method does not require additional processing power on the client device. Further goal of the invention is to provide a method that can make use of an industry standard decoding method on the client side even though the video signal transmitted over the IP network is not that industry standard signal. Another goal of the invention is a method that can be used for applications requiring receiving by the server video signals also from the client side i.e. video conferencing video gaming etc.

These and other goals of the invention are achieved by a method for transmitting a video signal over an IP network form a first application running on a server to a client device said first application generating a video output that is intended to be shown as images on a display device as follows. The first application is drawing its content into a virtual frame buffer in a plurality of consecutive drawing events. A drawing event being any output command generated by the application intended to change the image on the display device by changing the content of the frame buffer regardless of any specific hardware software libraries or software layers used. The content represents images to be shown each such image comprising of a plurality of pixels the virtual frame buffer thus at each moment of time comprising the freshest complete image. Simultaneously each drawing event is entered into a list of drawing events. Each drawing event is associated in the list of drawing events with data defining the area or areas of the image that was were affected by the corresponding drawing event. These steps are repeated as long as the first application is running.

Then repetitively at discrete time intervals it is determined directly from the list of drawing events which area or areas of the image have been changed by any drawing events since previous determination one discrete time interval earlier. Such area or areas of image is are segmented into one or more blocks of pixels said blocks having predetermined size. Such blocks are stored together with their identification data in an output buffer of blocks of predetermined size. More than one subsequent in time blocks may be stored in the output buffer so that temporal compressing methods can be used. Then periodically at periodic time intervals said blocks stored in an output buffer are encoded together with their identification data and said encoded blocks are transmitted over the IP network to the client device.

According to one preferred embodiment the method further comprises a step of optimizing the list of drawing events by removing events that have changed any area that is also changed by a later event in the list by scanning the list for events that have changed areas that partially overlap and combining such overlapping areas into a set of non overlapping rectangular areas or both such steps.

According to one embodiment the lengths of said discrete time intervals are adjusted depending on the frequency of drawing events i.e. depending on how often the drawing events occur. For example shorter time interval may be preferred when the drawing events occur more often thereby keeping the list of drawing events shorter. According to one embodiment said segmenting takes place immediately when the drawing event occurs. In other words each of said discrete intervals is determined by and is equal to a time interval between two successive drawing events.

On the client side the method comprises receiving said encoded blocks with their identification data storing said encoded blocks in a buffer according to their identification data and periodically receiving and assembling said encoded blocks from said buffer into encoded frames of an encoded video stream suitable for being decoded by a decoder in said client device. Such encoded video stream can be directly fed to a decoder in said client device to be decoded and shown on a display of a client device. The decoder is preferably an industry standard video decoder capable of decoding video streams in video standard format such as MPEG2 or H.264 format. Also the block size may be determined by that decoding method. For example for MPEG2 and H.264 the suitable block is 16 by 16 pixels so called macroblock . It is important to appreciate that while standard decoder can be used on the client side without any modifications the signal on the server side is not coded according to this standard and no such coding device is needed on the server.

The periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks in the server side may be determined by a nominal frame rate of said decoder in said client device. E.g. for a MPEG2 decoder with nominal frame rate 25 fps the periodic time interval may be chosen 1 s 25 fps 40 ms. In a more preferred embodiment said periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks in the server side is further adjusted by feedback from the client side so that a decoder input buffer that is receiving said encoded video stream comprises not more than a preset number of frames preferably from 1 to 100 more preferably from 2 to 6 . Generally the periodic time interval is chosen so that the periodic checks take place 24 to 60 times per second.

The method can be used also for video calling for video conferencing for video gaming and video surveillance or other applications where also receiving a video signal from the client side is necessary. In this case the method comprises further steps of creating a virtual camera device on the server side the first application making calls i.e. requests to the virtual camera device intercepting said calls made by the first application to the virtual camera device transmitting the intercepted calls over the IP network to a camera that is connected to or integrated with the client device over a computer hardware bus such camera may be a USB device or a camera integrated into a mobile device transmitting encoded a video signal from the camera over the IP network to the server and forwarding the encoded said video signal through the virtual camera device to the first application.

The method may further comprise running a third application on the client device wherein the third application is adapted to receive a video signal from the camera and to forward the encoded video stream over the IP network to a second application running in the server wherein the second application is receiving and processing the video stream wherein said processing includes encoding and transcoding when necessary thereby feeding the first application with the video stream obtained by the third application from the camera of the client device.

The client device such as IPTV device a set top box including non IPTV set top box OTT set top box digital TV set top box cable TV box etc smart phone pocket PC tablet PC a mobile phone a PC or an internet connected TV such as Smart TV or gaming console is equipped with an input device for receiving control events the method comprises forwarding the control events over the IP network to the first application running on a server thereby allowing interaction between the client device and the first application. Such input device may be a remote control a keyboard a mouse a motion sensing input device or a touch sensor etc.

The method may further comprise receiving control events from a separate i.e. independent from said client device control device connected to said server over an IP network. Such control device could be a smart phone a mobile phone pocket PC tablet PC a mobile phone or a PC etc.

The method may further comprise receiving video signals from a separate i.e. independent i.e. not connected to and not integrated with said client device web camera connected to said server over an IP network. The web camera may comprise functionalities to be connected to IP network an IP camera or may be connected through an additional IP camera adapter.

In a preferred embodiment the first application on a server side is run on a virtual machine. Many virtual machines may be created on said server each virtual machine running an application for its own client.

The goal of the invention is also achieved by a method of transmitting a video signal from an application running on a server over an IP network to a client device. The application is drawing its content its output images as in a plurality of sequential drawing events into a virtual frame buffer. Simultaneously each drawing event is registered in a list of drawing events and each drawing event is associated with an address location in a frame also in a virtual frame buffer of each block that was affected by this drawing event. The list of drawing events is periodically checked and if any of the blocks within frame have changed since previous periodic check such block is retrieved from the virtual frame buffer and is transmitted together with its address in a frame over the IP network to the client.

On the client side in the client device the blocks are received and are combined using the address data into frames of a video stream.

While uncompressed blocks may be transmitted in some cases preferably on the server side the blocks are encoded e.g. spatially compressed using proprietary or industry standard compressing methods e.g. DCT before the blocks are transmitted.

On the client side the received encoded blocks are stored into a virtual frame buffer using their address data. The content of the virtual frame buffer is periodically retrieved as a frame of an encoded video stream. The encoded video stream is then inputted into a decoder and the decoded stream is then to the display of the client device. While proprietary coding and decoding can be used in a preferred embodiment the blocks are assembled into frames so that industry standard decoding method can be used by the client device. In particularly preferred embodiment a decoding method already supported by the client device is used. For example if the client device is an IPTV device or other set top box it typically already supports MPEG2 and or H.264 video decoding. Then the blocks are assembled so that the frames can be decoded using MPEG2 and or H.264 video coding.

While uncompressed blocks may be transmitted in some cases usually it is preferable that on the server side the blocks are spatially compressed using proprietary or industry standard compressing methods such as Discrete Cosine Transform DCT before the blocks are transmitted.

On the client side the encoded blocks are assembled into encoded frames the frames are assembled into an encoded stream of frames and then the encoded stream can be decoded. While proprietary coding and decoding can be used in a preferred embodiment the encoded blocks are assembled into encoded frames and the encoded frames into the encoded stream of frames so that industry standard decoding method can be used by the client device. In particularly preferred embodiment a decoding method already supported by the client device is used. For example if the client device is an IPTV device such as a settop box STB it typically already supports MPEG2 and or H.264 video decoding. Then the blocks are assembled so that the frames can be decoded using MPEG2 and or H.264 video coding.

In client device the received blocks are stored in a buffer using the address data. The content of the buffer is periodically retrieved decoded and outputted to the display of the client device.

Preferably an industry standard encoding is used so that no or minimum extra processing power is needed on a client device. E.g. if the client device is a STB in an IPTV system it most likely already includes a MPEG2 or H.264 decoder. The same applies if the client device is a smartphone a pocket PC or other similar device. However according to MPEG2 and H.264 full frames are transmitted while according to invented method only changed parts of the frame are transmitted. The solution is that in the client side a list of current parts of the frame is kept and when new changed parts arrive they are combined with the parts of the frame already existing on the client device and then the frame is decoded. It is important to understand that no MPEG2 encoding is performed on the server side but spatial compression e.g. based on DCT of blocks may be carried out.

The block size is preferably matched to the coding method. E.g. if MPEG2 decoding is used then it is most advantageous to use so called macroblocks as defined by MPEG2 standard i.e. blocks of 16 by 16 pixels. Then it is easiest to combine the encoded blocks into a full encoded frame on the client side. Also then also temporal compression according to MPEG2 standard can be used when subsequent frames are saved e.g. cached on a server side prior to coding and sending over the IP network.

The method is particularly useful for IPTV internet TV and OTT solutions where the operators would like to provide additional services such as video gaming video calling and video conferencing video surveillance video on demand VOD but the client devices so called set top boxes STB does not have enough processing power and or other resources to run such additional applications in a client device. On the other hand many such applications are not adapted to run over a network. According to the invented method such applications may be run on a server side and only their video output that would be ordinarily sent to the display device are according to the invention instead sent over an IP network to a client device STB . Preferably the server comprises several virtual machines and each application is run on a different virtual machine. Thus applications for each client are separated making the system more secure and more reliable error proof .

The method according to second embodiment is explained with reference to . Similarly to the first embodiment an application is running on a server and is generating a video output that is intended to be shown as a series of images or as a video on a display device. In step the application is drawing its content into a virtual frame buffer in a plurality of consecutive drawing events each such event affecting an area of the image shown as and on . The virtual frame buffer thus at each time moment always comprises the freshest image that is intended by the first application to be shown on a display of the client device. Simultaneously in step each drawing event shown as affecting area and affecting area on is entered into a list of drawing events together with data defining the area of the image that was affected i.e. overdrawn by corresponding drawing event. The area may be defined e.g. their address in a virtual frame buffer or by the corner coordinates of a polygon which in simplest cases may be a rectangular or a square shaped or by other means. Then as step at discrete time intervals repetitively determining directly from the list of drawing events which areas of the image have been changed by said drawing events since previous determination one discrete time interval earlier and as step segmenting said changed areas of the image into one or more blocks of pixels wherein said blocks having predetermined size e.g. 16 by 16 pixels and storing step such predetermined size blocks together with their identification data in an output buffer . Then as step at periodic time intervals such blocks stored in the output buffer are encoded together with their identification data into a stream of encoded data and such encoded blocks are transmitted in step over the IP network to the client device.

On the client side the method comprises as step receiving said encoded blocks with their identification data and storing said encoded blocks in a buffer according to their identification data step . Thus the buffer always contains all the received encoded blocks needed for composing the freshest full image frame to be shown. Then as step said encoded block are periodically retrieved from said buffer and assembled into encoded frames of an encoded video stream suitable for being sent to and decoded by a decoder in said client device. Such encoded video stream can be directly fed into a decoder in said client device to be decoded and shown on a display of a client device. The decoder is preferably an industry standard video decoder capable of decoding video streams in video standard format such as MPEG2 or H.264 format. Also the block size may be determined by that decoding method. For example for MPEG2 and H.264 the suitable block is 16 by 16 pixels so called macroblock . It is important to appreciate that while standard decoder can be used on the client side without any modifications the signal on the server side is not coded according to this standard and no such coding device is needed on the server.

The discrete time interval of step on the server side may be constant e.g. 10 ms 20 ms 30 ms 40 ms etc adjustable e.g. according to the desired length of list of events or according to the total number or size of areas changed since previous determination etc. or adjustable according to the periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks.

The periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks in the server side may be determined by a nominal frame rate of said decoder in said client device. E.g. for a MPEG2 decoder with nominal frame rate 25 fps the periodic time interval may be chosen 1 s 25 fps 40 ms. In a more preferred embodiment said periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks in the server side is further adjusted by feedback from the client side so that a decoder input buffer that is receiving said encoded video stream comprises not more than a preset number of frames. Generally the periodic time interval is chosen so that the periodic checks take place 24 to 60 times per second.

The methods as described may comprise a step of optimization by consolidating the events in the list of events to optimize the process. The step of optimizing the list of drawing events is carried out before retrieving the blocks from the virtual frame buffer according to first example or before segmenting the areas according to second example. The step of optimizing comprises first removing events that have changed the area of the image if exactly the same area is also changed by a later event in the list. Secondly further optimization is accomplished by scanning the list for events that have changed areas that partially overlap and combining such overlapping areas into a set of non overlapping preferably rectangular areas.

The methods as described may further comprise a step of controlling the buffer size on the client device by adjusting the periodic time interval for outputting encoded block in the server steps and correspondingly . Generally the periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks in the server side is fixed or may be determined by a nominal frame rate of said decoder in said client device. E.g. for a MPEG2 decoder with nominal frame rate 25 fps the periodic time interval may be chosen 1 s 25 fps 40 ms. However a preferred embodiment said periodic time interval for outputting encoded blocks in the server side is further adjusted by feedback from the client side so that a decoder input buffer that is receiving said encoded video stream comprises not more than a preset number of frames. It is accomplished by slightly increasing the periodic time interval so that the actual outputting rate is e.g. 24 9 frames per second for a nominal frame rate of 25 frames. The number of frames thus in the output buffer can be kept e.g. preferably from around 2 to 5. This allows quick response time when user request is received from the client device and the display must be updated as a response to this user request.

The methods as described are suitable for video transmission from a server to a client where client to server video transmission is not required. Such applications include most of the video games remote desktop applications but also TV and video streaming. For many applications such as video calling video conferencing some video games and video surveillance applications also video transmission from the client device to the server is required. However as was the presumption from the beginning the client device has limited resources. One or the other resource may be more limiting in particular situations. For example for IPTV devices generally no extra processing power is available. For mobile devices for modern devices the processing power may be less limiting than the power consumption hence the battery life and for slower and or overloaded networks the quality of the network connection in terms of both bandwidth and latency may be the biggest issue. A video transmitting device with video encoding compressing capabilities is therefore used with client device. The problem now becomes however that the application running on the server is typically adapted to work with a camera that is connected to the server and thus the first application cannot find nor use instead the camera that is connected to the client device. To solve this problem the method is further modified by creating a virtual camera device on the server side intercepting calls i.e. the requests by the application to the virtual camera device transmitting the intercepted calls to the camera connected to the client device transmitting signals from camera over the IP network to the server where the application can receive the signal from the virtual camera device.

The method may be modified to comprise running a third application on the client device wherein the third application is adapted to receive a video signal from the camera and to forward the encoded video stream over the IP network to a second application running in the server. The second application is receiving and processing the video stream. The processing may include e.g. encoding or transcoding when necessary thereby feeding the first application with the video stream obtained by the third application from the camera of the client device.

Similarly when the client device is a mobile device similar but modified approach may be used to connect with a camera of the mobile device. Similarly when the first application running on a server is trying to use a camera it sends calls to a virtual camera device instead of a real device. The calls are intercepted by a second application running on a server wherein the second application generates such responses to the calls as a real video device would have. In a mobile device a third application is running wherein the third application is adapted to receive encoded video stream from the camera of the mobile device and to forward the video stream over the IP network to the second application running in the server wherein the second application is receiving the video stream and is decoding it. Thus the second application is feeding the first application the video stream obtained by the third application from the camera of the mobile device.

The client device such as IPTV device a smart phone pocket PC tablet PC a mobile phone a PC or an internet connected TV is preferably equipped with an input device for receiving control events. The control events are forwarded over the IP network to the first application running on a server thereby allowing interaction between the client device and the first application. Such input device may be remote control keyboard mouse or a touch sensor etc.

The control events may be also received from a separate i.e. independent from said client device control device connected to said server over an IP network. Such control device could be a smart phone a mobile phone pocket PC tablet PC a mobile phone a PC etc.

Also the video signals may be received from a separate i.e. independent i.e. not connected to and not integrated with the client device web camera connected to said server over an IP network. The web camera may be adapted to be connected to IP network an IP camera or may be connected through an additional IP camera adapter. Also a mobile device such as mobile phone smart phone tablet PC or like with camera may be used as a separate independent source of video signals.

In a preferred embodiment the first application on a server side is run on a virtual machine. Many virtual machines may be created on said server each virtual machine running an application for its own client.

