---

title: Association and extraction of content artifacts from a graphical representation of electronic content
abstract: A computer implemented method and system is provided for associating and extracting content artifacts from a graphical representation of electronic content. A multi-dimensional virtual lattice comprising one or more grid layers is created. The nodes of the multi-dimensional virtual lattice represent metadata acquired from predefined content criteria. Electronic content comprising content artifacts acquired from multiple content sources is graphically represented within the multi-dimensional virtual lattice using the grid layers. Each of the content artifacts from the electronic content attaches to one or more nodes of the multi-dimensional virtual lattice. A user provides search criteria comprising keywords. The content artifacts attached to nodes of the multi-dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the keywords are extracted and displayed to the user. The graphical representation of electronic content in the multi-dimensional virtual lattice is used to associate, extract, composite, project, and organize the content artifacts acquired from the content sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688751&OS=08688751&RS=08688751
owner: CK12 Foundation
number: 08688751
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 12 629 026 titled Association and Extraction of Content Artifacts from a Graphical Representation of Electronic Content filed Dec. 1 2009 in the United States Patent and Trademark Office which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 121 188 titled Association And Extraction Of Content Artifacts From A Graphical Representation Of Online Content filed Dec. 11 2008 in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 12 629 026 and provisional patent application No. 61 121 188 are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In an online collaborative authoring and customized publishing environment participating authors moderators publishers and readers need to manage online books articles study chapters research papers other content artifacts online etc. Community members may also need to catalog organize search browse or navigate through the content artifacts online. The community members may need to be provided with current and relevant information related to the content artifacts. Typically a catalog of contents may be organized using one or a combination of online cataloging techniques based on taxonomy based hierarchical categories preferred order of sequence or conditional parameters. There is a need for leveraging the user s context and combining these online cataloging techniques in order to achieve better results and to provide reliable and accurate content management solutions to community members.

Community members may also need to be notified regarding relevant interdependencies related to the content artifacts as well as information based on multi dimensional characteristics for example geography demography curriculum etc. There is a need to provide mechanisms to associate metadata tags corresponding to the content artifacts both explicitly and implicitly to aid the community members in perusing the content artifacts. Furthermore there is a need for graphically representing the online information obtained through search or publications to visually convey logical associations related to the searched or published content artifacts. Community members may also need to narrow down and extract contextual information from available online information obtained through the search.

Hence there is a need for a computer implemented method and system that graphically represents electronic content on a multi dimensional virtual lattice and enables association and extraction of content artifacts from the graphical representation of electronic content in order to provide the right content to the right user at the right time with minimal user interaction.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described in the detailed description of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein addresses the above stated needs for associating and extracting content artifacts from a graphical representation of electronic content. As used herein electronic content refers to for example online content web pages files word processing electronic documents etc.

The computer implemented method disclosed herein comprises a creating a multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising one or more grid layers generated based on predefined content criteria wherein nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice represent metadata acquired from the predefined content criteria b graphically representing the electronic content comprising content artifacts acquired from multiple content sources within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the grid layers wherein each of the content artifacts from the electronic content attaches to one or more of the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice c receiving search criteria comprising keywords from a user and d extracting content artifacts attached to nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the keywords in the search criteria.

The predefined content criteria comprise for example user defined content criteria and content criteria obtained from a metadata database. The predefined content criteria comprise for example domain criteria standards criteria pedagogic criteria parametric criteria demographic criteria chronology criteria format criteria etc. The computer implemented method disclosed herein allows unique identification of the content artifacts attached to the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using multiple identifiers assigned by an artifact database. Each of the content artifacts from the acquired electronic content attaches to one or more of the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice based on explicit definition provided by a user or implicit matching criteria generated by the computer implemented system disclosed herein.

In an embodiment the grid layers comprise for example a foundation grid layer for representing the content artifacts based on domains a standards grid layer overlaid on the foundation grid layer for logically representing the content artifacts based on a curriculum and state standards framework a pedagogical grid layer overlaid on the standards grid layer and or the foundation grid layer for pedagogically representing the content artifacts and a parametric grid layer overlaid on the pedagogical grid layer for parametrically representing the content artifacts based on user defined attributes and a set of ad hoc representation parameters.

In the computer implemented method disclosed herein implicit metadata and explicit metadata are acquired from the search criteria the electronic content and the predefined content criteria for associating the content artifacts that are graphically represented within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice. The acquired metadata is stored in the metadata database. The associations between the content artifacts are also represented within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the acquired metadata. The acquired metadata is validated against a predefined set of metadata stored in the metadata database. A graphical user interface is provided for acquiring the search criteria the metadata and the predefined content criteria.

A multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising one or more grid layers is created . The multi dimensional virtual lattice comprises a multi layered virtual coordinate system. The multi layered virtual coordinate system is used for the graphical representation of acquired electronic content. The grid layers are generated based on predefined content criteria. The predefined content criteria comprise user defined content criteria content criteria obtained from a metadata database etc. The predefined content criteria comprise for example domain criteria standards criteria pedagogic criteria parametric criteria demographic criteria chronology criteria format criteria etc.

Implicit metadata and explicit metadata are acquired from the predefined content criteria and stored in a metadata database. As used herein implicit metadata refers to metadata automatically derived or generated by the computer implemented system disclosed herein. Also as used herein explicit metadata refers to metadata declared by a user. The implicit metadata comprises for example predefined tags usage patterns parsed keywords rule based pre requisites etc. The explicit metadata comprises for example user defined tags and parameters content dependencies declared by domain experts associations related to curriculum frameworks etc. The implicit metadata and the explicit metadata may also be acquired and evolved from the search criteria provided by the user and the electronic content retrieved from multiple content sources. The acquired metadata is validated using a predefined set of metadata stored in the metadata database to ensure that the acquired metadata is a part of the predefined set of metadata. If the acquired metadata is not a part of the predefined set of metadata the metadata database is updated by adding the acquired metadata to the set of predefined metadata. For example the metadata CA a state standard is validated using a predefined set of state standards metadata.

The nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice represent the acquired metadata. Electronic content is acquired from multiple content sources. The content sources are for example web sites information repositories online libraries content servers etc. The electronic content is acquired from the content sources based on search criteria provided by a user or by predefined criteria. For example content licensed under Creative Commons share alike CC by SA license may be acquired from a specific web site. The search criteria comprise keywords and search terms provided by the user for example algebra algebra quadratic equations algebra quadratic equations by author name etc. The electronic content is acquired using a combination of search strategies. The search strategies are for example a hierarchical search a flat search and a parametric search. In the hierarchical search the electronic content is categorized based on predefined taxonomies. For example the search term algebra may return results categorized into algebra books algebra quizzes algebra tutorials quadratic equations cubic polynomials etc. In the flat search the retrieved electronic content is explicitly and implicitly associated with the search terms. For example the search term algebra may provide a list of highest ranked electronic content sources with the word algebra occurring frequently. In the parametric search the user may provide in addition to the search term a set of parameters to limit the search results. For example the user may provide names of specific authors as parameters with the search term algebra to narrow down the search results.

The electronic content comprises one or more content artifacts. As used herein the term content artifacts refers to standalone units of the electronic content. A content artifact is for example a book a chapter from a book an outline of a chapter an image a lesson plan a lesson a unit a worksheet or an entire syllabus. Each of the content artifacts may further comprise other content artifacts. For example a content artifact book may comprise multiple content artifacts for example chapters . Each of the chapters may comprise multiple content artifacts for example images etc. In this example book is referred to as a parent content artifact of a child content artifact chapter and chapter is referred to as a parent content artifact of child content artifacts images . The content artifacts may be holistic content artifacts image or media objects a logical grouping of content a collection of chapters etc.

The content artifacts further comprise metadata. A child content artifact inherits the metadata of a parent content artifact. If a first content artifact is used within a second content artifact that is not a parent content artifact of the first content artifact the first content artifact retains the metadata of the parent content artifacts of the first content artifact. By corollary if a first content artifact uses a second content artifact but is not a parent content artifact of the second content artifact the second content artifact will not inherit the metadata of the first content artifact.

The acquired electronic content comprising the content artifacts is graphically represented within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the grid layers. Each of the content artifacts from the acquired electronic content attaches to one or more of the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice. In an embodiment a user may explicitly define the attachment of specific content artifacts to specific nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice. In this embodiment the content artifacts from the electronic content attaches to one or more of the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice based on explicit definition provided by the user. In another embodiment the computer implemented system disclosed herein may implicitly attach specific content artifacts based on matching criteria. Further keywords from the content artifact are parsed and indexed. The nodes associated with the acquired metadata are reverse indexed to enable quick retrieval of the content artifacts.

The acquired electronic content may be represented in a predefined design pattern. Herein the predefined design pattern is exemplarily referred to as a model view controller pattern . The grid layers of the multi dimensional virtual lattice are employed to apply combinatorial criteria conditions on the electronic content for association and extraction of the content artifacts. Search results based on the search criteria are modeled in the model view controller pattern in the graphical representation. The model is a combination of pre defined and ad hoc metadata mapped onto the multi dimensional virtual lattice with horizontal grid layers mapped to specific sub sets of the domain. The views are based on the specific slices of the multi dimensional virtual lattice as specified by the user. The controls are exposed to the end user via an asynchronous JavaScript extensible markup language AJAX based or Flash based graphical user interface GUI to associate and extract content artifacts to and from the multi dimensional virtual lattice.

The content artifacts attached to the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice are uniquely identified using multiple identifiers assigned by an artifact database. The identifiers are for example a unique identifier UID an encoded identifier EID and a scoped identifier SID . The UID is machine generated and intended for internal use. The UID is not human readable and may not be manipulated externally. The UID is assigned to each of the content artifacts by the artifact database.

The EID is explicitly assigned to each of the content artifacts based on conventions predefined by an administrator. The EID encodes details about the content artifact. The EID enables an understanding of the nature of the content artifact and is both human interpretable and machine readable. The EID for identifying the content artifact is regarded as analogous to an international standard book number ISBN used for identifying a book. EIDs are generated with encodings for predefined taxonomies. An EID is represented as for example SL.SUB.NNNN.CC.DDDD .

The SID is explicitly assigned to each of the content artifacts based on predefined identification rules. The SID is namespace scoped for enabling quick access to the content artifact. SIDs is used for accessing the content artifacts with minimalist keys from one form of manifestation to another. For example an SID for a video animation from a printed virtual book is used online to view the video animation. An SID for a content artifact is regarded as analogous to a phone number or a social security number of a person. An SID is represented as for example XXX XXX XXXX .

The associations between the identified content artifacts are represented within the graphical representation of the acquired electronic content on the created multi dimensional virtual lattice. For example if a chapter is a part of a book the association between the chapter and the book is indicated visually. The associations are represented between any two or more of the content artifacts for example between a book and a curriculum an image and a chapter etc. The associations between the identified content artifacts are determined and represented using the acquired metadata associated with the content artifacts. In an embodiment the associations between the identified content artifacts may also be represented based on application programming interfaces APIs . Different association strategies are employed for the association of the content artifacts. The association strategies comprise for example associating a given content artifact with a set of user specified content metadata parsing and indexing a set of keywords from a given content artifact parsing and indexing a collection of keywords from a given set of metadata and associating a set of user defined metadata with a coordinate in the multi dimensional virtual lattice.

The user provides search criteria using a graphical user interface GUI or through an application programming interface API . The search criteria comprise keywords. The metadata is acquired from the search criteria and validated using a predefined set of metadata stored in the metadata database to ensure that the acquired metadata is a part of the predefined set of metadata. If the acquired metadata is not a part of the predefined set of metadata the metadata database is updated by adding the acquired metadata to the set of predefined metadata. On receiving the search criteria from the user the keywords from the search criteria are compared with the acquired metadata to find a match. The content artifacts attached to the nodes or combination of nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the keywords in the search criteria are extracted and are rendered to the user. The extracted content artifacts may be stored on the user s computing device. The grid layers enable selective extraction of the content artifacts from the acquired electronic content.

Different access strategies are employed for the extraction of the content artifacts. The access strategies comprises for example identifying electronic content associated with a user specified set of metadata identifying coordinates that are associated with a user specified set of metadata identifying indices associated with a user specified keyword identifying content artifacts associated with a specific index filtering out specific types of content artifacts from a given set of content artifacts etc.

Consider an example of a user who is a student interested in learning about Optics . The student may search for Advanced Topics on Optics comprising subtopics on Dispersion Total Internal Reflection Spectrometry Laser Physics etc. The user may alternatively be a parent of a seventh grade student in California searching for CA 7grade math to retrieve electronic content relevant to and associated with California s 7th grade mathematics curriculum. The user may also be a teacher who needs to provide additional information to students on a particular subject. The teacher may search for books with challenging homework along with interesting home based experiments for learning the particular subject. The graphical representation comprises mapping the retrieved electronic content onto the grid layers. The acquired metadata is used to determine virtual coordinates for the mapping. The user may then extract content artifacts attached to the determined virtual coordinates from the graphical representation. The user may extract content artifacts associated with specific indexed keywords which are in turn mapped to the virtual coordinates.

The user may also organize the extracted content artifacts based on end user requirements. For example an editor may create a course pack on Thermodynamics by charting out a lesson plan and extracting course material covering Heat Laws of Thermodynamics Heat Mass Transfer Enthalpy and Entropy . A user may also upload or contribute content artifacts online. The uploaded or contributed content artifacts may be associated with a set of user specified content metadata. The user specified content metadata may be associated with a virtual coordinate on the multi dimensional virtual lattice.

The extraction of content artifacts from the graphical representation of the electronic content is applicable for various fields for example online educational content repositories demographic targeted online publications and data elements associated with metadata tags. The computer implemented method disclosed herein also enables batch uploads of content artifacts archival retrieval and downloads of the content artifacts from the online content. Dependents dependencies advanced topics and detailed topics related to a content artifact based on the search criteria may also be identified. For example given a chapter the user is allowed to associate and graphically represent the chapter appropriately within the multi dimensional virtual lattice. Given a topic the user can find all the relevant chapters associated with that topic. Given a chapter or a topic the computer implemented system disclosed herein correlates the related topics and chapters mapped within the multi dimensional virtual lattice and presents the correlation to the user.

The different grid layers enable the user to associate curriculum standards for example grade levels state standards national standards associations charter school syllabi etc. to a specific content artifact or a topic corresponding to the specific content artifact. The user may also tag keywords for example know understand learn practice experiment develop quiz to a collection of content artifacts based on pedagogical requirements. The user may rate review and recommend the content artifacts based on predefined content criteria. The predefined content criteria for the content artifacts are for example Popular Helpful Endorsed etc.

The foundation grid layer is generated for representing the content artifacts based on domains. The content artifacts based on domains are not influenced by qualifying factors for example demographical considerations geographical considerations etc. The foundation grid layer comprises a predefined taxonomy of content domains for example domains subjects topics sub topics benchmarks etc derived from the collection of electronic content. For example if a content artifact relating to algebra is mapped onto the foundation grid layer the mapping is performed without taking into consideration location of the user complexity of the retrieved electronic content or compliance of the retrieved content to standards.

In an embodiment the domains are determined and or scoped based on search criteria provided by the user. A domain in the field of mathematics for example algebra is fragmented into topics and subtopics related to algebra on the foundation grid layer. The domain algebra is fragmented into topics for example quadratic equations and linear algebra and subtopics related to the topics respectively for example variables polynomials equations matrices etc. In another example a domain in the field of science for example Physics may be fragmented into topics and subtopics related to physics on the foundation grid layer. The domain Physics may be fragmented into topics for example Matter and Optics and subtopics related to the topics respectively for example Particles Matter Motion Newton s Laws Momentum Acceleration Force Gravitational Force and Reflection Refraction Dispersion Total Internal Reflection etc. In another example a domain in the field of science for example Chemistry may be fragmented into topics and subtopics related to chemistry on the foundation grid layer. The domain Chemistry may be fragmented into a topic for example Organic Chemistry and subtopics related to the topics respectively for example Carbon Atomic Structure Polymers Polyester etc.

The standards grid layer is overlaid on the foundation grid layer for logically representing the content artifacts based on a curriculum and state standards framework. The logical representation of the content artifacts comprises for example representation based on curricula location of the user and education level of the user. For example a content artifact may be represented as 9grade California 10grade National Council of Education Research and Training NCERT etc. The representation is performed based on user preferences. The overlaying of the standards grid layer on the foundation grid layer filters the domain specific content on the foundation grid layer to obtain a narrower set of content relevant to user preferences. The standards grid layer comprises a predefined set of regulations associated with the domains for example standards associated with geographical domains criteria rules guidelines curriculum etc. The standards grid layer is superimposed over the foundation grid layer to establish logical coordinates of a specific electronic content. For example the domain algebra is fragmented into topics for example matrices and regulations related to the topics for example 9grade CA 9grade NCERT 10grade IB . The regulations are based on educational curriculum geographical locations demography educational institutions organizations etc.

The pedagogical grid layer is overlaid on the standards grid layer and or the foundation grid layer for pedagogically representing the content artifacts. The pedagogical representation comprises representation based on pedagogical attributes for example complexity of the content artifact. The pedagogical representation may also be based on outcomes preferred by the user. As an example a user retrieves the electronic content based on learning criteria for example text based books video based learning objects flash based animation etc. In another example the user acquires the electronic content based on difficulty levels for example a beginner level an expert level and advanced topics . Alternatively the user retrieves electronic content based on both learning criteria and difficulty levels for example text based books at a beginner level expert topics on flash based animation etc. In another example the user associates different keywords for example know understand learn practice experiment develop and quiz to cluster the electronic content based on the outcomes preferred by the user. The pedagogical layer comprises a predefined set of pedagogical requirements and content attributes. The pedagogical layer is superimposed over the foundation grid layer the standards grid layer or both in order to associate the content criteria of the retrieved electronic content. For example problem sets X 8 0 X 729 0 is tagged with metadata easy and hard respectively on the pedagogical layer. The content criteria are based on pedagogical requirements and usage outcome requirements.

The parametric grid layer is overlaid on the pedagogical grid layer for parametrically representing the content artifacts based on user defined attributes and a set of ad hoc representation parameters. The ad hoc representation parameters comprise for example an online rating of the retrieved electronic content ownership of the electronic content popularity of the retrieved electronic content license types of the retrieved electronic content etc. The ad hoc representation parameters are provided by the user based on the user s preferences. For example the user may want to retrieve the most popular 6grade algebra content not requiring a digital rights management DRM license. The parametric grid layer comprises usage based metadata. The parametric grid layer takes into consideration relevance attributes of the electronic content. For example a domain algebra is fragmented into a topic matrices along with relevance attributes related to the topic for example matrices by Giancolli Popular matrices by Hewitt Popular in CA etc.

A user for example performs a flat search and acquires electronic content for example algebra chapters from multiple content sources. The content artifacts of the electronic content get attached to one or more nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice based on the metadata represented by the nodes.

Consider an example where another user wishes to acquire a seventh grade algebra chapter. The user provides search criteria for example algebra 7th grade etc. The metadata associated with the search criteria are acquired and the content artifacts attached to the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the acquired metadata of the search criteria are extracted and are rendered to the user.

Any number of grid layers may be overlaid on the multi dimensional virtual lattice. Each of the grid layers may provide different representations to associate and extract the acquired electronic content. Each grid layer may be user customizable. Furthermore each grid layer described above may be used in isolation or in any combination thereof. The overlaying process need not necessarily follow the order of overlaying described above.

The extracted metadata is validated using a predefined set of metadata in the metadata database . If the extracted metadata is not a part of the predefined set of metadata the metadata database is updated by adding the extracted metadata to the predefined set of metadata. The multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising four grid layers and is created. The nodes of the multi dimensional virtual lattice represent one or more of the extracted metadata.

Electronic content comprising content artifacts is acquired from multiple content sources. An artifact database is updated with the acquired content artifacts. The acquired electronic content is mapped on to the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the four grid layers and and the content artifacts associated with the acquired electronic content get attached to one or more nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice . The contents artifacts are uniquely identified using multiple identifiers assigned by the artifact database . The associations between the identified content artifacts are also represented graphically within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the acquired metadata.

A second user provides search criteria. The metadata associated with the search criteria is acquired and the content artifacts attached to the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the acquired metadata of the search criteria are extracted and are rendered to the second user.

The user creates a multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising a topics layer a demographics layer a format layer a parametric grid layer and a targeted advertisement layer. The topics layer the demographics layer the format layer the parametric grid layer and the targeted advertisement layer are generated based on the user defined content criteria. The nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice represent the metadata extracted from the user defined content criteria.

The topics layer represents the content artifacts based on subjects for example business science entertainment sports etc. The demographics layer is overlaid on to the topics layer for logically representing the content artifacts based on demographic factors. The demographic factors comprise geographic constraints for example USA Europe Asia etc. The geographic constraints may also pertain to states for example New York California Nevada etc. The demographic factors may also comprise companies for example Google Dell IBM etc.

The format layer is overlaid on to the demographics layer for representing the content artifacts based on formats. The formats comprise for example news columns news articles blogs etc. The parametric grid layer is overlaid on to the format layer for parametrically representing the content artifacts based on user defined attributes and the set of ad hoc representation parameters. The ad hoc representation parameters comprise for example free paid subscription basis on demand etc. A targeted advertisement layer is overlaid on the format layer for representing content artifacts with associated advertisements.

Electronic content is acquired from multiple content sources and is represented graphically on the multi dimensional virtual lattice using the topics layer the demographics layer the format layer the parametric grid layer and the targeted advertisement layer. The electronic content is graphically represented on to the multi dimensional virtual lattice as follows Subject specific content from the acquired electronic content is mapped using the topics layer. Demography specific content from the acquired electronic content is mapped using the demographics layer. The acquired electronic content based on format attributes is mapped using the format layer. The electronic content acquired based on content attributes is then mapped using the parametric grid layer. The acquired electronic content with associated advertisements is then mapped using the targeted advertisement layer.

The content artifacts of the acquired electronic content attach to one or more nodes of the multi dimensional virtual lattice . The content artifacts are uniquely identified using multiple identifiers assigned by the artifact database and associated within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice . The associations between the content artifacts are also represented within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the acquired metadata. The user provides search criteria. The search criteria comprise keywords. The content artifacts associated with nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the keywords in the search criteria are extracted from the multi dimensional virtual lattice and rendered to the user. The user can therefore generate a custom magazine with specified criteria for example Articles and Blogs that cover Economic News from Europe and North America and that are for free as well as from subscribed sources . The free sources will embed targeted advertisements that are related to blogs and articles by the metadata keywords declared by the advertisers as part of the association process. The user can also create a weekly magazine tailored to specific interests by specifying for example Create October 19th Weekly include Business News by Business Week covering Apple Inc as well as Asia Markets include Technology News by TechCrunch covering Apple Inc Google as well as iPhones Android Phones .

The user creates a multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising a genre layer a demographics layer a chronological layer and a parametric grid layer. The nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice represent the extracted metadata from the user defined content criteria. The genre layer represents acquired movies based on categorized genres for example romance comedy drama action thriller documentary etc.

The demographics layer is overlaid on the genre layer for representing acquired movies based on geographical constraints for example languages and geographical regions. The languages are for example English Spanish French etc. The geographical region constraints are for example Hollywood etc.

The chronological layer is overlaid on the demographics layer for representing acquired movies based on various time intervals for example classics oldies 80 s 90 s new releases etc. The parametric grid layer is overlaid on the chronological layer for representing acquired movies based on user evaluation attributes for example high rated movies low rated movies movies recommended through friend s network movies rated by Motion Pictures Association of America MPAA etc.

Movies are acquired from multiple content sources and are represented graphically on the multi dimensional virtual lattice using the genre layer the demographics layer the chronological layer and the parametric grid layer. The electronic content is graphically represented on to the multi dimensional virtual lattice as follows Genre specific content from the acquired electronic content is mapped using the genre layer. Demography specific content from the acquired electronic content is mapped using the demographics layer. The acquired electronic content is then mapped in accordance with their chronology using the chronological layer. The acquired electronic content is then mapped based on content attributes using the parametric grid layer.

The content artifacts of the movies for example movie soundtracks movie synopses etc. attach to one or more nodes of the multi dimensional virtual lattice . The content artifacts are uniquely identified using multiple identifiers assigned by the artifact database and associated within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice . The associations between the content artifacts are also represented within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the acquired metadata.

A user searching for movies provides search criteria comprising keywords. The content artifacts associated with nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice whose metadata matches with the keywords in the search criteria are extracted and rendered to the user. The user can get movie recommendations for specified criteria for example newly released independent comedy movies rated for general audiences G .

A user provides user defined content criteria via the GUI . The GUI enables the user to interactively control the association and the extraction of content artifacts. The search criteria the metadata and the predefined content criteria are acquired via the GUI . The GUI provides the user with interactive interface controls. For example the interactive interface controls comprises drag and drop controls for correlating search results placed on the multi dimensional virtual lattice based on the search criteria. The search criteria are specified using a search panel provided on the GUI . Sliding visual controls may also be provided on the GUI to scale manipulate and scroll horizontal and vertical dimensions of the graphical representation of electronic content. Radio buttons and check boxes may also be provided on the GUI to select each of the horizontal grids or select multiple views of the graphical representation.

The grid layer generation engine generates one or more grid layers based on the predefined content criteria. In an embodiment the grid layer generation engine performs the steps of generating a foundation grid layer for representing the content artifacts based on domains overlaying a standards grid layer on the foundation grid layer for logically representing the content artifacts based a curriculum and state standards framework overlaying a pedagogical grid layer on the standards grid layer and or the foundation grid layer for pedagogically representing the content artifacts and overlaying a parametric grid layer on the pedagogical grid layer for parametrically representing the content artifacts based on user defined attributes and a set of ad hoc representation parameters. The grid layer generation engine also generates for example a topics layer a demographics layer a format layer a parametric grid layer and a targeted advertisement layer in a magazine publication platform as disclosed in the detailed description of . The grid layer generation engine also generates for example a genre layer a demographics layer a chronological layer and a parametric grid layer in a movie recommendation platform as disclosed in the detailed description of .

The predefined content criteria comprise metadata. The metadata acquisition module acquires implicit metadata and explicit metadata from the predefined content criteria the search criteria and the electronic content. The validation module validates the acquired metadata using a predefined set of metadata stored in the metadata database . If the acquired metadata is not present in the metadata database the validation module updates the metadata database with the acquired metadata.

The lattice creation module creates a multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising the generated grid layers. The nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice represent the metadata acquired from the predefined content criteria. The multi dimensional virtual lattice is created maintained and accessed within the random access memory such that the nodes can be built and rebuilt periodically.

The content retrieval module acquires the electronic content from multiple content sources via a network . The network is for example a WiFi communication network a general packet radio service GPRS network a mobile telecommunication network a local area communication network an internet connection network a Bluetooth communication network an infra red communication network etc. The acquired electronic content comprises the content artifacts. The content retrieval module may utilize a combination of hierarchical flat and parametric search strategies for retrieving the electronic content from internally specified content sources by performing a local search or from externally referred content sources by performing a federated search. The retrieved electronic content comprises metadata.

The graphical representation creation module graphically represents the acquired electronic content within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the generated grid layers. The artifact association module attaches each of the content artifacts from the acquired electronic content to one or more nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice . The artifact association module attaches each of the content artifacts from the acquired electronic content to one or more nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice based on explicit definition provided by the user or by matching metadata acquired by the metadata acquisition module from the metadata database .

The identification engine uniquely identifies the content artifacts attached to the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using multiple identifiers assigned by the artifact database . The artifact association module represents associations between the identified content artifacts within the graphical representation of the electronic content using the acquired metadata. The associations between the identified content artifacts may also be represented based on application programming interfaces APIs . The artifact extraction module extracts the identified content artifacts attached to the nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice with the associations from the graphical representation of the electronic content based on the criteria specified by the user .

The processor is an electronic circuit that can execute computer programs. The memory unit is used for storing programs and applications. The memory unit is for example a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by the processor . The memory unit also stores temporary variables and other intermediate information used during execution of the instructions by the processor . The computer system further comprises a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processor . The network interface enables connection of the computer system to a network . The network is for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cellular network a satellite network etc. In case of a mobile computing device the network interface connects the computing device wirelessly to the network . The mobile computing device further comprises a baseband processor for processing communication functions and managing communication transactions with the network . The I O controller controls the input and output actions performed by the user . The network bus permits communication between the modules for example and of the computer implemented system disclosed herein.

The display unit displays computed results to the user . The input devices are used for inputting data into the computer system . The input devices are for example a keyboard such as an alphanumeric keyboard a joystick a mouse a touch pad a light pen etc. The computer system further comprises a fixed media drive and a removable media drive for receiving removable media.

Computer applications and programs are used for operating the computer system . The programs are loaded onto the fixed media drive and into the memory unit of the computer system via the removable media drive . In an embodiment the computer applications and programs may be loaded directly through the network . Computer applications and programs are executed by double clicking a related icon displayed on the display unit using one of the input devices . The user interacts with the computer system using the graphical user interface GUI provided on the display unit .

The computer system of the user employs operating systems for performing multiple tasks. An operating system is responsible for the management and coordination of activities and the sharing of the resources of the computer system . The operating system further manages security of the computer system peripheral devices connected to the computer system and network connections. The operating system employed on the computer system recognizes for example inputs provided by the user using one of the input devices manages the output display files and directories stored locally on the fixed media drive etc. The operating system on the computer system of the user executes different programs initiated by the user using the processor . Instructions for executing the computer implemented method and system disclosed herein are retrieved by the processor from the program memory in the form of signals. Location of the instructions in the program memory is determined by a program counter PC . The program counter stores a number that identifies the current position in the program of the computer implemented method disclosed herein.

The instructions fetched by the processor from the program memory after being processed are decoded. After processing and decoding the processor executes the instructions. For example the grid layer generation engine defines instructions for generating one or more grid layers the metadata acquisition module defines instructions for extracting metadata from predefined content criteria the validation module defines instructions for validating the acquired metadata using a predefined set of metadata stored in the metadata database the lattice creation module defines instructions for creating a multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising the generated grid layers the content retrieval module defines instructions for retrieving electronic content from multiple content sources the graphical representation creation module defines instructions for graphically representing the retrieved electronic content within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice the artifact association module defines instructions for attaching each of the content artifacts from the acquired electronic content to one or more nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice the identification engine defines instructions for uniquely identifying each of the content artifacts using unique identifiers assigned by the artifact database the artifact association module defines instructions for graphically representing associations between each of the identified content artifacts within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice using the acquired metadata the artifact extraction module defines instructions for extracting content artifacts from the multi dimensional virtual lattice etc. The defined instructions are stored in the program memory.

The processor retrieves the instructions defined by the grid layer generation engine the metadata acquisition module the validation module the lattice creation module the content retrieval module the graphical representation creation module the artifact association module the metadata database the identification engine and the artifact extraction module and executes the instructions.

Consider an example where a user wishes to extract electronic content pertaining to for example a branch of science physics. The user provides user defined content criteria for example domain criteria standards criteria pedagogic criteria parametric criteria etc. using the GUI . A multi dimensional virtual lattice comprising the foundation grid layer the standards grid layer the pedagogical layer and the parametric grid layer are generated as disclosed in the detailed description of . The nodes of the created multi dimensional virtual lattice represent metadata acquired from the predefined content criteria.

Electronic content comprising content artifacts for example multiple physics chapters are acquired from multiple content sources via the network . The acquired electronic content is mapped within the created multi dimensional virtual lattice and the content artifacts attach to one or more nodes of the multi dimensional virtual lattice .

Each content artifact may have an unbounded number of content metadata associated with the content artifact. For example a chapter on Light may have for example Physics High School HS and California 9grade CA 9 etc. as content metadata associated with the chapter. Virtual coordinates may be determined from any two or more of the content metadata.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented in a computer readable medium appropriately programmed for general purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor for example one or more microprocessors will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media for example computer readable media in a number of manners. In one embodiment hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. A processor means any one or more microprocessors central processing unit CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices. The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing data for example instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a random access memory RAM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read. In general the computer readable programs may be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of languages that can be used include C C C Python or JAVA. The software programs may be stored on or in one or more mediums as an object code. A computer program product comprising computer executable instructions embodied in a computer readable medium comprises computer parsable codes for the implementation of the processes of various embodiments.

Where databases are described such as the metadata database and the artifact database it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described is readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases is readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements is employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as the described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication via a communications network with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or Ethernet Token Ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Each of the devices may comprise computers such as those based on the Intel processors AMD processors Sun processors IBM processors etc. that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of machines is in communication with the computer.

The foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

