---

title: Electronic purchase transaction trust infrastructure
abstract: A mobile phone comprising a processor, a non-transitory memory, and an application stored in the non-transitory memory. When executed by the processor, the application receives an indicia of a product provided by a peripheral device of the mobile phone, identifies a product based on the indicia, analyzes options for paying electronically for the product, and presents a proposal for paying electronically for the product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862181&OS=08862181&RS=08862181
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08862181
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120529
---
Mobile communication devices are becoming increasingly common and increasingly powerful. Mobile phones may comprise several peripherals such as cameras and near field communication NFC radio transceivers. Some manufacturers and or food producing enterprises offer price discounts on purchases of related items. For example a price discount may be offered to purchase both hot dogs and a preferred brand of hot dog buns to incent a shopper to purchase the preferred brand of hot dog buns. Some manufacturers and or food producing enterprises may offer price discounts to use specific payment accounts for example a specific credit card account.

In an embodiment a mobile phone comprising a processor a non transitory memory and an application stored in the non transitory memory is disclosed. When executed by the processor the application receives an indicia of a product provided by a peripheral device of the mobile phone identifies a product based on the indicia analyzes options for paying electronically for the product and presents a proposal for paying electronically for the product.

In an embodiment a method of completing a payment transaction is disclosed. The method comprises scanning by a mobile phone indicia of a plurality of products identifying the products based on the indicia analyzing payment rules to determine a proposal for paying electronically for the products where a plurality of payment accounts are used for paying and transmitting at least two payment transaction messages to two payment accounts via a cellular radio transceiver of the mobile phone to complete payment for the products wherein each of the at least two payment transaction messages identifies a payment account.

In an embodiment a method of completing a payment transaction is disclosed. The method comprises scanning by a mobile phone indicia of a plurality of products accumulating information about the products in a trusted security zone of the mobile phone and transmitting the accumulated information about the products from the trusted security zone of the mobile phone via a trusted communication infrastructure to a server computer in a wireless service provider network where the server computer comprises a trusted security zone. The method further comprises validating the accumulated information about the products by the server computer completing at least one payment transaction based on the accumulated information about the products by the server computer and transmitting a message to an enterprise in which the products are being sold of the completion about the at least one payment transaction.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

In an embodiment systems and methods for completing electronic payments for products in retail stores are disclosed. A user scans product identifiers using a mobile access terminal as he or she places the product item in their shopping cart. For example the mobile access terminal may take a picture of a bar code on the product item and the mobile access terminal analyzes the bar code to identify the subject product item. The mobile access terminal may store a map that translates the bar code to product information and or product identity. Alternatively the mobile access terminal may request the product information and or product identity in an information request message that includes the bar code and transmit the message to a server computer via a wireless communication link. The server computer may analyze the bar code to identify the subject product item translate the bar code to product information and or product identity and transmit the subject information and or identity back to the mobile access terminal. Alternatively the mobile access terminal may read a radio frequency identity RFID tag coupled to the product item and in like manner obtain associated product information and or product identity.

As the user continues shopping scanning items and adding product items to their shopping cart analysis may be performed by the mobile access terminal and or by the server computer to determine preferred payment strategies and or to recommend associated product purchases. The mobile access terminal may present on a display one or more payment options for a product and provide a means for example a control button or a dialog box to select one of the payment options or override a payment option selected automatically based on pre configured and or pre defined payment rules. The analysis may suggest as an aid to the shopper that having scanned hot dogs they may wish to purchase hot dog buns. The analysis may determine that a price discount is available for purchasing a preferred brand of hot dog buns in combination with the scanned hot dogs for example as part of a marketing effort to introduce a new brand of hot dog buns. The mobile access terminal may present a notification on a screen that advises a user of the discount that is available. This may allow the user to take advantage of a discount that he or she otherwise may have been unaware of.

When the shopping is completed for example when the user indicates the shopping cart is ready for checkout the mobile access terminal may complete payment for the product items electronically via a wireless communication link. The mobile access terminal may pay for different product items from different payment accounts to benefit from discounts offered in association with different products. The mobile access terminal may pay for different product items based on electronic coupons that have been accumulated in the mobile access terminal or in a network based storage area associated with the user of the mobile access terminal. In an embodiment by using the mobile access terminal to complete payment for the products the user may be able to skip the delay of passing through a checkout line and or checkout process.

In an embodiment the mobile access terminal has a trusted security zone that promotes the shopping paradigm described above. For example electronic coupons and or payment account information may be stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile access terminal. The mobile access terminal trusted security zone may take control and establish a trusted communication link to a cellular base transceiver station BTS and to a trusted security zone on a server computer in the network of a wireless service provider that operates the base transceiver station.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment.

A complete Trusted Execution Environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The Trusted Execution Environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the Trusted Execution Environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a Trusted Execution Environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The Trusted Execution Environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the Trusted Execution Environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the Trusted Execution Environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to and a system is described in an embodiment the system comprises a mobile access terminal MAT a base transceiver station a network and a server computer . In an embodiment the MAT may be used to scan products reading a bar code and or a radio frequency identity RFID tag . The MAT may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or some other portable communication device. The MAT may use product information that it determines based on the scanning the products for example product identity product pricing information and other information to determine a payment strategy. The MAT may determine which of a plurality of payment accounts may be used to pay for the products . When payment from the payment accounts for the purchased products has been completed either the MAT or the server computer may inform the enterprise that retails the products . The enterprise may use the information to track product inventory as well as thwart theft of products . In an embodiment the system may comprise a point of sale POS terminal . It will be appreciated that a variety of different embodiments of the system are contemplated by the present disclosure.

The network may comprise any combination of public and private communication networks. The server computer the enterprise and the point of sale terminal may be implemented as computer systems. It is understood that the enterprise may comprise business offices warehouses retail outlets and the like but the abstraction of the enterprise represented in may focus on a sales and product inventory management information system. Computer systems are described further hereinafter.

In an embodiment the MAT may comprise a processor a memory a camera a near field communication NFC radio transceiver and a cellular communication radio transceiver . The near field communication transceiver may be used to establish a radio communication link over a short distance for example a radio link with the point of sale terminal and or with the RFID tag . As used herein the short distance over which the near field communication transceiver may communicate may be limited to less than about 36 inches. Alternatively the short distance over which the near field communication transceiver may communicate may be limited to less than about 10 inches.

By contrast the cellular transceiver may be used to establish a radio communication link with the base transceiver station over a relatively long distance for example a distance greater than thirty feet. Under some wireless communication conditions the cellular transceiver may establish a radio communication link with the base transceiver station over a distance of about one mile over a distance of about three miles over a distance of about five miles or over yet greater distances. In an embodiment the base transceiver station may communication with the cellular transceiver using one of a code division multiple access CDMA protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM protocol a long term evolution LTE protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX protocol or other cellular wireless communication protocol. In an embodiment the base transceiver station may comprise a femtocell or a small cellular base transceiver station suitable for use in building interiors where coverage from traditional macro cell base transceiver stations may be poor.

In an embodiment the processor may be partitioned into a normal partition and a trusted security zone . Trusted security zones are described generally above. An application may be stored in the memory and executed by the processor . Some parts of the application may execute in the trusted security zone and some parts of the application may execute in the normal partition . The application may process indicia associated with the product read by the MAT for example indicia received by the NFC transceiver communicating with the RFID tag and or by stored by the camera capturing a digital image of the bar code . While the bar code is illustrated in as a traditional one dimensional bar code it is understood that the application may process two dimensional bar codes and other types of non traditional bar codes. The application may identify a product based on processing the indicia. In some contexts the term indicia may refer to the information read by or captured by the NFC transceiver and or the camera . In other contexts the term indicia may refer to the bar code and or the RFID tag .

The application may look up the product identity and associated pricing and payment information using the processed indicia for example in a data table stored in the memory . The application may download a product table from the enterprise while in a retail store. Alternatively the application may send a request for product identity and associated pricing and payment information to the server where the request contains the processed indicia for example a universal product code UPC or other identifier. In this case the server may maintain a product table and determine a product identity by indexing into the product table using the processed indicia provided by the application . The server may return the requested product identity and associated pricing and payment information to the application .

As a user proceeds through a retail store selecting product items to place in his or her shopping basket or shopping cart the MAT may scan the indicia associated with the product item . The application may obtain product price and payment information as described above. The product price and payment information may include a price of the item and or a quantity discount price for buying a specific number of the same product items for example a discount price for buying two boxes of saltine crackers. The product price and payment information may include a coupon for another product that will be valid upon purchase of the subject product item . The product price and payment information may include information about a discounted price for a related product. For example if the product item is a package of hot dogs the product price and payment information may include information about a 20 discount for a preferred brand of hot dog buns. The product price and payment information may include information about different prices for the product item for use of different payment accounts . For example the price of a soft drink may be less when purchased using a first payment account than when purchased using a second payment account based on a marketing collaboration between a food product distributor and a financial institution or for some other reason.

The application processes the product price and payment information and accumulates the information for example in the trusted security zone or in the memory . As the user s shopping activity continues for example as the user rolls their cart through a store or walks through the store carrying their basket looking at products consulting a shopping list the application may process the accumulated product price and payment information to identify preferred payment strategies. The application may present the payment strategies on a display of the mobile access terminal along with other related information such as running total projected tax total etc. The application may present an input control for example a soft button or a dialog box for the user to override the suggested payment strategy. When the user overrides and selects a different payment vehicle than the one recommended the application may change the suggested payment vehicle for the subject product item to the commanded payment vehicle and discontinue evaluating payment strategies for the subject product item for the duration of the shopping session. Alternatively the application may continue evaluating payment strategies for the subject product item and provide information to the user about cost differences between a recommended payment strategy and a commanded payment strategy for the one or more product items where the user overrode the originally suggested payment strategy.

The application may perform the analysis of alternative payment strategies based on rules stored in the memory that may be predefined or configured by the user. For example the user may define rules that provide that a category of product items shall be paid for from a specific payment account . For example the user may define that food items be paid for out of a debit card account while cosmetics may be paid for out of a specific credit card account. For example the user may define that a credit card that accumulates incentives for use of the card may be used by preference to other credit cards that do not accumulate incentives for use. For example the user may define that a product item that costs less when paid for with a first payment vehicle than it costs when paid for with a second payment vehicle shall be paid for with the first payment vehicle.

In an embodiment the application may promote analysis of alternative payment strategies based on a hierarchy or precedence of rules. For example if a first rule applies the payment strategy to be suggested by the application may be determined by the first rule without consulting other rules. When the first rule does not apply the payment strategy to be suggested by the application may be determined by the second rule without consulting other rules. For example a first rule may be determined to apply but a plurality of payment vehicles may be consistent with the first rule and in this case a second rule that is consistent with the first rule may be used to select one payment vehicle out of the plurality of payment vehicles to determine a suggested payment strategy.

Exception conditions to the rules may be defined. For example if a funds balance of a debit card has dipped below a predefined threshold limit the application may provisionally associate payment of a food item to a credit card. Likewise if a price discount for a product item is associated with a credit card account that does not accumulate incentives the application may provisionally associate payment of the product item with the non incentive accumulating credit card account in order to obtain the price discount. It is understood that the above are a few examples and payment rules may take other forms.

When the application identifies pricing discounts a message may be presented on a display of the MAT to notify the user. For example when adding hot dogs to the cart upon scanning the indicia associated with the product item the application may determine that a 20 discount is offered for purchase of a preferred brand of hot dog buns. This information may be presented on the display of the MAT to inform the user. Likewise if the application determines that a quantity discount is available for the product item this information may be presented on the display of the MAT . In an embodiment as information about product items in the shopping cart or shopping basket are accumulated a running total of purchase price and or taxes may be presented on the display of the MAT . In an embodiment information about suggested distribution of the costs among the payment accounts and or funds balances of the payment accounts may be presented on the display of the MAT .

While the functionality of accumulating product price and payment information to evaluate alternative payment strategies of presenting discount information on the display of the device of presenting information about total purchase price and taxes and of other information on the display of the device and of actual payment completion has been described above as being processed by the application executing unassisted on the MAT in an embodiment some of this processing may be provided by a server application executing on the server . For example the server computer may comprise a trusted security zone in conformance with the general description of the trusted security zone discussed above. Some or all of the server application may execute in the trusted security zone . The server application may process the product price and payment information based on user defined rules stored in a data store associated with the server to determine recommended and or proposed payment strategies. The server may transmit the recommended and or proposed payment strategies to the MAT for presentation to the user on the display of the MAT .

Turning now to and a method is described. In an embodiment the method may be practiced by the MAT alone or in combination with the server . At block an indicia of a product item is scanned by the mobile access terminal . The processing of block may be limited to receiving a radio signal from the RFID tag or capturing a digital image of the bar code . Alternatively the processing of block may further comprise performing analysis of the indicia to determine some encoded information for example a universal product code UPC encoded by the bar code or an identity encoded in the radio signal emitted by the RFID tag . The processing of block may further comprise retrieving product pricing and payment information associated with the indicia for example by using the indicia to search in a map or data table. In an embodiment the processing of block may be performed at about the time a product item is placed in a shopping cart.

At block payment rules are analyzed for example payment rules are evaluated to determine a payment strategy for the product item scanned in block . In an embodiment the processing of block may further comprise reevaluating the payment rules to determine a payment strategy for not only the product item scanned in block but for a plurality of product items that have been accumulated in a shopping basket and or a shopping cart. For example sometimes the payment strategy provisionally arrived at for product items previously scanned and added to the shopping cart may be less optimal in the context of a product item later scanned and added to the shopping cart.

At block if a product discount is available for a related product the processing proceeds to block where a notice about the product discount is presented on the display of the MAT . In an embodiment at block if a quantity discount is available for the product item scanned in block the processing may proceed to block and a notice about the quantity discount for the subject product item is presented on a display of the MAT . The processing proceeds to block .

At block if shopping is not complete the processing returns to block . It is understood that the processing may wait at block for an event for example a user triggering a scanning operation. By repeatedly looping through blocks the method supports accumulating a plurality of product items in a shopping basket and updating analysis of different payment strategies.

At block payment rules may be analyzed again to determine a payment proposal for paying electronically for the products where a plurality of payment accounts are available for paying. In an embodiment the processing of block may be substantially similar to the processing of block . At block at least one payment proposal is presented for example on a display of the MAT . A plurality of payment proposals may be presented along with supporting information to promote a user selecting from among the payment strategy alternatives. In an embodiment the method may further comprise maintaining and analyzing a history of a user selection of a payment strategy to determine new payment rules in a learning mode of operation. In an embodiment the MAT may present an input control for overriding a suggested payment strategy as described above with reference to and .

In an embodiment the processing of block may occur before block . In this case the analysis of product items to determine payment proposals may be on going repeating the analysis each time a new product item is placed in a shopping cart. This repeating analysis may result in changing the payment strategy for product items previously scanned at block due to marketing collaborations or related product discounts. By repeating the analysis the user of the MAT may be provided more accurate in progress shopping cost information. Additionally this may promote more rapid check out at the point of sale terminal as less analysis may need to be performed.

At block at least one payment transaction message is transmitted via the cellular transceiver of the MAT to complete payment for the product items wherein the at least one payment transaction message identifies a payment account. In an embodiment the method further comprises sending a payment confirmation message to the enterprise informing them that the purchase items have been paid for or are committed for payment settlement at a predefined standard settlement time. The enterprise may send notification to a retail store that a given user and or shopping basket is paid for and allow the user to leave the store and load the product items into their vehicle to take home. Alternatively the notification may be sent from the enterprise to the point of sale terminal indicating that payment is complete perhaps triggering the point of sale terminal to print out a receipt for the payment itemized by the product items . The use of method may promote convenience of the user as well as reduce costs to the enterprise of staffing point of sale terminals . The method may promote improved marketing as price discounts for related products and quantity price discounts which may be marketing incentives intended to direct buying behavior may be more surely brought to the attention of the user and hence have a better prospect for affecting buying behavior.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a plurality of product items are scanned by the MAT . At block information about the product items is accumulated in the trusted security zone of the MAT . The information may comprise one or more of an identity of the product item a price of the product item or a payment information related to the product item . Payment information related to the product item may comprise information about related products that may receive a price discount when purchased at the same time as the subject product item information about quantity discounts and or other product information.

At block the accumulated information about the products is transmitted from the trusted security zone of the MAT via a trusted communication infrastructure to the server where the server is located in a wireless service provider network and the server comprises the trusted security zone . In an embodiment the trusted communication infrastructure may be constituted by passing through a plurality of network nodes each having a trusted security zone such that the information is only accessed by instructions executing in the trusted security zone of the subject network nodes. In another embodiment however the trusted security infrastructure may be provided in a different way. In an embodiment the base transceiver station may not comprise a trusted security zone and it may be assumed that the base transceiver station is inherently secure from hacking and safe from a security breach.

At block the accumulated information is validated by the server . At block at least one payment transaction is completed by the server based on the accumulated information about the product items. At block a message is transmitted to the enterprise associated with the product items wherein the message indicates the completion of the payment transaction or transactions.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

