---

title: Managing personal privacy settings
abstract: Various systems and methods for managing user information on mobile devices are described herein. A selection of user information is received from a user operating a user device. A privacy setting for the selection of user information is received from the user, the privacy setting to permit or deny access to the user information to a third-party application. The selection of user information and the privacy setting is transmitted from the user device to a receiving device, where the receiving device is configured to enforce the privacy setting for the third-party application executing on the receiving device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092642&OS=09092642&RS=09092642
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09092642
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
As an increasing number of people use online services to share content and connect to other people people are consequently exposing an increasing amount of personal information. Thus there is a need for a system that provides data privacy for personal information.

The present disclosure provides techniques and configurations used for managing personal data among personal contacts. The management system disclosed herein provides security enhancements to ensure data privacy. A person may desire to share personal social professional or other information with another person e.g. contact . Sharing of such information is commonly performed electronically. For example the person may provide an electronic business card profile or other contact information to the recipient. However once a person shares such information the information is largely unsecured on the recipient s electronic device. Applications programs or processes on the recipient s device may access the shared information and alter it disseminate it or otherwise use it in a way that the sharing person may not like. An option of not sharing information while available is not desirable because it inhibits social networking business arrangements and other aspects. Thus there is a need to provide a system that allows a user to share information in a secure manner.

Using the embodiments described herein a user may indicate information to share with another person e.g. another user . A user may access such information on a mobile device or at an installed relatively stationary device. Mobile devices may include devices such as mobile phones smartphones tablet computers laptop computers personal digital assistants and the like. Installed devices may include devices such as kiosks and information centers. Some devices such as a vehicle navigation system may be considered an installed mobile device. Any such device used to transmit receive store or otherwise manipulate user information is considered a user device for the purposes of this disclosure.

As used herein user information includes information that describes a user s characteristics e.g. age gender height etc. personal information e.g. birth place siblings parents home address etc. profession e.g. job title location email address phone number work history etc. activities e.g. recreational sports leisure activities etc. or interests e.g. religion travel food charity shopping literature etc. . It is understood that this list of categories of user information is not meant to be exhaustive and that other forms of user information are encompassed in this disclosure. Furthermore the organization of user information may be altered based on preference design or other considerations.

User information may be organized into an information profile. As used herein an information profile is a collection of user information organized by a common attribute of the user information. Examples of information profiles include but are not limited to a personal profile a professional profile and a social profile. The personal profile may include information that is generally private or closely held information. A user may be highly selective of whom with to share information contained within a personal profile. The professional profile may include information related to the user s profession such as a work email and phone number. The social profile may include information related to the user s social life such as interests and hobbies.

Information profiles may be based on individual data or on other profiles or on a combination of individual data and another profile. For example a profile for close friends may include some or all of the information from a personal profile and a social profile. In addition the profile for close friends may include some information not found in the combination of the personal and social profiles.

For each datum of information in an information profile a user may designate a privacy setting. The privacy setting is used to permit or deny access to the datum of user information at another device e.g. the receiving device . The privacy setting may be used at the receiving device to control access of third party applications. Thus while a receiving application at the receiving device such as a contact list or address book application may access the datum of user information third party applications or other foreign applications are either permitted or denied access based on the privacy setting. In the following disclosure the privacy setting has one of two states public or private where a public setting allows third party applications to access the shared user data and where a private setting denies access to third party applications to the data. It is understood that additional or alternative privacy settings may be used in order to achieve alternative embodiments.

In an embodiment the privacy setting is per datum and is used for the respective datum wherever the datum is represented. For example the user s home phone number may be marked as private. In this case the home phone number is not shared with third party applications regardless of what information profile is used to share the datum home phone number or whom the datum is initially shared with.

Turning to the figures is a schematic diagram illustrating a system for sharing and managing personal information according to an example embodiment. includes mobile devices A B and C a client terminal a provider system interconnected via a network .

The mobile device includes devices such as a smartphone cellular telephone mobile phone laptop computer tablet computer or other portable networked device. In general the mobile device is small and light enough to be considered portable and includes a mechanism to connect to a network either over a persistent or intermittent connection.

The client terminal may be equipped similar to the mobile device in that it includes network capabilities and a user interface to receive information from a user and provide information to a user. Examples of client terminals include but are not limited to information kiosks automotive navigation systems desktop computers and thin clients. It is understood that either the mobile device or the client terminal may be considered a user device for the purposes of this discussion.

The provider system may be configured to receive user information from one mobile device e.g. mobile device A store the user information and then transmit the user information to another mobile device e.g. mobile device B . User information may be managed at a client terminal and either transmitted or received at such a terminal by way of the provider system .

The provider system may communicate with internal databases or file servers to publish or serve files via a web server. The provider system may include a web server. The web server may consist of scripts applications or library files that provide primary or auxiliary functionality to the web server e.g. multimedia file transfer or dynamic interface functions . The web server either alone or in conjunction with one or more other computers in the provider system may provide a user interface. The user interface may be implemented using a variety of programming languages or programming methods such as HTML HyperText Markup Language VBScript Visual Basic Scripting Edition JavaScript XML Extensible Markup Language XSLT Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Java JFC Java Foundation Classes and Swing an Application Programming Interface for Java 

The provider system may represent a group of two or more servers cooperating with each other provided by way of a pooled distributed or redundant computing model. Further the provider system may be implemented as a distributed system for example one or more elements of the provider system may be located across a wide area network from other elements of the provider system .

Continuing with discussion of the network may include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN wireless networks e.g. 802.11 or cellular network the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network ad hoc networks personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. The network may include a single local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or combinations of LANs or WANs such as the Internet. The various devices coupled to the network may be coupled to the network via one or more wired or wireless connections.

Using the mobile device or client terminal a user may manage user information. In an embodiment a user may organize user information into one or more information profiles with each datum of information having an associated privacy setting. The information profile or profiles may be named for convenience. After creating such profiles the user may then associate one or more contacts with a profile. A contact is understood to encompass a person or persons that the user is acquainted with. A contact may include but is not limited to a family member a business acquaintance a corporation or business a colleague a girlfriend or boyfriend or a social acquaintance. Once associated the contact is sent the user information in the information profile with the corresponding privacy settings for the data in the profile. Information profiles are used to organize information for the sharing user but may not be represented to the receiving user. Instead the receiving user may simply receive certain information that was shared but may not have visibility into the information profile under which it was shared. The information profile structure is largely irrelevant to the receiving user.

In an embodiment the profile information is sent by way of the provider system . In an embodiment the provider system receives the profile information from the user at a user device e.g. mobile device A and then transmits a push notification to the intended recipient device e.g. mobile device B . The push notification is used to indicate that new or updated information is available for download to the recipient device e.g. mobile device B . After a push notification is received at the recipient device a user at the recipient device may be notified of the new or updated user information available after which the user at the recipient device may then transmit a request to download the user information and corresponding privacy setting to the recipient device.

Once downloaded to the recipient device the profile information is stored. In an embodiment the profile information is stored in a contact directory such as an address book software application residing on the recipient device. Additionally the privacy settings are stored on the recipient device. The privacy settings may be stored in the contact directory or in an auxiliary storage location. An application that is later executed on the recipient device and requests access to the user information stored thereon will only be allowed access to information flagged public. Thus information marked as private will not be shared with applications on the recipient device.

Consider an example where a user named Fred is willing to share information with another user named Jane. Fred knows Jane from work and is willing to share professional contact information with her. Thus Fred may associate Jane with a professional information profile that includes some of his personal contact information e.g name and professional contact information e.g. work phone work email and work title . Fred may further have marked his name and work title as public and his work phone and work email as private. When Jane receives Fred s contact information Jane is able to view all of the shared information in her contact database software. Later when Jane installs a third party application on her mobile device the application may prompt Jane for consent to access her stored contact list. If Jane accepts and consents to the action Fred s contact information marked private is still concealed from the third party application.

When a user updates user information the updated information is transmitted to the provider system and a push message is then transmitted to each user device that has the outdated user information stored thereon. The update may be an update to the data e.g. a change in phone numbers or an update to a privacy setting e.g. toggling a setting from public to private . As in the situation when new information is disseminated a user at the recipient device may receive the push notification respond with a request to obtain the new or updated information and then receive the new or updated information and corresponding privacy settings at the recipient device.

Returning to the Fred and Jane example from above when Fred updates his work email address a notice is sent to Jane indicating the update to the data. Similarly if Fred were to toggle the privacy setting on the work phone number from private to public Jane would receive a notice. The notice may be a push notification.

Profile management may be performed in a semi automated fashion. In an embodiment profiles are dynamically defined based on a relationship level between two people. For example a relationship level may be enumerated from 1 to 10 with 1 being the closest relationships e.g immediate family and 10 being the remotest relationships e.g. friends of friends . Based on the relationship level a profile of user information may be generated. The profile may include personal professional health fitness hobby or other information about the user depending on the closeness of the relationship. For example where a user is a husband the wife may have nearly all user information about the husband shared to her device. Each piece of user information includes its own privacy setting thus controlling its exposure to other applications running on her device. As another example a person with a distant relationship to a third cousin may using a dynamic profile only make available a user s name and home phone number. In general dynamic profiles allow for more or less exposure of a user s information based on the strength of the relationship with the person with whom the information is being shared. Such dynamic profiles may be stored on the user s device and control which information is synched with other devices.

The communication module is used to receive from a publisher user user information and a corresponding privacy setting for the user information. The user information and privacy setting may be transmitted between the publisher user and the communication module using an encryption mechanism Examples of encryption mechanisms include but are not limited to public key infrastructure PKI mechanisms e.g. asymmetric cryptography private key mechanisms e.g. symmetric cryptography and hashing mechanisms e.g. Message Digest 5 MD5 and Secure Hashing Algorithm SHA . Other specific mechanisms include Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS and Pretty Good Privacy PGP . It is understood that other mechanism to encrypt or secure communications may be used.

The user database module is used to determine a subscriber user the subscriber user being a recipient of the user information and the corresponding privacy setting. In an embodiment the user database module accesses a user database to determine one or more users that are subscribers to the publisher user s information. The user database may be incorporated into the operations database . In order to determine the subscriber or subscribers the user database module may access a database table that contains relationships between the publisher user and one or more subscriber users. The user data module may then provide a list of one or more subscriber users to the push module in order to notify the subscriber users of the new or updated information from the publisher user.

The push module notifies the subscriber user of the user information. A push notification mechanism is in contrast to pull mechanisms. A push notification mechanism operates as a publish subscribe model. One or more users may subscribe to an information channel e.g. the publisher s user information feed and whenever new or updated content is available on the information channel the server e.g. the provider system will push either the information itself or a notification of the information out to the subscribers. Thus in an embodiment the push module notifies the subscriber user of the new or updated user information and waits until a request is received from a subscriber user before sending the user information and the corresponding privacy setting. In another embodiment the push module pushes the new or updated user information and the privacy setting to the subscriber device. The data push may be performed in the background in a manner that the subscriber user is unaware of the update. Optionally the data push may be performed in a manner that apprises the subscriber user of the operation such as by way of a notification window an informational dialog box a banner notification or some other user interface mechanism e.g. alert sounds vibration or the like .

The user information table includes a user s specific user information such as a home phone number a home mailing address a person email address a work phone number a work email address a date of birth food interests sports interests reading interests and the like. User information may be organized into one or more profiles as described above. The user information table may include a privacy setting flag on each record in the user information table indicating whether the information in the record is publically accessible by a third party application on a subscriber s device.

It is understood that the operations database illustrated in is merely one example and that optimizations may be used e.g. a higher degree of normalization which may result in more or fewer tables or information in tables in various embodiments. Additionally the operations database may be distributed across two or more servers.

In an embodiment the aspect of the user includes a personal life and the information profile includes personal information about the user. Personal information includes a home phone number a cellular phone number a home address a date of birth a social security number a driver s license number a health insurance provider a health insurance identification number a spouse name a spouse phone number emergency contact information marital status and the like.

In another embodiment the aspect of the user includes a professional life and the information profile includes professional information about the user. Professional information includes a work phone number a work email address a title a mailing address and the like.

In another embodiment the aspect of the user includes a private life and the information profile includes social information about the user. Social information may include information such as food interests travel interests sports interests reading lists charity interests shopping interests current shopping needs e.g. wish lists birthday lists holiday gift lists and the like.

In another embodiment the aspect of the user includes health characteristics and the information profile includes fitness information about the user. Fitness information may include favorite exercises resting heart rate blood pressure height weight cholesterol or the like.

At block a privacy setting for the selection of user information is received from the user. The privacy setting is implemented to permit or deny access to the user information to a third party application.

At block the selection of user information and the privacy setting is transmitted from the user device to a receiving device. The receiving device is then configured to enforce the privacy setting for the third party application executing on the receiving device. In an embodiment the receiving device is another user device. In another embodiment the receiving device is an intermediary device such as the provider system as described above. In such an embodiment the receiving device is an intermediary device configured to store and forward the user information and related privacy setting.

In a further embodiment the method includes detecting a change to the user information and in response to detecting the change to the user information transmitting the user information to the receiving device block . In an embodiment detecting a change is implemented by periodically polling a data store at the user device to detect the change to the user information stored at the data store. Change detection may be implemented for example by using a dirty bit in a database record.

As discussed above obtaining user information and privacy settings at the receiving device may be performed by one of two mechanisms push and pull. Thus in an embodiment using a pull mechanism receiving the user information is performed by recurrently connecting to the source device to determine whether user information is available to download and then downloading the user information and the privacy setting. In a further embodiment the method includes accessing stored user information with the stored user information being previously downloaded and stored at the user device block . The method includes updating based on the user information and privacy setting downloaded from the source device at least one of the stored user information or corresponding privacy setting block .

In an embodiment using a push notification the method operation of receiving the user information is performed by receiving a push notification from the source device and in response to receiving the push notification connecting with the source device and retrieving the user information and the privacy setting. In a further embodiment the method includes accessing stored user information with the stored user information being previously received and stored at the user device and updating based on the user information and privacy setting received from the source device at least one of the stored user information or corresponding privacy setting block .

In another push based embodiment the user information and privacy setting are pushed by the source device to the user device. The data push may be performed in the background to avoid interrupting the user s activity. The data push may be performed at routine times such as once a day or on demand such as when the user information is updated at the source device.

At block the user information and privacy setting is stored at the user device. The user information and privacy setting may be stored in an address book or contact database on the user device.

At block a request to access the user information from a third party application is managed based on the privacy setting.

In a further embodiment the third party application is executed on the user device. The privacy setting is checked for the user information and the third party application is allowed or denied access to the user information based on the privacy setting.

In a further embodiment during an attempt to install the third party application is on the user device the privacy setting for the user information is checked and or denying the third party application is allowed to install based on the privacy setting.

Embodiments may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

Example computer system includes at least one processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both processor cores compute nodes etc. a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a link e.g bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are incorporated into a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors not shown such as a global positioning system GPS sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Examples as described herein can include or can operate on logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules are tangible entities capable of performing specified operations and can be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In an example circuits can be arranged e.g. internally or with respect to external entities such as other circuits in a specified manner as a module. In an example the whole or part of one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware processors can be configured by firmware or software e.g. instructions an application portion or an application as a module that operates to perform specified operations. In an example the software can reside 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal. In an example the software when executed by the underlying hardware of the module causes the hardware to perform the specified operations.

Accordingly the term module is understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed specifically configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily e.g. transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a specified manner or to perform part or all of any operation described herein. Considering examples in which modules are temporarily configured one instantiation of a module may not exist simultaneously with another instantiation of the same or different module. For example where the modules comprise a general purpose hardware processor configured using software the general purpose hardware processor can be configured as respective different modules at different times. Accordingly software can configure a hardware processor for example to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure. The preceding description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments.

Example 1 may include subject matter such as a method means for performing acts machine readable medium including instructions that when performed by a machine cause the machine to performs acts or an apparatus configured to perform comprising receiving at a user device from a user operating the user device a selection of user information receiving from the user a privacy setting for the selection of user information the privacy setting to permit or deny access to the user information to a third party application and transmitting from the user device to a receiving device the selection of user information and the privacy setting wherein the receiving device is configured to enforce the privacy setting for the third party application executing on the receiving device.

Example 2 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of Example 1 where optionally the receiving device is another user device.

Example 3 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 2 to optionally include transmitting the selection of user information and the privacy setting to the receiving device by transmitting the selection of user information and the privacy setting to an intermediary device configured to store and forward the user information and related privacy setting to the receiving device.

Example 4 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 3 where the user information optionally includes one of a name an address or a phone number.

Example 5 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 4 to optionally include detecting a change to the user information and in response to detecting the change to the user information transmitting the user information to the receiving device.

Example 6 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 5 to optionally include detecting a change to the user information by periodically polling a data store at the user device to detect the change to the user information stored at the data store.

Example 7 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 6 to optionally include the user information stored at the data store organized into an information profile the information profile reflecting an aspect of the user.

Example 8 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 7 to optionally include the aspect of the user including professional life and wherein the information profile includes professional information about the user.

Example 9 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 8 to optionally include the aspect of the user includes a private life and the information profile includes social information about the user.

Example 10 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 through 9 to optionally include the aspect of the user includes health characteristics and the information profile includes fitness information about the user.

Example 11 may include subject matter such as a method means for performing acts machine readable medium including instructions that when performed by a machine cause the machine to performs acts or an apparatus configured to perform comprising receiving at a user device from a source device user information and a privacy setting for the user information the privacy setting used to permit or deny access to the user information to a third party application executing on the user device storing the user information and privacy setting at the user device and managing a request to access the user information from the third party application based on the privacy setting.

Example 12 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of Example 11 where optionally the source device comprises an intermediary device that stores and forwards the user information and the privacy setting.

Example 13 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 11 through 12 to optionally include receiving user information and the privacy setting by recurrently connecting to the source device to determine whether user information is available to download and downloading the user information and the privacy setting.

Example 14 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 11 through 13 to optionally include accessing stored user information the stored user information being previously downloaded and stored at the user device and updating at least one of the stored user information or corresponding privacy setting based on the user information and privacy setting downloaded from the source device.

Example 15 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 11 through 14 to optionally include receiving user information and the privacy setting by receiving a push notification from the source device and in response to receiving the push notification connecting with the source device and retrieving the user information and the privacy setting.

Example 16 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 11 through 15 to optionally include accessing stored user information the stored user information being previously received and stored at the user device and updating at least one of the stored user information or corresponding privacy setting based on the user information and privacy setting received from the source device.

Example 17 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 11 through 16 to optionally include executing the third party application on the user device checking the privacy setting for the user information and allowing or denying access to the user information for the third party application based on the privacy setting.

Example 18 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 11 through 17 to optionally include attempting to install the third party application on the user device checking the privacy setting for the user information and allowing or denying the third party application to install based on the privacy setting.

Example 19 may include subject matter such as a device apparatus or computing device comprising a communication module to receive from a publisher user user information and a corresponding privacy setting for the user information the privacy setting indicating whether a third party application on a device operated by a subscriber user is to have access to the user information a user database module to determine a subscriber user the subscriber user being a recipient of the user information and the corresponding privacy setting and a push module to notify the subscriber user of the user information.

Example 20 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of Example 19 where the user information optionally comprises at least one of a name an address or a phone number.

Example 21 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 through 20 to optionally include the user database module configured to access a user database the user database including at least one database table to define a relationship between the publisher user and the subscriber user and at least one database table to define a privacy setting for a datum of user information of the publisher user.

Example 22 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 through 21 to optionally include the communication module configured to receive a request for the user information from a device of the subscriber user the request in response to the push notification and transmit the user information and the corresponding privacy setting to the device of the subscriber user.

Example 23 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 through 22 to optionally include the communication module configured to receive a request for the user information from a device of the subscriber user the request in response to the push notification and synchronize user information and corresponding privacy settings between the device of the subscriber user and the system.

Example 24 may include subject matter such as a device apparatus or computing device comprising a provider computer system and a transmitting user device and a receiving user device connected to the provider computer system where the transmitting user device is configured to receive from a user operating the transmitting user device user information and a privacy setting for the user information the privacy setting to permit or deny access to the user information to a third party application and transmit the user information and the privacy setting to the provider computer system and where the provider system is configured to receive the user information and the privacy setting from the transmitting user device and transmit the user information and the privacy setting to the receiving user device and where the receiving user device is configured to receive the user information and the privacy setting for the user information store the user information and privacy setting at the receiving user device and manage a request to access the user information based on the privacy setting the request from a third party application installed on the receiving user device.

Example 25 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of Example 24 where the transmitting user device comprises a smartphone.

Example 26 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 24 through 25 to optionally include the provider system is configured to transmit the user information and the privacy setting to the receiving user device by transmitting a push notification to the receiving user device receiving a response from the receiving user device the response requesting the user information and the privacy setting be sent to the receiving user device and transmitting the user information and privacy setting to the receiving user device.

Example 27 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 24 through 26 to optionally include the push notification being triggered by receipt of the user information and the privacy setting from the transmitting user device.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

