---

title: Multisegment fractures
abstract: A method can include identifying a discrete natural fracture in a three-dimensional environment that includes a reservoir modeled by a three-dimensional grid model, representing the discrete natural fracture via a multisegment model in a two-dimensional region within the three-dimensional grid model, defining at least one connection for fluid communication between the multisegment model and the three-dimensional grid model, defining boundary conditions for the multisegment model, and solving the multisegment model subject to the at least one connection and the boundary conditions to provide values for fluid flow in the two-dimensional region. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390204&OS=09390204&RS=09390204
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09390204
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121227
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 13 034 737 filed Feb. 25 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 682 628 entitled Multiphase Flow in a Wellbore and Connected Hydraulic Fracture which is incorporated by reference herein and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 358 101 filed Jun. 24 2010 entitled Multiphase Flow in a Wellbore and Connected Hydraulic Fracture which is incorporated by reference herein.

Natural fractures may provide for fluid storage fluid flow etc. Modeling of natural fractures may facilitate understanding of fluid storage fluid flow etc. Various techniques described herein pertain to modeling fractures.

A method can include representing a discrete natural fracture via a multisegment model in a two dimensional region within a three dimensional grid model defining at least one connection for fluid communication between the multisegment model and the three dimensional grid model defining boundary conditions for the multisegment model and solving the multisegment model subject to the at least one connection and the boundary conditions to provide values for fluid flow in the two dimensional region. A system can include a processor for processing information and memory to store modules such as a reservoir module for modeling a reservoir in a subterranean three dimensional environment via a three dimensional grid model a natural fracture module for modeling a natural fracture via a multisegment model in a two dimensional region and a solver module for solving for values of fluid flow in a fracture network based at least in part on modeling a natural fracture via a multisegment model. Computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to grid a natural fracture region using multiple segments positioned with respect to a three dimensional grid model solve a system of equations associated with the multiple segments to provide a solution introduce the solution as input to a system of equations associated with the three dimensional grid model and solve the system of equations associated with the three dimensional grid model.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Natural fractures can provide for fluid storage fluid flow etc. As an example a fluid reservoir may exist in a subterranean formation that includes natural fractures. Fluid may extend from the fluid reservoir into natural fractures that intersect the fluid reservoir. In some instances for a subterranean formation more fluid may reside in natural fractures intersecting a reservoir than in the reservoir itself e.g. consider oil reserves in a large carbonate field .

As an example a naturally fractured reservoir can include a rock matrix along with a set of natural fractures. In such an example the rock matrix may be described by various properties e.g. lithology properties fluid properties etc. . Natural fractures may include those formed due to stress strain etc. for example due to forces associated with plate tectonic activity. Where multiple natural fractures have been propagated in a formation they may form natural fracture networks which for example can contribute to storage e.g. via porosity and fluid flow e.g. via permeability transmissibility etc. . As to fluid production from such a reservoir natural fractures may provide for comparatively fast fluid flow and may be present at various length scales from relatively small e.g. of the order of meters or less to a scale comparable to one or more dimensions of the reservoir. As an example larger fractures may form fracture corridors which may be for example identified and mapped for a formation e.g. based on seismic data interpretation of seismic data etc. .

With respect to smaller length natural fractures e.g. of a distribution of natural fractures as an example those below a resolution of a reservoir simulation may be simulated using a continuum approach e.g. using one or more types of porosity models such as a dual porosity model . For larger natural fractures e.g. of a distribution of natural fractures for example those having a dimension greater than a dimension of a reservoir model such natural fractures may be modeled using fracture representations that can be mathematically linked to the reservoir model. For example a workflow may include adding natural fracture representations to an existing model of a rock matrix coupled with a solution technique to effectively solve the resulting coupled set of equations for modeling flow etc. In such an example the fracture representations may be dimensionless in a dimension with respect to a dimension within an existing geological model. As an example a workflow may include parameterizing one or more natural fracture representations without gridding e.g. without modifying an existing geological model grid the one or more fracture representations at a geological scale. Such an approach may reduce conditioning demands for a geological model while offering an opportunity to accurately represent characteristics such as storage flow etc. of the one or more natural fractures.

As an example natural fractures may be characterized at least in part by orientation and size e.g. optionally in two dimensions with a dimensionless third dimension . As an example a natural fracture may be characterized in part by a length width aspect ratio which may be greater than 100 1. Natural fractures may exist in clusters for example spaced several hundred feet apart along a general direction e.g. orientation . Such natural fractures may enhance permeability locally and may be beneficial or detrimental to techniques to enhance recovery. For example natural fractures may act to relieve pressure applied during a wellbore hydraulic fracturing process that aims to create artificial fractures. In such an example fewer artificial fractures may be created lesser volume artificial fractures may be created etc. Further a mixed or hybrid network may be created that includes both artificial and natural fractures. As an example where a natural fracture is dry fluid may flow from an artificial fracture to the natural facture which may be beneficial or detrimental depending on what type of fluid is flowing location of the natural fracture etc. As an example a hydraulic fracturing process may reactivate a natural fracture or natural fractures . Where reactivation promotes flow of an undesirable fluid e.g. water recovery of a desirable fluid or fluids may be impacted e.g. as to recovery processing etc. . As an example reactivation of a natural fracture or natural fractures may be beneficial and improve efficiency of a fracturing process.

As an example modeling of a natural fracture may enhance decision making based on determinations as to whether the natural fracture is beneficial or detrimental to a particular goal or goals. For example if a natural fracture stores a certain amount of a desired fluid e.g. a substantial amount modeling may enhance decision making as to where a producer well and an injector well may be positioned to recover at least a portion of the desired fluid from the natural fracture e.g. consider modeling flow due to applied pressure breakthrough recovery of desired fluid etc. . As another example if a natural fracture is substantially void of a desired fluid a recovery process may aim to avoid creation of any paths that could cause flow of the desired fluid from another store e.g. a fluid reservoir a filled fracture etc. to that natural fracture. As yet another example if a natural fracture stores an undesirable fluid a recovery process for a desired fluid may aim to avoid creation of any paths that could cause mixing of the undesired fluid and the desired fluid.

As an example a natural fracture may be characterized with respect to a reservoir e.g. with respect to a recovery process such as hydraulic fracturing . As another example a natural fracture may be characterized with respect to a chemical process such as acidizing e.g. a process that includes introducing an acidic material into a natural fracture in a carbonate field to enlarge extend etc. the natural fracture . Characterization of a natural fracture may include a characterization that is beneficial detrimental or neutral with respect to one or more goals.

As an example permeability in a fracture can be greater than in material surrounding the fracture. As mentioned fractures may be natural or artificial. An artificial fracture may be made for example by injecting fluid into a wellbore to increase pressure in the wellbore beyond a level sufficient to cause fracture of a surrounding formation or formations. In such an example an artificial fracture is in fluid communication with the wellbore. Thus an artificial fracture may generally be viewed as being part of a network that includes a wellbore. As to chemical processes such as acidizing such a process may be applied to a natural fracture or an artificial fracture e.g. a hydraulic fracture . Acidizing may be considered to be a stimulation operation in which acid e.g. hydrochloric acid is injected into a formation e.g. carbonate formation such that the acid etches fracture faces to form conductive channels. As an example hydrochloric acid may be introduced into a fracture in a limestone formation to react with the limestone to form calcium chloride carbon dioxide and water. As another example consider a dolomite formation where magnesium chloride is also formed. Acids other than hydrochloric acid may be used e.g. hydrofluoric acid etc. . As an example a mixture of acids may be used.

As to pressure fracturing pressure to fracture a formation may be estimated based in part on a fracture gradient for the formation e.g. kPa m or psi foot . As an example techniques to make fractures may involve combustion or explosion e.g. combustible gases explosives etc. . As to hydraulic fractures injected fluid e.g. water other fluid mixture of fluids etc. may be used to open and extend a fracture from a wellbore and may be used to transport a proppant throughout a fracture. A proppant may include sand ceramic or other particles that can hold fractures open at least to some extent after a hydraulic fracturing treatment e.g. to preserve paths for flow whether for example from a wellbore to a reservoir or vice versa .

Artificial fractures may be oriented in any of a variety of directions which may be at least to some extent controllable e.g. based on wellbore direction size and location based on pressure and pressure gradient with respect to time based on injected material based on use of a proppant based on existing stress etc. .

Hydraulic fracturing may be particularly useful for production of natural gas as well as for production of so called unconventional natural gas. A larger percentage of worldwide reserves of unconventional natural gas may be categorized as undeveloped resources. Reasons for lack of production from such reserves can include an industry focus on producing gas from conventional reserves and difficulty of producing gas from unconventional gas reserves. Unconventional gas reserves may be characterized by low permeability where gas has difficulty flowing into wells without some type of assistive efforts. For example one way to assist gas flow from an unconventional reservoir can involve hydraulic fracturing to increase overall permeability of the reservoir.

Subterranean formations and related physical phenomena may be modeled using various techniques. Such techniques can involve gridding or other discretization of one or more subterranean volumes that make up a formation. Where a formation includes one or more fluids e.g. gas liquid or both a modeling technique may also include formulating equations that account for physical phenomena such as pressure saturation and composition. As an example consider an oil and gas field that spans a volume measured in kilometers. A model of such a field may include many thousands of grid cells or grid points where each cell or point has associated pressure saturation and composition values which may be equation unknowns for example optionally with respect to time. Given initial values e.g. initial conditions and boundary values e.g. boundary conditions an iterative solution technique may be applied to the model equations to determine the equation unknowns at one or more points in time e.g. steady state or transient .

As mentioned a fracture may be characterized according to an aspect ratio. As an example a fracture may include a length width aspect ratio greater than about 1000 1. As an example a fracture may include a width of the order of about a centimeter and a length of the order of about a hundred meters or more. With respect to modeling such a fracture with grid cells or grid points many of such grid cells or grid points may be involved due to the scale of the fracture. Accordingly for a simulation the number of unknowns may increase which in turn can increase computation demands.

As an example a fracture may be modeled using multiple connected segments. As an example a segment may be defined as including properties to characterize a natural fracture. For example a segment may be defined as including properties that correspond to a dual porosity model or Darcy model e.g. for flow in a permeable medium driven by a pressure gradient . As an example a reservoir e.g. a naturally fractured reservoir a vugular carbonate reservoir etc. may be classified as a dual porosity reservoir e.g. a reservoir that includes high permeability regions and low permeability regions .

As an example a fracture model may be defined using segments and associated equations for storage flow etc. for example to or from a reservoir. In such an example a reservoir model may be defined using grid cells that account for various geophysical features e.g. faults horizons etc. .

As an example a segment for modeling a portion of a natural fracture may be defined by a segment pipe and a node. As an example sources sinks etc. may be connected to one or more segments that model a natural fracture. For example consider a reservoir as a source or sink in fluid communication with a natural fracture. As an example a model of a natural fracture may include mathematical connections to one or more grid cells of a reservoir model. As an example for modeling storage flow etc. in a fracture a segment may be associated with equations to model multiphase fluid in a porous medium. For example such equations may describe a Darcy flow model for each phase flow e.g. a Darcy flow model for phase pressure drop with additional independent variables for each phase molar rate .

As mentioned a reservoir model may include a three dimensional grid e.g. a spatial grid that can be iterated over time e.g. temporally to provide a four dimensional model . As an example a reservoir may span hundreds of square kilometers and be located kilometers in depth. The expansive nature of such a reservoir may bring various types of physical phenomena into play. Such phenomena may exhibit macroscale microscale or a combination of macro and microscale behavior. Attempts to capture microscale phenomena via increased reservoir grid density or grid densities can result in an increase in computational and other resource demands. For example increasing two dimensional grid density by decreasing grid block spacing from 10 meters by 10 meters to 5 meters by 5 meters can increase computational demand significantly e.g. a four fold increase . Thus some tradeoffs may exist between modeling microscale features and resource demands.

Modeling fractures with grid blocks that approximate fracture geometry e.g. possibly less than about a couple of centimeters may result in grid blocks that tend to be smaller in thickness than surrounding grid cells. In such an approach size disparity may lead to inaccuracies in simulation instabilities and small timesteps. As an example a multisegment approach to modeling fractures may be used for example without resorting to introduction of grid blocks that may give rise to size disparity issues. As an example a multisegment approach to modeling one or more fractures may be followed by a grid approach for example where results of the multisegment approach inform the grid approach. Such an example may enhance a grid approach for example by refining orientation location etc. of a natural fracture using a multisegment approach.

As an example a method may include multisegment modeling of fluid communication between i one or more natural fractures and a reservoir ii one or more natural fractures and one or more artificial fractures iii one or more natural fractures and one or more wellbores iv one or more artificial fractures and a reservoir v one or more artificial fractures and one or more wellbores. In such an example combinations may be modeled such that a multisegment model models indirect fluid communication between different types of entities. For example an artificial fracture may be modeled via a multisegment model to be in fluid communication with a reservoir via a natural fracture. As mentioned depending on the process implemented to create an artificial fracture it may be inherently in fluid communication with a wellbore e.g. via a wellbore where pressure has been applied to create the artificial fracture .

As an example a multisegment model may include different types of segments. For example a segment may be provided that can characterize injecting or producing performance relations e.g. a segment associated with equations that describe multiphase fluid flow entering into or exiting out of a wellbore . As another example a segment may be provided that can characterize multiphase fluid flow in a porous medium e.g. equations that can describe a Darcy flow model for each phase flow . As an example a segment may be provided that can characterize a chemical process a pressure process etc. that may act on a formation e.g. acidizing fracturing etc. .

As an example a solution technique can include solving a system of non linear equations for a multisegment model that models one or more natural fractures. A solution to such a model can in turn be a component of an overall reservoir non linear solution procedure. For example an overall reservoir solution procedure may utilize a converged solution of a multisegment model that models one or more natural fractures.

As an example a multisegment model can include discretizing and parameterizing one or more fracture corridors with respect to a reference system that can enhance flexibility in representation and calculation efficiency of a field wide fractured reservoir model. As an example a multisegment model may leverage capabilities of a well model specification associated with a simulation framework. For example the INTERSECT framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. includes a well model specification that specifies segments for creating a multisegment well model. In such an example a well segment may be adapted to model a natural fracture for example by providing one or more appropriate boundary conditions. As an example a boundary condition may be applied to a well segment that avoids a direct connection of that segment to the surface via a wellbore such that the well segment can be used to model a natural fracture. Further a well model specification may include a type of segment for connecting a well segment to a reservoir where that segment models a porous matrix rather than a conduit e.g. a wellbore . As an example a natural fracture may be modeled using porous matrix segments e.g. Darcy segments with appropriate boundary conditions e.g. no direct flow to the surface etc. .

As an example a single natural fracture multiple natural fractures e.g. optionally as a natural fracture corridor may be represented as a two dimensional grid or multisegment network. In such an example a 2D grid that represents a natural fracture may be described as multiple segments specified according to equations for a porous medium e.g. Darcy segments .

As an example a method can include solving equations for individual natural fractures in a nested fashion relative to a reservoir model grid which may provide a more robust solution than an approach that involves the natural fracture equations being solved concurrently with those of the reservoir model grid.

As an example a method can include locating one or more 2D grids with respect to a pre existing grid e.g. a reservoir model grid . In such an example a 2D grid for example lacking a thickness e.g. dimensionless in one dimension may be inserted e.g. mathematically into a pre existing grid along a grid line or it may be inserted using a process that includes grid cell division for pre existing grid cells intersected by the 2D grid. Such a process may place fewer demands than a process that aims to represent a natural fracture with its thickness which may involve introducing grid cells into the pre existing grid where the introduced grid includes a dimension smaller than that of the pre existing grid of the region where the grid is to be inserted.

As an example a well model adapted to model a natural fracture may be run with a flow boundary condition with a zero rate which may act to link a 2D grid of a multisegment natural fracture to a reservoir grid.

As an example a system may provide for modeling one or more fracture corridors using a multisegment approach along with using a continuum dual porosity approach e.g. for a subterranean region to create a representative hybrid model for example where major fracture corridors can be modeled explicitly using the multisegment approach and an associated micro fracture system can be represented by a dual or multiple porosity characterization model.

As to workflow a reservoir engineer may commence modeling of a reservoir while having some information about very large scale fracture features e.g. from seismic data well testing well logging etc. however the reservoir engineer may have little information and hence uncertainty about fractures or micro fractures that are too small to identify which may have a material influence on storage flow etc. As a fracture system may affect long term reservoir performance in performing a workflow the reservoir engineer may attempt to utilize multiple simulation models in an effort to understand impact of reservoir uncertainties and variance in the characterization of the fracture system within the measurement tolerances on the production and recovery performance of the field.

As an example given a system that includes modules for implementing a multisegment model for one or more natural fractures a reservoir engineer may perform a workflow that includes mapping natural fractures using available information to a map and modeling natural fractures of the map using a multisegment model. Further the reservoir engineer may optionally perform a workflow that includes mapping one or more alternative natural fracture maps e.g. maps that may encompass possible alternative characterizations . As an example a workflow may include one or more of a base unfractured case fracture maps and their resultant fracture representations which may be added to a simulator to allow for simulation. In such an example where well performance is predicted and historical data exist predicted well performance may be compared to the historical data.

Where a computationally stable base unfractured case exists for a reservoir grid model as an example a method can include introduction of 2D grids that represent natural fractures. In such an example 2D grids may be introduced in series or in parallel to vary intensity and conductivity of fractures. As such an approach may avoid regridding of the base unfractured case reservoir grid model and allow for examination of the effect of a given fracture or fracture set while having some assurances that the underlying base case remains stable. As an example a multisegment approach to modeling natural fractures can enhance convenience flexibility and resolution of impact and sensitivity of fracture storage flow etc. on reservoir performance recovery etc. As an example a multisegment approach to modeling natural fractures can enhance understanding of well placement hydraulic fracturing fluid injection chemical treatment etc. which may relate to one or more goals e.g. production of a desired fluid .

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an additional information component e.g. well logging data a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information . An entity may be characterized by one or more properties e.g. a geometrical pillar grid entity of an earth model may be characterized by a porosity property . Such properties may represent one or more measurements e.g. acquired data calculations etc.

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component e.g. consider the processing component . As an example the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. As an example output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

As an example the simulation component may include one or more features of a simulator such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. the INTERSECT reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. etc. As an example a reservoir or reservoirs may be simulated with respect to one or more enhanced recovery techniques e.g. consider a thermal process such as SAGD etc. .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As mentioned the simulation component of may include one or more features of a simulator such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulator the INTERSECT reservoir simulator etc. shows a flowchart of an example of a process for simulating physical phenomena associated with a subterranean formation which may be for example a portion of the geologic environment of or other geologic environment. also shows an example of a multisegment well model which may provide for modeling of wells in the subterranean formation .

In the example of a grid block provides for gridding a surface a volume etc. to represent the subterranean formation while a model block provides equations for modeling physical phenomena associated with the subterranean formation . The equations of the model block may be discretized or otherwise described with respect to one or more grids as provided by the grid block e.g. structured unstructured structured and unstructured .

As an example equations may be solved to describe how values of dependent variables such as pressure e.g. including capillary pressure temperature saturation mole fraction e.g. liquid mole fraction vapor mole fraction aqueous mole fraction etc. and mass rate e.g. via mass conservation equations can change with respect to time. Equations may include various property related terms for example porosity pore volume viscosity mass density gravity density and permeability. As an example equations may be formulated with respect to molar flow e.g. to provide values that readily illustrate phenomena such as reaction conversion and stoichiometry .

As an example reservoir simulation can involve numerical solution of a system of equations that describes the physics governing certain behaviors of multi component multiphase fluid flow in porous media of a subterranean reservoir. A system of equations may be formulated as coupled nonlinear partial differential equations PDEs . Such PDEs may be discretized spatially and optionally temporally with respect to one or more grids. Systems of equations may be solved for unknowns via an iterative process. As an example iterations may occur for a series of time steps until a prescribed time is reached.

In the example of a linearization block provides for linearization of a system of equations such as those provided by the model block . For example linearization of a nonlinear system of equations may occur using a Newton Raphson method that involves formation of a Jacobian matrix of derivatives with respect to various unknowns. As an example the subterranean formation may be or planned to be intersected with one or more wells. In such an example a system of equations may include a reservoir portion and a well portion. With respect to ordering of equations that describe such portions the introduction of the well portion may impact one or more of ordering matrix size etc. compared to a system of equations that accounts for a reservoir without one or more wells. For example a reservoir portion may result in a diagonally structured Jacobian matrix e.g. with some diagonal band width while a well portion may result in addition of borders to the diagonally structured Jacobian matrix.

As an example unknowns may include pressure P unknowns and saturation S unknowns. For example one or more grids may be imposed upon an area of interest in a reservoir model to define a plurality of cells each having one or more unknown properties associated therewith. Examples of unknown properties can include pressure temperature saturation permeability porosity etc.

A solver block may provide for solving a linearized system of equations e.g. a system of linear equations for example for a particular time. As an example a solver block may implement a CPR method per the CPR method block see e.g. Wallis Incomplete Gaussian Elimination for Preconditioning of Generalized Conjugate Gradient Acceleration SPE Reservoir Simulation Symposium Nov. 15 18 1983 SPE 12265 . In the example of the solver block may iterate in an effort to reach one or more convergence criteria e.g. acceptable error . Where time is involved time may be incremented e.g. via a time step after convergence has been reached for a prior time.

As an example a matrix may be ordered in a cell by cell manner where cells have associated unknowns. Such a matrix may include zero entries and nonzero entries. Size or shape of a block may be determined by cell neighbors or other relationships. Further characteristics of a numerical technique may have an effect on one or more of block size shape etc. e.g. order of a finite difference technique etc. .

As to the multisegment well model nodes and segment pipes are shown with respect to an example of a reservoir and a wellbore to model flow between the wellbore and the reservoir e.g. via grid cells that model the reservoir . As shown in the example of the multisegment well model may provide for discretization of a well into a number of one dimensional segments e.g. lines where each of the segments includes a node and a segment pipe. In the multisegment well model a segment may include no connections to a reservoir grid cell or may include one or more connections to a reservoir grid cell. Such a model may provide for modeling three phase black oil for example via mass conservation equations and a pressure drop equation associated with each well segment. As an example well equations may be solved along with reservoir equations to give pressure flow rates e.g. mass flow rates volume flow rates velocities etc. and composition e.g. phase composition etc. in each segment.

As an example the multisegment well model may be part of a well model specification of a framework such as the INTERSECT framework. As an example such a well model specification may be adapted to model one or more natural fractures and optionally one or more artificial fractures. In such an example one or more wells may be modeled in addition to one or more natural fractures etc. For example given a multisegment representation of a natural fracture a segment may be introduced that mathematically links the natural fracture to a well. In such an example a boundary condition or type of segment may exist to establish the mathematical link for example a Darcy segment of a porous natural fracture to a wellbore segment of a well e.g. an open conduit for fluid flow . In such a manner fluid communication can be modeled between a natural fracture and another entity in a multisegment model. As an example segments may be introduced to form a 2D grid for a fracture e.g. where the 2D grid may be mathematically linked to a 3D grid used for modeling a subterranean formation . For example segments may form a plane that mathematically represents a fracture for purposes of modeling flow to the fracture from the fracture and within the fracture. In such an example flow may be for one or more fluids e.g. liquid gas injection fluid production fluid etc. . As mentioned flow may be in terms of mass flow rate volumetric flow rate velocity etc.

Where the decision block decides that one or more discrete fractures exist the method continues to a construction block for constructing a discrete fracture model. As shown in the example of the method can include constructing a discrete fracture model via a representation block for representing one or more discrete fractures in 2D via segments and optionally representing at least one of the segments as including one or more connections. Given a discrete fracture model the method can include a simulation block for simulating flow in the one or more discrete fractures. In such an example simulation of flow may include simulation of Darcy flow e.g. where one or more of the segments of a multisegment model include equations that describe Darcy flow .

As an example a simulation may simulate a state of a system. For example a relatively steady state may exist for a subterranean formation where one or more natural fractures act to store fluid of a reservoir. In such an example a simulation may simulate a storage state that provides information as to whether one or more natural fractures store fluid or not. As an example such a simulation may not involve intermediate timesteps in reaching the steady state. As an example given a steady state solution a well artificial fracture etc. may be introduced to a multisegment model and a simulation performed to model flow for example from a well to a natural fracture from an artificial fracture to a natural fracture from a reservoir to a natural fracture etc. As an example a well may be a producer well an injector well or other type of well.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or processor cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium.

As indicated in the example of a solution of the solution block can inform an update block for updating one or more regions an update block for updating one or more connections and an update block for updating one or more boundary conditions. In such a manner one or more loops may exist that act to examine spatial variations property variations etc. As an example one or more loops may act to refine a solution or solutions for example to more accurately model flow in a 3D environment that includes at least one 2D region which may represent a natural fracture.

In the example of a 2D region may be a multisegment region where multiple segments represent a natural fracture. As an example the method may include representing entities such as wells artificial fractures etc. In such an example the blocks and may provide for appropriate connections and boundary conditions respectively.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or processor cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium.

As an example a method can include identifying a discrete natural fracture in a three dimensional environment that includes a reservoir the subterranean formation and the reservoir modeled by a three dimensional grid model representing the discrete natural fracture via a multisegment model in a two dimensional region within the three dimensional grid model defining at least one connection for fluid communication between the multisegment model and the three dimensional grid model defining boundary conditions for the multisegment model and solving the multisegment model subject to the at least one connection and the boundary conditions to provide values for fluid flow in the two dimensional region. As an example such a method may include solving for the three dimensional grid model for fluid flow based at least in part on the values for fluid flow in the two dimensional region.

As an example a method can include defining at least one connection for fluid communication between a multisegment model and a well the well modeled by another multisegment model. Such a method may also include solving the multisegment models to provide values for fluid flow in at least a two dimensional region.

As an example a method can include formulating a plan for creation of an artificial fracture based at least in part on values for fluid flow in a two dimensional region that represents a natural fracture. As an example a method can include representing an artificial fracture via a multisegment model in a two dimensional region within a three dimensional grid model and solving multiple multisegment models to provide values for fluid flow two dimensional regions.

As an example a method can include defining at least one connection for fluid communication between a multisegment model and a three dimensional grid model by defining a connection for fluid communication between a discrete natural fracture and a reservoir. In such an example the reservoir can include fluid and values for fluid flow in a two dimensional region may represent flow of fluid from the reservoir to the discrete natural fracture from the discrete natural fracture to the reservoir or a combination of both.

As an example a three dimensional grid model may account for at least some fractures in a three dimensional environment using a continuum model. In such an example other fractures may be considered discrete and modeled using a multisegment model or models.

As an example a 2D region may be a multisegment region that represents an existing fracture e.g. natural or artificial or a hybrid thereof a prospective fracture etc. As to the model block modeling may be for an existing well a prospective well a modification to an existing well etc. As an example a multisegment model may include at least one natural fracture and at least one well whether existing prospective etc.

In the example of the method includes a decision block for deciding whether data exist for one or more existing wells. As an example where the decision block decides that such data exists the method may continue to a history matching block for performing history matching e.g. to compare a solution of the solution block to data . Thereafter the method may continue at a continuation block which may continue to a loop action or other action. As an example where the decision block decides that sufficient data does not exist e.g. for purposes of history matching the method may continue to the continuation block .

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or processor cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium.

As an example a method can include implementing one or more of the module to represent a network such as the fracture network . In the example of the fracture network includes natural fractures and artificial fractures. As an example creation of a hydraulic fracture may be impacted by one or more natural fractures. For example hydraulic fracture growth may proceed in a northeast southwest direction that reactivates natural fractures dashed lines trending in another direction or directions see e.g. arrows indicate possible propagation directions of hydraulic fractures .

As an example a method can include modeling of natural fractures in an environment using a multisegment model and solving the multisegment model for storage flow etc. for example with respect to a reservoir or reservoirs. In turn a solution may be analyzed for prospective artificial fractures. Such an analysis may for example include positioning of one or more wells for creating one or more prospective artificial fractures with respect to one or more natural fractures to generate a network that acts to reactivate natural fractures as conduits for flow of fluid. As an example such an analysis may aim to avoid certain natural fractures and reactivate e.g. utilize other natural fractures. In such an example refinement of natural fracture locations properties etc. may occur using a multisegment model optionally in conjunction with a 3D grid model that models one or more reservoirs.

As an example a model may account for stress or one or more other factors that may relate to fracturing. As an example a multisegment natural fracture model may be mathematically linked to a stress model for a 3D environment. As an example a model may account for a chemical process e.g. acidizing . As an example a multisegment natural fracture model may be mathematically linked to a chemical reaction model for modeling a chemical process e.g. with respect to one or more fracture characteristics . Where history matching is performed for flow based at least in part on a solution to a multisegment natural fracture model refinements to the multisegment natural fracture model may act to update one or more parameters associated with stress e.g. direction etc. .

As an example a system can include one or more processors for processing information memory operatively coupled to the one or more processors and modules that include instructions storable in the memory and executable by at least one of the one or more processors. Such modules may include a reservoir module for modeling a reservoir in a subterranean three dimensional environment via a three dimensional grid model a natural fracture module for modeling a natural fracture via a multisegment model in a two dimensional region a well module for modeling a well via a multisegment model and one or more solver modules for solving for values of fluid flow in a fracture network based at least in part on modeling a natural fracture via a multisegment model. As an example a system may include an artificial fracture module for modeling an artificial fracture via a multisegment model in a two dimensional region. As an example a system may include a solver module for solving for values of fluid flow in a fracture network that includes at least one natural fracture and at least one artificial fracture.

As mentioned boundary conditions may be defined e.g. imposed on one or more segments of a multisegment model that models a natural fracture natural fractures etc. shows an example of an environment that includes various formations a wellbore and natural fractures. As indicated the formations include fluid such as oil gas and or water which may define various zones. As to boundary conditions a natural fracture may include a natural fracture to natural fracture boundary condition a natural fracture to oil filled formation boundary condition a natural fracture to wellbore boundary condition a natural fracture to a gas filled formation boundary condition a natural fracture to a water filled formation boundary condition etc. As an example a natural fracture may include multiple boundary conditions for example for both a wellbore and a fluid filled formation.

As an example a formation may be considered fluid filled or void e.g. dry depending on type of fluid. For example a gas filled formation may be considered void with respect oil where a goal is to produce oil. As indicated by the example environment of oil and water may coexist within a formation and a strategy may be formulated to produce oil with minimal water content. As an example such a strategy may be honed via use of a multisegment that models one or more natural fractures with respect to an environment e.g. to avoid activation of a natural fracture that may lead to increase of water content in oil .

As to the GUI it may also provide for viewing the various entities in another view such as a plan view in an x y plane. The GUI may include one or more data fields for example for input of parameters associated with fractures . For example a fracture field depth may be specified along a depth dimension and a fracture field orientation may be specified with respect to a direction e.g. optionally an angle . As mentioned natural fractures may occur as clusters or corridors which may be oriented in a general direction e.g. responsive to past stress etc. . In the example of the GUI may provide for orienting a field as whole or individual fractures within a cluster or corridor.

As to the GUI the natural fracture is represented as a 2D grid along with various values which may be properties assigned to the 2D grid solutions to a model for the 2D grid etc. For example the various values as indicated by the scale may represent static properties e.g. permeability etc. dynamic values e.g. from a simulation etc. . As an example a GUI may present pressure values saturation values e.g. percentage of a phase in a multiphase fluid system porosity values flow values or other values associated with a Darcy model or other model. Such values may be presented directly on a 2D grid. As an example a GUI may include a graphic control that for allows for selection of one or more types of values and display of such values e.g. using color hatching contours etc. with respect to a grid that represents a fracture. In such a manner a user may interact with the GUI to visualize values to determine a strategy hone a strategy update a model etc. As an example a visualization may be presented as a series of images with respect to time e.g. a movie for example to illustrate flow change in one or more properties phase composition etc. with respect to time.

As an example the 2D grid may include 25 or more segments which may be Darcy segments where each Darcy segment includes property values. In such an example boundary conditions may be specified for at least some of the segments. For example where the well connects to the fracture the segments along that boundary may include appropriate boundary conditions. As another example where the well connects to the fracture the segments along that boundary may include appropriate boundary conditions.

As an example the well may be specified to be a producer well while the well may be specified to be an injector well. In such an example a multisegment model may model fluid flow in the fracture e.g. the 2D grid given conditions as to injection of fluid via the injector well . In such an example the fracture may include boundary conditions that avoid movement of fluid to the surface e.g. one or more boundaries .

As an example the natural fracture may include one or more boundary conditions that mathematically link it to a reservoir modeled by the 3D grid . As an example where the well is specified to be an injector well it may inject a fluid such as water that causes movement of oil from an oil reservoir in fluid communication with the natural fracture to flow to the well which may be specified to be a producer well. In such an example the 2D grid may be displayed in the GUI to indicate presence of a fluid a fluid phase fluid pressure fluid flow etc.

The GUIs and are shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or processor cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions associated with rendering the GUIs and . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or processor cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium.

As shown in the example of the method includes a solution block for solving a system of equations for fracture regions. The system of equations may include for example well equations fracture well equations Darcy equations and fracture formation equations e.g. connection equations . As an example formulated equations for various phenomena in a fracture system may be solved simultaneously to convergence. A solution to such a system of equations may be by itself of use for field management or other management purposes.

In the example of the method includes an introduction block for introducing a solution to a fracture model to a comprehensive reservoir simulation e.g. in accord with the solution scheme . The method also includes a solution block for solving the comprehensive reservoir simulation for example as modeled using a three dimensional grid.

The method also shows circuitry or computer readable medium blocks and which may be physical components e.g. actual circuitry storage devices combinations thereof etc. configured to perform actions of their corresponding method blocks and .

As an example one or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to grid one or more natural fracture regions with respect to a three dimensional grid model of a subterranean formation that comprises a reservoir the one or more natural fracture regions represented via multiple segments solve a system of equations associated with the multiple segments to provide a solution introduce the solution as input to a system of equations associated with the three dimensional grid model and solve the system of equations associated with the three dimensional grid model. In such an example one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to grid the one or more natural fracture regions for individual natural fractures of a natural fracture corridor.

As an example one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to render representations of the natural fracture corridor to a display. In such an example instructions may be included to instruct a computing system to render graphical controls to the display for receipt of commands to orient the natural fracture corridor with respect to the three dimensional of the subterranean formation.

In the examples of a set of fracture equations can be solved together and independently of a set of reservoir grid cell equations for each nonlinear iteration of a combined system of reservoir and fracture equations. From a reservoir grid solution viewpoint such an approach has the effect of solving the reservoir system given a locally converged solution of at least one fracture system and optionally multiple fracture systems associated with a reservoir.

The method includes a provision block that provides reservoir equations and a provision block that provides fracture equations. A solution block includes a solving the fracture equations followed by b solving reservoir equations. An example of an approach for performing various actions of block is presented with respect to blocks to . Thereafter the method provides per an output block a solution for a time T .

In the example of the solution block can implement nested loops that act to converge solutions to various equations. An outer loop acts to converge a solution to reservoir equations via a decision block an inner loop acts to converge a solution to equations for fractures via a decision block and an innermost loop acts to converge a solution to equations for a particular fracture system via a decision block . Accordingly the blocks to can begin with initialization of fracture equations per block e.g. optionally based on output from a reservoir model simulator followed by converging solutions for each particular fracture system and then globally converging the solutions for multiple fracture systems. After convergence of fracture systems an update block may update unknowns for reservoir equations e.g. independent variables . A simulator may solve the reservoir equations by a technique that iterates values of the unknowns until convergence. Once converged the result may be output per the output block . Such a result aims to include a global solution for a reservoir including associated fracture systems.

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

