---

title: Authorization of service using vehicle information and/or user information
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for authorizing an action using vehicle identification information (e.g., supplied by a vehicle) and user identification information (e.g., supplied by a mobile device associated with a user of the vehicle). Such an action may relate to, among other things, refueling the vehicle, parking the vehicle, using a fee-based road segment, and/or other vehicle-centric actions, for example. Moreover, in one embodiment, as part of the authorization, a payment transaction may be initiated by an authorization system configured to authorize the action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08912924&OS=08912924&RS=08912924
owner: INRIX, Inc.
number: 08912924
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
The availability and ease of credit card systems have altered the way people pay for services particularly vehicle centric services. Transactions that used to require interaction with an attendant can now be performed without the aid of an attendant. By way of example users can pay by credit card at a gasoline pump and or at a parking establishment reducing e.g. to zero the required interaction with an attendant and reducing the time it takes to complete the transaction.

Today authorization and or payment systems have advanced beyond credit card systems to further increase user convenience. By way of example many toll roads provide frequent travelers with RFID tags that may be mounted to their vehicles. When a vehicle enters and or exits the toll road the RFID tag is detected and a user account associated with the RFID tag is billed. As such the user may not be required to stop at a toll gate to collect a ticket and or to manually pay a requisite fee. As another example many parking establishments and or parking authorities have developed payment applications for mobile devices e.g. smartphones tablets etc. . When a user approaches a parking gate and or parking meter the mobile device may communicate with the parking gate and or parking meter e.g. via Bluetooth infrared etc. to communicate an identity of the user and or to communicate a user authorization to debit an account associated with the payment application for example.

While these more advanced systems have proven useful there are some drawbacks. For example these authorization and or payment systems are often highly fractured. As an example an RFID tag provided by a first toll road authority may not be accepted by a second toll road authority. Therefore if a user frequently travels on toll roads controlled by both the first and second toll road authorities the user may be required to mount two RFID tags to his her vehicle. Likewise the payment applications developed by parking establishments and or parking authorities are often not universal and or not interoperable. Therefore a user that frequents multiple garages may be required to install multiple applications each of which requires its own user account. It may be appreciated that such lack of interoperability may be undesirable to a user because the user may be required to create multiple user accounts and may be required to know which establishment utilizes which application and or RFID tag for example.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques are described herein for a centralized authorization and or payment system. An action to be performed may be authorized based upon both user information which may be supplied by a mobile device associated with the user and vehicle information which may be supplied by a communication system embedded within a vehicle. Such an action typically relates to a mobility service associated with operating a vehicle e.g. a vehicle centric action . By way of example types of actions that may require such authorization include but are not limited to refueling the vehicle e.g. electric vehicle charging parking the vehicle toll road authorization and or congestion zone authorization.

In one embodiment when a vehicle is within a predetermined distance of the refueling mechanism parking establishment toll gate etc. the vehicle or the mobile device may communicate the user information and the vehicle information to an authorization system. The authorization system may in turn confirm that the user vehicle combination is authorized to receive the mobility service and communicate the authorization to the refueling mechanism parking establishment toll gate etc. In this way the authorization is dependent upon both user information e.g. provided by the mobile device and the vehicle information e.g. provided by the vehicle . By way of example authorization may be denied where the user is authorized for the action but the vehicle is not. Likewise authorization may be denied where the vehicle is authorized for the action but the user is not.

One or more systems and or techniques are further described herein for payment collection associated with using a mobility service. By way of example a credit card and or other funds account may be associated with the user and or the vehicle and as part of authorizing the action the authorization system may charge the associated account a fee that is accessed by the mobility service provider. In this way a cost associated with refueling the vehicle parking the vehicle etc. may be automatically debited to an account associated with the vehicle and or the user based upon the supplied user and or vehicle information. Moreover where an amount of the fee is not known until after the action is complete e.g. such as at a refueling station where the amount of fuel required to fill a tank may be unknown until refueling is complete the initial authorization may include initiating a provisional fee that is updated upon completion of the action for example. Thus as part of an authorization the authorization service may authorize a refueling station to provide up to 75 worth of fuel e.g. and apply a provisional charge to the debit account to verify that sufficient funds are available . When the refueling station has completed the refueling the refueling station may report the actual cost of the fuel e.g. which may be less than 75 to the authorization system and the authorization system may release the provisional charge and debit the account the actual cost of the fuel.

One or more systems and or techniques are further described herein for communicating the debit of fees to the user and or alerting the user when the mobility service is about to expire and or has expired. By way of example an initial authorization may provide for parking the vehicle at a parking meter for twenty minutes e.g. and a requisite fee may be debited to an account associated with the user . Prior to the allotted time elapsing the authorization system for example may communicate to the user e.g. via a message sent to the mobile device associated with the user an alert notifying the user of the approaching time expiration and or offering the user the option to extend the time. If the user selects to extend the time the authorization system may notify the parking meter or the vehicle e.g. which may in turn communicate the notice to the parking meter of the user s request to extend the time remaining on the meter.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Today authorization and or payment systems for mobility services are rapidly evolving. For example many parking establishments and on street parking meters now offer the option of paying by credit card. Moreover longer term subscribers to a parking establishment may be given an RFID tag to place in their vehicles. In this way when the vehicle approaches a gate at the parking establishment authorization may be granted without the user stopping at the parking gate and or inserting a keycard into the parking gate. Similar technology is available to those who frequent toll roads and or congestion roads e.g. where the user pays a fee for driving on the road during specified times to expedite travel times.

Moreover recent advancements in mobile devices e.g. mobile telephones such as smartphones portable computers such as personal digital assistants pocket personal computers tablet computers and or laptop computers etc. have been a catalyst for further advancements in authorization and or payment systems for mobility services. By way of example some parking establishments now offer applications that are installed on the mobile device. When a user approaches a gate at the parking establishment the application communicates with the gate via a communication network e.g. such as a Bluetooth and or Wi Fi communication network a barcode a QR Code and or other unique identifier for example. The parking establishment then determines whether the user has permission to access the garage e.g. because of a monthly subscription the user pays to use the garage and or debits a user account associated with application and grants the user access to the garage.

While these technological advancements were intended to increase user convenience e.g. by eliminating key cards automating payment transactions etc. user adoption has been slow due to the highly fractured nature of mobility services. For example each parking establishment may develop its own application for mobile devices. Thus a user may be required to install multiple applications respectively associated with a different user account to utilize these advancements at various parking establishments. Moreover the user may be required to know which application is utilized at which parking establishment further discouraging a user from adopting this technology.

Accordingly among other things one or more systems and or techniques for a centralized authorization and or payment system is provided for herein. When a user desires to utilize a mobility service user information pertaining to the user e.g. acquired from a mobile device associated with the user and vehicle information pertaining to a vehicle the user is occupying e.g. acquired from the vehicle may be transmitted to an authorization system configured to authorize the mobility service and or to debit an account associated with the user and or vehicle e.g. if a fee is associated with using the mobility service .

As an example consider the scenario where a commercial vehicle that is part of a fleet requires refueling. When a user of the vehicle enters the vehicle the vehicle may communicate with a mobile device associated with the user such as the user s mobile telephone a key fob electronic chip etc. to determine the identity of the user and or to gather other user information. Subsequently when the vehicle approaches a refueling station the vehicle may communicate vehicle information such as a vehicle identification number and user information to the refueling station. The refueling station may then contact an authorization and or payment system e.g. which may be a component of an overall system configured to authorize one or more actions as provided herein to determine whether that particular user is permitted to refuel that particular vehicle based upon the supplied vehicle and user information. If the user vehicle combination is authorized the authorization system may provide authorization to the refueling station and may debit the cost of the fuel to a fleet operator. In this way the fleet operator can monitor cost by restricting which users can refuel which vehicles. By way of example the user could not refuel his her personal vehicle and charge it to the fleet operator because the authorization is based upon both vehicle information and user information.

The example systems and or techniques could be applied to a host of mobility services and or vehicle centric actions e.g. which may also be referred to as transactions as action and or the like and transaction and or the like may be used herein interchangeably . For example such an authorization payment system could be utilized for vehicle refueling transactions e.g. which may include refueling the vehicle with gas hydrogen electrical or other power sources parking transactions toll road transactions congestion zone transactions and or other vehicle related transactions e.g. such as the authorization purchase of in car navigational services entertainment services vehicle ferry fees etc. .

In the example environment the vehicle is configured to communicate information about the vehicle and about an occupant of the vehicle e.g. a user occupying the vehicle to the parking gate via a first communication network not shown in an attempt to gain entry. By way of example in the illustrated embodiment the vehicle communicates a vehicle identification number e.g. VIN and a username of the occupant to the parking gate .

The parking gate may be configured to communicate with an authorization system via a second communication network to acquire authorization to open the gate e.g. or perform some other action e.g. where the authorization system may be a component of an overall system configured to authorize one or more actions as provided herein . By way of example in the illustrated environment the parking gate is configured to supplement the information provided by the vehicle with information pertaining to the parking establishment and or to transmit the supplemented information to the authorization system . In the example environment the supplemented information may comprise among other things the information provided by the vehicle as well as a fee that the parking establishment charges for entry and a parking establishment identification number configured to identify the parking establishment and or parking gate to the authorization system . Although in other embodiments other and or additional information may be supplemented by the parking gate .

The first communication network not shown and the second communication network may utilize any suitable data communication telecommunication wireless wired cabled and or other technology. In practical deployments the first and or second communication networks may utilize any number of communication links. For example the first and or second communication networks may include or be realized as a LAN WAN a WLAN Internet cellular service network paging service network PBX and or the like. Moreover the first and or second communication networks may include a communication link which may be a wired link a wireless link or a link that combines wired and wireless technologies. Typically where the vehicle is configured to communicate with the parking gate such communication may comprise at least some wireless aspects e.g. to avoid requiring the vehicle to provide a physical or cable link between the vehicle and the parking gate . By way of example the vehicle may utilize a Bluetooth Wi Fi or Infrared communication link to wirelessly communicate information between the vehicle and the parking gate . Moreover as will be further described in more detail below the vehicle and or a mobile device associated with the user not shown may communicate directly with the authorization system e.g. as opposed to communicating through the intermediate parking gate . As such a first communication network between the vehicle and the parking gate may not be necessary in at least some embodiments for example. Further a vehicle may be identified to a mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. such as a gate via an infrared transceiver e.g. transmitter and or receiver via a radio frequency identification device via a bar code e.g. displayed via a mobile app. via a QR code and or any other manner of conveying identification information between the mobile device and the vehicle and or between the vehicle and or the mobile device and the mechanism configured to perform the action for example.

The authorization system is configured to determine whether the vehicle user combination is authorized to enter the parking establishment based upon the information supplied by the parking gate . By way of example the user or an entity associated with the user e.g. such as the user s employer may have previously created a user account accessible by the authorization system . The user account may comprise among other things information pertaining to what types of actions are authorized for what user vehicle combinations. Moreover the user and or the entity associated with the user may have associated a debit account e.g. such as a credit card account with the user account. In this way fees and or charges incurred by the user vehicle combination for mobility services may be debited from the debit account and or credited to an account associated with the parking establishment for example.

As an example in the illustrated environment the authorization system may receive the supplemented information supplied by the parking gate and may determine whether to authorize the action e.g. authorizing the parking gate to open and or permitting the vehicle to enter the secured restricted area . For example using the user identification e.g. John123 the authorization system may retrieve the user account and determine whether to authorize the action. This determination may include among other things determining whether the user account authorizes this particular vehicle user combination to park in this parking establishment determining if the user has authorized this particular vehicle user combination to incur a 10 fee for parking in this parking establishment etc. Moreover if the authorization system determines that the user vehicle combination is authorized the authorization system may attempt to debit the debit account associated with the user s account. If the debit transaction is accepted the authorization system may authorize the action e.g. opening the gate and notify the gate of this authorization e.g. including notice of the successful payment transaction . By way of example in the illustrated environment the authorization system is configured to provide information to the parking gate notifying the parking gate that authorization has been approved and providing the parking gate with a transaction identification or authorization code e.g. so that the transaction authorization can be later reviewed . Upon authorization the parking gate may open to allow the vehicle to enter the parking establishment.

It may be appreciated that the example environment is merely intended to provide an overview of the one or more systems and or techniques provided herein. That is additional details may be apparent in view of the following description and or alternative arrangements may be described below that are not mentioned with respect to the example environment . For example in another embodiment the vehicle may communicate with the authorization system . Further details regarding how user information may be communicated to the vehicle may be described below.

The example method begins at and a request to authorize an action is received at . The request typically comprises among other things vehicle identification information pertaining to the vehicle and user identification information pertaining to a user occupying the vehicle. The vehicle identification information may comprise among other things a vehicle identification number VIN a license plate number or other unique information from which to identify the vehicle. The user identification information may comprise among other things a username and or password for a user account an employee identification number a license number and or other unique information from which a user may be identified.

As will be further described in more detail below the request may be received from any of a plurality of sources. By way of example as illustrated in the request for authorization may be generated and or communicated e.g. to the authorization system by a mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. such as a parking gate refueling platform a parking meter a toll road authority a congestion zone authority etc. . In other embodiments the request may be generated and or communicated by the vehicle and or by a mobile device associated with the user e.g. without being sent to the mechanism configured to perform the action . These later embodiments may be more advantageous where the user identification information and or vehicle identification information that is communicated includes passwords and or other sensitive information that the user desires to remain secure and or private for example. As an example a parking gate e.g. in or other mechanism configured to perform the action may communicate to the vehicle a unique identifier of the mechanism. The vehicle may in turn communicate the user identification information vehicle identification information and unique identifier of the mechanism to an authorization system via the request. In this way the authorization system may be provided with information sufficient to determine the action to which the request pertains and user vehicle identification information from which to determine whether to authorize the request for example.

The method further comprises at authorizing the action in response to receiving the request when the user as identified by the user identification information and the vehicle as identified by the vehicle identification information are in combination authorized to perform the requested action. That is the action may be authorized when the user is authorized to perform the action while occupying the particular vehicle that the user is occupying and or when the vehicle is authorized to perform the action while being occupied by the particular user. Further as may be described below authorization of user vehicle combinations may be defined by a user and or an entity associated with the user via an authorization interface e.g. in of the authorization system. Using such an authorization interface the user may specify which actions are permitted to be performed by which user vehicle combinations and or may specify limitations for performing particular actions. For example the user may specify that a refueling mechanism may charge up to 40 to the account when a particular user vehicle combination is requesting fuel and or may specify a grade of fuel that the refueling mechanism is required to use when refueling a particular vehicle. Moreover it may be appreciated that via such an authorization interface a user may be authorized for an action in any vehicle and thus the vehicle identification information may not be pertinent to the authorization. Likewise a vehicle may be authorized for an action regardless of the particular user occupying the vehicle and thus the provided user identification information may not be pertinent to determining authorization e.g. although the user identification information may be recorded for record keeping purposes .

If the user is not authorized to perform the action while occupying the particular vehicle that the user is occupying e.g. and is instead merely authorized when occupying other vehicles and or if the vehicle is merely authorized when other users are occupying the vehicle the authorization may be denied. In one embodiment such a denial may be communicated to the device making the request and or to another device e.g. associated with the request . For example where the vehicle is making the request a notice denying the request may be communicated back to the vehicle e.g. and displayed on a monitor to the user . In another embodiment the mechanism configured to perform the action may have communicated the request to the authorization system for example and the notice denying the request may be communicated to the vehicle and or the mobile device e.g. as opposed to being transmitted back to the mechanism that communicated the request . Moreover where an action is denied the communicated denial may include alternative actions to be performed in view of the denial. For example if the vehicle user combination is denied entry to a parking establishment the denial may comprise suggestions to nearby parking establishments and or different parking levels that the vehicle user combination is authorized to utilize and or may suggest that the user pay by cash. Further the denial may comprise an option for the user to add the vehicle to his her user account e.g. from which authorization is determined and or to override the denial e.g. so that the action can be performed despite the initial denial . In such an embodiment the denial may also request that the user enter authentication credentials to verify that the user has access rights to edit the account and or override the denial.

The method further comprises communicating the authorization to the mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. the refueling mechanism parking gate etc. at . By way of example an authorization system may communicate the authorization directly to the mechanism and or the authorization may be communicated to the mechanism via an intermediary such as through the vehicle and or mobile device e.g. via a Bluetooth Wi Fi or other link established between the mechanism and the vehicle and or mobile device . Further in one embodiment the authorization may be logged to an account associated with the user and or an entity associated with the user e.g. such as an employer of the user . In this way the user and or the entity may review a history of authorizations and or may review locations where actions were performed for example.

Upon receipt of the authorization the mechanism configured to perform the action may proceed to perform the action as authorized by the communicated authorization. For example a fueling platform may proceed to dispense fuel an authorized number of minutes may be applied to a parking meter a parking gate may open a toll gate may open and or a congestion zone gate may open. As another example where the action pertains to an in vehicle mobility service such as a navigation service or entertainment service the service may be initiated based upon receipt of the authorization e.g. to provide for streaming a movie to passengers of the vehicle and or assisting with navigation .

It may be appreciated that in some embodiments as part of the authorization a fee or cost associated with the mobility service may be debited to the user account and or to a debit account e.g. a credit card account or other electronic funds account associated with the user account and or a provisional fee may be applied to the user account e.g. where an exact amount of the fee may be unknown until the action is complete such as in situations where parking establishments charge by the hour and or such as may occur during refueling . By way of example in one embodiment upon receipt of the request to authorize the action an authorization system may access payment information associated with the user account e.g. or user based upon the user identification information and initiate a payment transaction associated with the action. As an example if a parking entity charges a ten dollar fee for parking the authorization system may initiate a payment transaction for ten dollars e.g. debiting ten dollars from the debit account prior to authorizing the transaction.

It may also be appreciated that while such a payment may be initiated prior to approving the authorization e.g. to verify that the requisite funds are available the payment transaction may not be completed and or the funds may not be transferred until the action has been authorized. For example where the action relates to refueling the vehicle the payment transaction may be initiated prior to authorizing the refueling platform to dispense fuel. However the transaction may not be completed until after the authorization has occurred because it may not be known how much fuel is required e.g. and thus dispensed until the authorization has occurred and fuel is dispensed. As another example a parking establishment may charge on an hourly basis. Thus the fee that is debited to the user account may be a function of the number of hours the vehicle remains parked in the parking establishment. As such when the vehicle enters the parking establishment a time of entry may be recorded e.g. as part of the authorization . When the vehicle exits the parking establishment the amount of time spent in the parking establishment may be calculated and a corresponding fee may be debited to the user account. Therefore while an initial authorization may be computed upon entry to the parking establishment the fee may not be debited until much later. In such an embodiment the mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. the parking gate establishment the refueling platform etc. for example may further communicate with the authorization system upon completion to provide the authorization system with an exact amount of the fee to debit a debit account. By way of example during an initial authorization a refueling platform may receive an authorization ID. When the user is finished refueling the vehicle the refueling platform may communicate the authorization ID and final fee amount to the authorization system so that the debit account associated with the user and or vehicle may be debited appropriately.

Moreover it may be appreciated that the user account may be associated with the vehicle as opposed to the user and the payment information may be associated with the vehicle. As an example in a corporate environment the company may establish one user account for a fleet of vehicles. In such an embodiment it may be desirable to identify the user account based upon the vehicle identification information e.g. which may be more static than user identification information if turnover of employees is high and or payment information linked to the account may be payment information associated with the company as opposed to a user operator of the vehicle.

In some embodiments a status of the authorization may be provided to the user via an in vehicle alert system via the mobile device and or via the mechanism configured to perform the action. As an example as part of the authorization the authorization system may communicate with the mobile device and or vehicle requesting that the user acknowledge the transaction e.g. where the user may acknowledge the transaction by selecting an acceptance key on a mobile device and or in vehicle display . Such an acknowledgement may serve as a security measure to verify that user information and or vehicle information has not been stolen.

As another example in some embodiments an initial authorization may provide for authorizing the action for a specified period of time and the provided status may include an alert notifying the user when the specified period of time is within a predetermined time of lapsing e.g. which may include notifying the user after the specified period has lapsed . As an example the initial authorization may relate to authorizing a vehicle to park at a parking meter for thirty minutes and thirty minutes may be applied to the parking meter. When the thirty minutes are about to expire the authorization system and or vehicle for example may communicate to the user e.g. via the mobile device the impeding time lapse. Further in one embodiment such an alert may provide the user with an option to extend the specified period of time. Thus the user may add minutes to the parking meter if the user believes s he may not be able to return to the vehicle within the initially authorized thirty minute time period. If the user selects to extend the specified period of time a request to extend the time on the meter may be transmitted to the parking meter and or to the vehicle e.g. which may in turn communicate the request to the parking meter .

As described above there are numerous configurations and or techniques for communicating user identification information and or vehicle identification information to the authorization system. illustrate two example authorization methods and for communicating the user identification information and vehicle identification information e.g. the request to the authorization system. It may be appreciated that the current instant disclosure including the scope of the claims is not intended to be limited as such to the extent practical as numerous other techniques for communicating such information is also contemplated.

In the example authorization method e.g. which may be referred to as a vehicle centric authorization method begins at and user identification information identifying a user occupying the vehicle is received at the vehicle at . As previously stated the user identification information may include among other things a user account number a username and or password employee identification a license number and or other unique information from which a user can be identified by the authorization system.

To acquire the user identification information the vehicle may be in operable contact with a mobile device associated with the user. By way of example when a user and his her mobile device enter the vehicle the vehicle and the mobile device may establish a communication link from which user identification information may be transmitted from the mobile device to the vehicle. As an example a user s mobile telephone and the vehicle may comprise Bluetooth or other wireless capabilities. When the mobile telephone is within a specified spatial proximity of the vehicle the vehicle may detect the mobile device and detect user identification information associated with the mobile device. In another example the mobile device may comprise among other things a key fob electronic key a near field communication chip an RFID chip or other electronic device from which it can be determined by the vehicle who is occupying the vehicle. Thus the vehicle may be configured to detect such key fobs electronic keys etc. and to identify user identification information associated with the detected key fob electronic key etc. As an example the vehicle may be preprogrammed such that first user identification information is associated with a first key fob and second user identification information is associated with a second key fob. When the first key fob is detected first user identification information e.g. stored in memory in the vehicle may be retrieved. In such an embodiment receiving at the vehicle user identification information may comprise detecting a key fob and retrieving user identification information stored in memory of the vehicle. In other embodiment as least some of the user identification information e.g. such as a username may be transmitted from the mobile device to the vehicle and other user identification information e.g. such as a password may be stored in memory on the vehicle e.g. so that the password is not transmitted wirelessly e.g. such as through an unsecure medium . In one embodiment the user identification information is merely temporarily stored while the user is occupying the vehicle. Thus when the user exits the vehicle and or when an intention to disembark the vehicle is received e.g. such as by locking the vehicle the user identification information may be automatically erased from the vehicle. In another embodiment the user identification information may be stored even when the user is not occupying the vehicle although it may be merely supplied to an authentication system when the user is occupying the vehicle for example.

At in the example method an action to be performed is identified. It may be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity and brevity reference may be made to to describe what type s of actions may be identified.

In one embodiment identifying the action may comprise identifying at the vehicle the action to be performed. By way of example as the vehicle approaches a mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. a parking gate refueling station etc. the vehicle may communicate with the mechanism to identify an action to be performed and or to collect identification information from the mechanism. As an example the vehicle may communicate with the mechanism via a wireless communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. to receive identification information from the mechanism which may be useful and or necessary for an authorization system to determine whether to authorize the particular action that is requested. In another embodiment identifying the action to be performed may comprise a user specifying the action to be performed. For example the user may enter into an in vehicle system a request to open a gate at 6505 May Street in Seattle Wash. Thus in this embodiment the action to be performed is identified at least partially based upon user input.

At in the example method at least some of the received user identification information and vehicle identification information are sent to an authorization system configured to determine whether to authorize the action based upon the user identification information and the vehicle identification information in combination. That is as illustrated in the vehicle identification information and the user identification information are transmitted to the authorization system to determine whether the user vehicle combination are authorized for the action that is being requested.

In the example method where the user identification information is received at the vehicle it may be desirable for the vehicle to send the user identification information and the vehicle identification information to the authorization system e.g. provided the vehicle comprises sufficient communication capabilities for communicating such information to the authorization system . In other embodiments such information may be transmitted to the mobile device and or the mechanism configured to perform the action for example and the mobile device and or the mechanism configured to perform the action may be configured to relay the information to the authorization system.

In one embodiment such as where the vehicle is configured to request the authorization by sending the user identification information and or the vehicle identification information to the authorization system the method may further comprise communicating to the vehicle authorization information authorizing the action to be performed. The vehicle may in turn be configured to transmit the authorization information to the mechanism configured to perform the action for example. In this way the communication for acquiring authorization remains between the vehicle and authorization system for example with the mechanism configured to perform the action merely receiving a notice that the authorization has been approved e.g. and the user account has been debited a specified sum of money for the action .

To acquire the vehicle identification information the mobile device may be in operable contact with the vehicle. By way of example when a user and his her mobile device enter the vehicle the vehicle and the mobile device may establish a communication link from which vehicle identification information may be transmitted from the vehicle to the mobile device. As an example a user s mobile telephone and the vehicle may comprise Bluetooth or other wireless capabilities and when the mobile telephone is within a specified spatial proximity of the vehicle the mobile device may detect the vehicle and detect vehicle identification information associated with the mobile device. In another example the vehicle may comprise among other things a near field communication chip an RFID chip and or other electronic device from which vehicle identification information can be determined by the mobile device. Thus the mobile device may be configured to detect such chips and to identify vehicle identification information associated with the detected chip. As an example the mobile device may be preprogrammed such that first vehicle identification information is associated with a first electronic chip and second vehicle identification information is associated with a second electronic chip. When the first electronic chip is detected first vehicle identification information e.g. stored in memory in the mobile device may be retrieved. In such an embodiment receiving at the mobile device vehicle identification information may comprise detecting an electronic chip comprised within the vehicle and retrieving vehicle identification information stored in memory of the mobile device. In other embodiments at least some of the vehicle identification information may be transmitted from the vehicle to the mobile device and other vehicle identification may be stored in memory on the mobile device.

At in the example method an action to be performed is identified. It may be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity and brevity reference may be made to to describe what type s of actions may be identified.

In one embodiment identifying the action to be performed may comprise identifying at the mobile device the action to be performed e.g. whereas described this relative to the vehicle . By way of example as the vehicle and mobile device approach a mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. a parking gate refueling platform etc. the mobile device may communicate with the mechanism to identify an action to be performed and or to collect identification information from the mechanism. As an example the mobile device may communicate via a wireless communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. to receive identification information from the mechanism which may be useful and or necessary for an authorization system to determine whether to authorize the particular action that is requested. In another embodiment identifying the action to be performed may comprise a user specifying the action to be performed. For example the user may enter into the mobile device a request to open a gate at 6505 May Street in Seattle Wash. Thus in this embodiment the action to be performed is identified at least partially based upon user input.

At in the example method at least some of the received user identification information and vehicle identification information are sent to an authorization system configured to determine whether to authorize the action based upon the user identification information and the vehicle identification information in combination. That is as illustrated in the vehicle identification information and the user identification information are transmitted to the authorization system to determine whether the user vehicle combination are authorized for the action that is being requested.

In the example method where the vehicle identification information is received at the mobile device it may be desirable for the mobile device to send the user identification information and the vehicle identification information to the authorization system e.g. provided the mobile device comprises sufficient communication capabilities for communicating such information to the authorization system . In other embodiments such information may be transmitted to the vehicle and or mechanism configured to perform the action for example and the vehicle and or mechanism may be configured to relay the information to the authorization system.

In one embodiment such as where the mobile device is configured to request the authorization by sending the user identification information and or the vehicle identification information to the authorization system the method may further comprise communicating to the mobile device authorization information authorizing the action to be performed and the mobile device may be configured to transmit the authorization information to the mechanism configured to perform the action for example. In this way the communication for acquiring authorization remains between the mobile device and authorization system for example with the mechanism configured to perform the action merely receiving a notice that the authorization has been approved e.g. and the user account has been debited a specified sum of money for the action .

Authorization to perform action is communicated to the mechanism configured to perform the action so that the mechanism is aware of the authorization. Such an authorization may be communicated to the mechanism via the authorization system and or may be communicated to the mechanism via the mobile device and or vehicle e.g. where the mobile device and or vehicle act as an intermediary between the authorization system and the mechanism configured to perform the action .

The authorization may result from a request for authorization transmitted to an authorization system by the mechanism configured to perform the action the vehicle and or the mobile device for example. As an example in one embodiment user identification information and vehicle identification information may be received by the mechanism configured to perform the action e.g. from the mobile device the vehicle and or a combination of the mobile device and vehicle . The mechanism may be configured to forward send at least some of the received information e.g. along with information pertaining to identifying the mechanism to the authorization system and the authorization system may be configured to authorize or not authorize the action based upon the information received from the mechanism. It may be appreciated that while specific reference is made to the mechanism transmitting the request to the authorization system and receiving the authorization from the authorization system it may be appreciated that as described in previous embodiments the request may be transmitted by the vehicle and or by the mobile device and the authorization may be transmitted to the mechanism via the vehicle and or via the mobile device.

At in the example method the action is allowed to be performed when the authorization is received. That is the mechanism performs the action according to the authorization. By way of example a refueling station may dispense fuel a parking gate may open to allow the vehicle to enter and or exit a parking establishment a toll gate may open to allow the vehicle to enter and or exit and or an authorized number of minutes may be added to a parking meter. Thus upon receipt of the authorization e.g. and payment from the authorization system the mechanism configured to perform the action may proceed to perform the action as specified restricted by the authorization system e.g. where the authorization may include restrictions for the action such as by specifying a number of minutes hours the action may be allowed to occur .

As previously described prior to requesting authentication and or requesting an action to be performed a user an employer etc. may be required to create a user account with the authorization system. Such an account may specify among other things what user vehicle combinations are permitted to utilize what mobility services and may include a debit account to be charged when an action is requested for the user vehicle combination.

The example graphical interface comprises a vehicle column and a user column configured to list the vehicles and users respectively associated with the user account. As an example the vehicle column lists vehicles and . A user with authorized access to the account may add additional vehicles by selecting the symbol for example and or may delete a vehicle by highlighting the vehicle to be deleted and pressing delete on a keyboard or other input device for example. When an intention to add a vehicle to the list is received a second graphical interface not shown may be displayed that request vehicle information about the vehicle to be added. For example the second graphical interface may request the user enter a vehicle identification number and or other information unique to the vehicle. In the illustrated embodiment respective vehicles are identified by a combination of letters and numbers. For example vehicle 1 may be identified by the combination of ABC1234. Likewise vehicle 2 may be identified by the combination of ZYX1234. Thus when vehicle identification information is received by the authentication service vehicle 1 may be identified if the combination of ABC1234 is included in the vehicle identification information for example.

A user with authorized access to the account may also add and or delete users using techniques similar to those described above for adding and or deleting vehicles. For example when an intention to add a user to the user list is received e.g. where the intention may be indicated by the user selecting the symbol a third graphical interface not shown may be displayed that request unique identification information about the user from which a user can be uniquely identified in user identification information received by an authentication system. For example in the illustrated graphical representation user A is identified by the numbers 54654 and user B is identified by the numbers 54655 . Thus if user identification information is received that includes the numbers 54654 the request comprising the user identification information can be correlated to user A.

The example graphical interface further comprises an entry field for billing information. That is as previously described one or more debit accounts or other funds may be associated with the user account for billing the user company etc. when one or more of the authorized users and or authorized vehicles utilize a mobility service that includes a fee. For example in the illustrated interface the user account may be associated with an electronic checking account from which incurred fees may be debited by the authorization system. It may be appreciated that other types of debit accounts such as credit card accounts may also and or instead be linked to the user account.

The example graphical interface further comprises a field for designating which user vehicle combinations are permitted to utilize which mobility services. For example in the illustrated embodiment the user vehicle combination of User A Vehicle 1 is authorized to park at parking meters receive navigation services refuel the vehicle and park at pay to park garages. It may be appreciated that the combination of User A Vehicle 1 may also be permitted to utilize other mobility services such as permitted to park at garage A but parking fees associated with parking at garage A may not be billed to the user account and or to an associated debit account for example. In other embodiments user A vehicle A may be unauthorized to park at garage A e.g. even if an associated fee is not billed to the user account .

As illustrated in the example graphical interface and described above some mobility services may be authorized for some user vehicle combinations but not others. For example user B is authorized to utilize garage A in both vehicle 1 and vehicle 2 while user A is not permitted to utilize garage A in either vehicle. As another example users A and B may be permitted to utilize a navigation service when occupying vehicle 1 but may not be authorized to utilize the navigation service when occupying vehicle 2.

It may be appreciated that such authorization may include authorization limits such as spending limits time limits etc. For example in the illustrated interface user A is not authorized to spend e.g. bill the account more than 20 dollars per fuel transaction whereas user B is authorized to spend up to 40. As another example a user entity responsible for the user account may impose limitations on the amount a user vehicle is authorized to spend on parking in a single transaction a weekly transaction etc. In this way the authorization may be customizable to suit the desires requirements of the user entity responsible for the user account for example.

Upon receipt of the request acknowledgement and identification tag e.g. identifying the refueling platform the vehicle may communicate with an authorization system via a communication network to request authorization for the action. By way of example as illustrated in the request from the vehicle to the authorization system may comprise among other things an identification tag of the refueling platform vehicle identification information e.g. such as a VIN number and or user identification information e.g. such as a username or user number associated with the user .

Upon the authorization system determining that the action is authorized e.g. based upon the vehicle user combination e.g. where authorization for the action to be performed with respect to the vehicle user combination may be specified in a user account associated with the user and or vehicle an authorization notice may be sent to the vehicle and or the refueling platform . For example in the illustrated embodiment the authorization notice is transmitted to the vehicle via the communication network . The vehicle may in turn relay the authorization notice to the refueling platform for example.

When refueling the vehicle is complete the associated refueling fee may be transmitted to the authorization system from the refueling platform and or the vehicle and the user account associated with the vehicle user combination may be debited that corresponding refueling fee.

Although not illustrated the aforementioned techniques and or methods may be further applied to other vehicle centric scenarios where receiving authorization and or a payment prior to and or in conjunction with performing a service and or receiving a good may be useful.

As an example of such a scenario consider a toll roadway or congestion zone. In such a scenario toll road pricing and or congestion zone pricing may be geo fenced. The vehicle or mobile device may comprise a GPS system or other navigational system that provides for determining whether the vehicle is within a geo fenced area and or if the vehicle is approaching a geo fenced area. When a determination is made that the vehicle is within and or approaching a geo fenced area the vehicle and or mobile device may communicate with an authority that manages the toll roadway and or congestion zone and provide time of entry time of exit and or estimated fee. Moreover a payment transaction may be completed by the authorization system based upon the fee associated with the geo fenced area the amount of time spent within the geo fenced area and or the distance the vehicle traveled within the geo fenced area for example.

As another example authorization may comprise authorizing a future action and or providing a recommendation to a user for alternatives when authorization is denied and or when alternatives to the requested action are available. By way of example a user occupying a vehicle may request that the vehicle be routed to a specified venue and the vehicle or mobile device may suggest one or more parking establishments e.g. or other service providers that may be within a specified region of the destination for the vehicle. Thus in such an embodiment the action that is requested may be a routing action for example and in response to the request the vehicle mobile device and or authorization system may respond by providing a set of service providers that may be useful given the received request. Moreover in one embodiment the vehicle and or authorization system may contact one or more of the service providers e.g. parking establishments to determine if the service provider may be of service. For example the vehicle may contact parking establishments to determine if respective parking establishments have spots available. If a service provider responds positively e.g. meaning the service provider may be of service the vehicle and or mobile device may inform the user of the service provider s response and provide the user with an option of using the service provider. By way of example if a parking establishment s response indicates one or more spots are available the vehicle and or mobile device may provide the user with the option to reserve a spot. If the user selects to reserve a spot the vehicle and or mobile device may notify the parking establishment via the authorization system of the user s interest in reserving a spot and may initiate a payment transaction. The vehicle and or user identification information may then be relayed to the garage so that when the vehicle and user arrive at the garage the vehicle may promptly enter the parking establishment and obtain the reserved spot.

As another example if the user vehicle requests an action to be performed by a first parking establishment for example the authorization system vehicle and or mobile device may notify the user of other parking establishments spatially approximate to the user s location that may be more competitively priced may have a higher quantity of spots available and or may have received better user reviews.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art may recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art may realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering may be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it may be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications may occur to others skilled in the art based at least in part upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

