---

title: Electronic keyboard musical instrument
abstract: An electronic keyboard musical instrument, including: a key; a mass body driven by a depressed key for pivotally moving in a movement region between a rest position and an end position; a back check portion to back check the mass body; a position detecting portion to detect a position of the mass body; and a controller for controlling silencing of a tone, such that the currently generated tone is silenced when the mass body reaches a preset tone silencing position in its movement from the end position to the rest position, wherein the controller is configured to change the tone silencing position on the basis of respective times required for the mass body to pass through first and second sub regions of the movement region in the movement of the mass body, the second sub region being located nearer to the rest position than the first sub region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08653353&OS=08653353&RS=08653353
owner: Yamaha Corporation
number: 08653353
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120919
---
The present application claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 204468 which was filed on Sep. 20 2011 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to an electronic keyboard musical instrument configured to execute a tone generation control using position information of a mass body.

In an electronic keyboard musical instrument using an action mechanism there is conventionally known the one configured to execute a musical tone control utilizing position information of a key. For performing a more real musical tone control there is known the one that utilizes position information of a mass body hammer as disclosed in the following Patent Literature 1.

In the musical instrument disclosed in the Patent Literature 1 positions of the hammer including a back checking start position at which the hammer starts to be back checked and a back checking end position at which the hammer is released from a back checked state are successively obtained and are utilized in the control.

In the musical instrument disclosed in the Patent Literature 1 however the control is performed on the condition that the back checking works or acts. Further in the disclosed musical instrument a relationship between the back checking and timing of tone silencing is not clear.

In general the back checking does not always work. More specifically the state of back checking effective or non effective and the degree of action of back checking vary depending upon a key depression strength key depression velocity and a key release strength key release velocity . Therefore where the control is uniformly performed appropriate tone silencing cannot be performed. In particular in some instances tone silencing is performed at inappropriate timing.

In an instance in which back checking works to a significant or sufficient extent such as an instance in which a key is depressed at a medium depression velocity such as mezzo forte or mezzo piano and the key is then released slowly the hammer tends to return slowly. In such an instance where a tone is controlled to be silenced at a uniform or constant tone silencing position a performer of the musical instrument may feel that tone silencing is delayed and may have an awkward or unnatural feeling as compared with an acoustic piano. Accordingly there is room for improvement in the tone silencing control in accordance with the state of back checking for attaining a more delicate musical tone control.

The present invention has been developed to solve the conventionally experienced problems described above and provides an electronic keyboard musical instrument capable of rendering tone silencing timing close or similar to natural one while taking the state of back checking into account.

More specifically the present invention provides an electronic keyboard musical instrument comprising 

a mass body HM provided for the key and configured to be driven by a depressing operation of the key so as to pivotally move in a movement region between a rest position and an end position 

a back check portion configured to back check the mass body which moves from the end position to the rest position 

a controller configured to generate a musical tone in accordance with the depression operation of the key and configured to control silencing of the musical tone on the basis of the position of the mass body detected by the position detecting portion such that the musical tone that is being generated for the key which corresponds to the mass body is silenced when the mass body reaches a preset tone silencing position KH in a movement of the mass body from the end position to the rest position 

wherein the controller is configured to change the tone silencing position on the basis of a time TA required for the mass body to pass through a first sub region RA of the movement region and a time TB required for the mass body to pass through a second sub region RB of the movement region in the movement of the mass body from the end position to the rest position the second sub region being located nearer to the rest position than the first sub region.

The reference signs in the brackets attached to respective constituent elements in the above description correspond to reference signs used in the following embodiment to identify the respective constituent elements. The reference sign attached to each constituent element indicates a correspondence between each element and its one example and each element is not limited to the one example.

In the vertical sectional view of showing a rear portion a principal portion of a keyboard structural portion of an electronic keyboard musical instrument according to one embodiment of the invention one key and an action mechanism ACT corresponding to the key are particularly shown.

In the electronic keyboard musical instrument a plurality of keys white keys and black keys are arranged in parallel with each other. Each key is disposed so as to be pivotable clockwise and counterclockwise in about a key fulcrum not shown . The right hand side in corresponds to a performer s side and a front side while the left hand side in is a rear side. A front portion not illustrated in of the key is depressed and released. The action mechanism ACT is provided above a rear end portion of each key .

The action mechanism ACT mainly includes a whippen a hammer HM which is a hammer assembly and which is a mass body and a jack . The whippen is configured to be driven so as to be pushed up by an associated key . A jack is supported by the whippen via a jack flange so as to be pivotable clockwise and counterclockwise in .

A back check wire BC rod is provided at a front end portion free end portion of the whippen so as to be inclined forward. At an upper end of the back check wire there is provided a back check for elastically receiving a catcher of the hammer HM. The catcher and the back check constitute a back check portion.

The hammer HM mainly includes a butt and a hammer shank . The butt is provided so as to be pivotable clockwise and counterclockwise in about a hammer pivot shaft . In a non key depression state shown in the hammer HM undergoes a force in a clockwise direction in by its own weight.

In the non key depression state the rear end portion of the key is in contact with a key stopper so as to define an initial position of the key while the whippen is in contact with a capstan portion so as to define an initial position of the whippen . An initial position of the hammer HM is defined by a contact of a backward extending portion of the hammer HM with a stopper . At the initial position of the hammer HM the jack receives a force in a counterclockwise direction from a spring such that a struck portion of the hammer HM is in contact with an upper end of the jack .

A sensor unit is fixedly disposed with respect to the present musical instrument via an attachment member . An optical sensor is provided on a sensor board in the sensor unit . The optical sensor is provided for each of the keys . On the other hand at a lower rear portion of the butt of the hammer HM a reflection surface is provided so as to be opposed to the optical sensor . On the reflection surface a gray black and white scale not shown is formed. In the gray scale a plurality of black color portions each having an isosceles triangular shape that is upwardly convex are arranged in parallel with each other on a white color surface as shown in .

The optical sensor is configured to output a signal in accordance with an amount of light reflected by the reflection surface . A pattern shown in is formed on the reflection surface such that the amount of the reflected light on the reflection surface successively changes namely increases or decreases as the hammer HM pivots counterclockwise in from the initial position by being driven by a depressing operation of the associated key . Accordingly the optical sensor is configured to successively detect a pivot position of the hammer HM by the amount of the reflected light and functions as a position detecting portion. The position detection by the optical sensor has a linear characteristic. The optical sensor may be replaced with any other sensors as long as the sensors are capable of detecting the position of the hammer HM. For instance there may be employed other than the optical sensor a detecting mechanism such as a magnetic pattern detector.

An upper limit stopper for the hammer HM is fixedly disposed with respect to the present musical instrument via an upper bent portion of the attachment member and an attachment piece fixed to the upper bent portion . A limit position of the hammer HM in a pivot direction corresponding to a key depression direction is defined by a contact of an abutment portion of the butt with the upper limit stopper . A limit position of the key in the key depression direction is defined by a contact of the front portion of the key with a key depression stopper not shown provided below the front portion of the key .

However when a key depression force with which the key is depressed is strong namely the key depression force is equal to or greater than a force causing a pianissimo sound the hammer HM slightly returns in a return direction toward the initial position after the contact of the abutment portion and the upper limit stopper . In a state in which the key is kept depressed the catcher is received by the back check to establish a back checking state and the back checking state is maintained. In a rapid rendition of a passage or successive repeated weak key depressions there may be cases in which the abutment portion does not come into contact with the upper limit stopper and the hammer HM returns to the initial position shown in without the abutment portion and the upper limit stopper coming into contact with each other and without the hammer HM being back checked.

In the following explanation directions of a pivotal movement of each of the key and the hammer HM are referred to as follows. For each of the key and the hammer HM the position in the non key depression state corresponds to an initial position. A direction in which each of the key and the hammer HM pivots from the initial position in a key depression forward stroke corresponds to a forward direction of the pivotal movement of each of the key and the hammer HM. A direction in which each of the key and the hammer HM returns to the initial position corresponds to a reverse direction in the pivotal movement of each of the key and the hammer HM.

Here the position of the key in the initial state shown in is referred to as a rest position of the key . The position of the hammer HM in the initial state shown in is referred to as a rest position of the hammer HM. The rest position of the key is a position of the key in the non key depression state. The rest position of the hammer HM is a position of the hammer HM in the non key depression state. Further an end position of the pivotal movement in the forward direction of the key is referred to as an end position of the key and an end position of the pivotal movement in the forward direction of the hammer HM is referred to as an end position of the hammer HM. In other words the end position of the hammer HM is a position of the hammer HM at a time when the abutment portion of the butt comes into contact with the upper limit stopper and is a limit pivot position of the hammer HM in the forward direction i.e. a position of the hammer HM at a time when the hammer HM pivots to the largest extent in the forward direction .

The structure of the electronic keyboard musical instrument when the hammer HM is located at the rest position and at the end position will be explained. In the hammer HM located at the rest position is illustrated by the solid line while the hammer HM located at the end position is illustrated by the long dashed double short dashed line. That is the butt of the hammer HM located at the end position is in contact with the upper limit stopper and respective positions of the hammer shank and the backward extending portion of the hammer HM located at the end position are defined on the basis of the position of the butt which is in contact with the upper limit stopper . For components of the electronic keyboard musical instrument other than the hammer HM positions of the respective components when the hammer HM is located at the rest position are illustrated by the solid line.

In the present embodiment the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM is made equal to the same direction as the axial direction of the hammer shank indicated by the long dashed short dashed line in . A vector that extends in the longitudinal direction is referred to as an axial vector. The scalar of this axial vector is maximum e.g. equal to scalar corresponding to 1 when the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM coincides with the horizontal direction. The scalar of the axial vector becomes smaller as the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM approaches the vertical direction and is minimum e.g. equal to scalar corresponding to 0 when the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM coincides with the vertical direction. The axial vector at a time when the hammer HM is located at the rest position is indicated by R in while the axial vector at a time when the hammer HM is located at the end position is indicated by E in . The longitudinal direction of the hammer HM and the axial direction of the hammer shank need not necessarily coincide with each other.

Where the axial vector of the hammer HM is defined as described above the scalar of the axial vector when the hammer HM is located at the end position is substantially maximum e.g. equal to scalar corresponding to substantially 1 as shown in and the scalar of the axial vector when the hammer HM is located at the rest position is smaller than that when the hammer HM is located at the end position. This indicates that the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM when the hammer HM is located at the end position is closer to the horizontal direction than the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM when the hammer HM is located at the rest position. In the electronic keyboard musical instrument according to the present embodiment the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM i.e. the direction of the axial vector when the hammer HM is located at the end position is substantially parallel to the horizontal direction. The longitudinal direction of the hammer HM is substantially parallel to the horizontal direction means that an angle formed by the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM and the horizontal direction on the vertical plane is held within a range of 0 20 . In other words an angle of the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM with respect to the horizontal direction on the vertical plane is not smaller than 0 and not large than 20 in the vertically upward direction or in the vertically downward direction.

In the electronic keyboard musical instrument constructed as described above the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM when the hammer HM is located at the end position substantially coincides with the horizontal direction and therefore the structure of the hammer HM in the present embodiment is similar to that of a hammer in an action mechanism of a grand piano. However the action mechanism ACT in the electronic keyboard musical instrument according to the present embodiment is similar to that of an upright piano. Accordingly it is possible to enhance manufacturing efficiency by reducing differences in construction between the grand piano and the upright piano while enjoying constructional advantages of the grand piano. Although a delay of tone silencing timing described below may occur due to employment of the structure described above in the present embodiment the delay of tone silencing timing is eliminated in the present embodiment owing to a later explained algorithm by a CPU .

The axial vector of the hammer HM is defined as described above. However the axial vector of the hammer HM is actually a vector whose start point coincides with the center of gravity of the hammer HM and which extends in a direction of a tangent to a pivot locus formed by the center of gravity when the hammer HM pivots about the hammer pivot shaft . The scalar of this vector is maximum e.g. equal to scalar corresponding to 1 when the axial vector extends in the horizontal direction and is minimum e.g. equal to scalar corresponding to 0 when the axial vector extends in the vertical direction. Since the direction of the axial vector substantially coincides with the longitudinal direction of the hammer HM the axial vector is explained as described above for the sake of convenience.

The motion of the action mechanism ACT constructed as described above will be explained. When the key is depressed from the non key depression state the capstan portion located on the rear end portion of the key pushes up the whippen whereby the jack moves upward so as to push up the struck portion of the butt . As a result the hammer HM pivots in the forward direction counterclockwise about the hammer pivot shaft .

Subsequently the jack pivots clockwise and the upper end portion of the jack removes away from the struck portion of the butt so as to escape therefrom. When the key is depressed with an ordinary or medium force ordinary or medium depression or depressed with a strong force strong depression the hammer HM freely pivots after the escapement and the abutment portion comes into contact with the upper limit stopper and then is rebounded therefrom. When the key is depressed with a weak force weak depression whose magnitude is smaller than a specific or certain magnitude however the hammer HM does not come into contact with the upper limit stopper .

When the hammer HM pivots in the reverse direction after the escapement the catcher of the hammer HM is elastically received by the back check so that the back checking state is established. As long as the key depression state is maintained the entirety of the action mechanism ACT is stabilized in that posture.

The motion of the action mechanism ACT from key depression to key release is diverse and the behavior of the hammer HM varies depending upon a key depression velocity and a key release velocity. There may be an instance in which the hammer HM returns to the rest position without being back checked. Further there may be an instance in which in spite of the back checking state the catcher comes into contact with the back check but fails to be stopped by the back check and the catcher slides on the back check and the hammer HM immediately returns to the rest position.

Depending upon the state of back checking the speed of returning of the hammer HM thereafter is changed. In general the silencing of the musical tone is performed at timing when the hammer HM returns to a prescribed position. Accordingly where the return speed of the hammer HM is changed the tone silencing timing is particularly influenced. In view of this in the present embodiment the tone silencing timing is switched or changed while considering the state of back checking.

The musical instrument of the present embodiment is constituted such that a ROM a RAM a timer an operating portion a storage section various interfaces I F an A D converting section a display section a tone source circuit and an effect circuit are connected to the CPU via a bus . The timer is connected to the CPU and a sound system is connected to the tone source circuit via the effect circuit .

An analog signal from the optical sensor is converted into a digital detection signal in the A D converting section and is supplied to the CPU . The CPU controls the musical instrument as a whole. The ROM stores various programs to be executed by the CPU and various table data. The RAM temporarily stores performance data various flags buffer data computation results etc. The timer measures an interrupt time in timer interrupt processing and various times. The storage section stores various application programs including the control programs described above various music data various data etc.

The tone source circuit converts into a musical tone signal performance data based on the detection signal from the A D converting section pre set performance data etc. The effect circuit gives various effects to the musical tone signal inputted from the tone source circuit . The sound system converts the musical tone signal or the like inputted from the effect circuit into an acoustic sound.

In the present embodiment not the position of each key but the position of each hammer HM is detected by the corresponding optical sensor and there is executed a control of generation and silencing of a musical tone for each key on the basis of the detection result. The concept shown in is common to all of the hammers HM. The upward direction in corresponds to the forward direction.

The movement region in which the hammer HM pivotally moves is a stroke from the rest position REST to the end position END . This movement region is divided into a plurality of six sub regions. Positions KH corresponding to boundaries of the respective sub regions include a position KH a position KH a position KH a position KH and a position KH arranged in the order of description from a side nearer to the rest position a shallower side of the stroke namely from the lower side in . The CPU judges on the basis of a change of the detection signal of the optical sensor in which one of the forward direction and the reverse direction the hammer HM has passed the boundary of each sub region whereby a current status of the hammer HM is defined. The status of the hammer HM is represented by numbers from 0 to 10 . The status may be represented as ST .

When the key is slightly depressed from the non key depression state for instance the status of the hammer HM becomes the status 0. Where the hammer HM crosses the position KH in the forward direction of the key depression the status becomes the status 1. Where the hammer HM crosses the position KH in the forward direction when the hammer is in the status 1 the status becomes the status 2. On the other hand where the hammer HM crosses the position KH in the reverse direction when the hammer is in the status 1 the status becomes the status 10 not the status 0. Accordingly each of the status 0 the status 1 the status 2 the status 3 the status 4 and the status 5 is a status which is established when the hammer HM has crossed each position KH in the forward direction while each of the status 6 the status 7 the status 8 the status 9 and the status 10 is a state which is established when the hammer HM has crossed each position KH in the reverse direction. Information as to the status is stored in the RAM and is successively updated.

Basically in the present embodiment generation of a musical tone having a pitch of the associated key is initiated when the hammer HM passes in the forward direction a tone generating position set at the position KH for instance . The musical tone that is being generated is silenced or stopped when the hammer HM passes in the reverse direction the position KH which is a pre set tone silencing position. However where a prescribed condition is satisfied namely where an affirmative decision YES is made in step S in the flow chart of which will be explained the tone silencing position is changed from the position KH to the position KH.

The tone silencing corresponds to initiation of release of the generated musical tone. The position KH is a position which is distant from the rest position namely which is distant from the shallower side in the stroke by a distance corresponding to 95 of the entire stroke for instance. The position KH and the position KH are positions which are distant from the rest position namely which are distant from the shallower side in the stroke by a distance corresponding to 45 of the entire stroke and a distance corresponding to 60 of the entire stroke respectively. However those distances are examples and may be changed depending upon types or models of the musical instrument and may be variable.

The tone silencing processing is executed by the CPU as a part of processing for ordinary performance namely a part of processing for real time performance. In the real time performance processing tone generation processing is executed separately from the tone silencing processing. That is there are detected by the optical sensor a key code tone pitch information a velocity tone volume information and a note on operation corresponding to a depressed key via the hammer HM. The detection signal is sent to the tone source circuit and a musical tone of the designated timbre is reproduced. The tone silencing processing of is executed for each key concurrently with the tone generation processing described above.

Initially in step S it is judged whether the status is the status ST 0 status 0 or not. It is then judged in step S whether the status has changed or not. Where the status has changed a time when the status has changed is obtained. step S . This time is used for measuring a duration of time during which each status is kept established. In the time measuring the timer and the CPU cooperate to execute timer interrupt processing not shown .

Subsequently in step S the processing is branched depending upon a value n of the changed status ST. Where the value n is other than 8 ST 8 and 10 ST 10 the flow goes back to step S. That is the tone silencing processing is not implemented. Where the value n is equal to 10 ST 10 it means that the hammer HM has currently passed in the reverse direction the position KH which is the pre set tone silencing position. Accordingly the flow goes to step S in which it is judged whether or not the number of currently generated tones at a pitch corresponding to the depressed key is not smaller than 1.

Where the number of currently generated tones is 0 the flow goes back to step S. Where the number of currently generated tones is not smaller than 1 all of the same notes that are currently being generated are controlled to be silenced i.e. issuance of note off step S . In other words where the key is successively or repeatedly depressed without returning the key to the rest position for instance two or more of the note ons at the same pitch may be rising. In this instance all of the note ons are silenced or stopped at a time. After step S the flow goes back to the processing in S.

Where it is judged in step S that the value n is equal to 8 ST 8 it means that the hammer HM has currently passed the position KH in the reverse direction. Accordingly the flow goes to step S in which it is judged whether or not the number of currently generated tones at a pitch corresponding to the depressed key is not smaller than 1. Where the number of currently generated tones is 0 the flow goes back to step S. Where the number of currently generated tones is not smaller than 1 the flow goes to step S.

As shown in a sub region between the position KH and the position KH is referred to as a first sub region RA while a sub region between the position KH and the position KH is referred to as a second sub region RB. The second sub region RB is a region which is located one of opposite sides of the first sub region RA nearer to the rest position so as to be adjacent to the first sub region RA. In particular in at least a part of the first sub region RA the hammer HM can be back checked. In a movement of the hammer HM from the end position to the rest position a time required for the hammer HM to pass through the first sub region RA is referred to as a time TA while a time required for the hammer HM to pass through the second sub region RB is referred to as a time TB.

In step S of it is judged whether the following condition TA tA is established by comparing the above indicated time TA with a prescribed first value tA in the movement of the hammer HM in the reverse direction. Further in step S it is judged whether the following condition TB

As a situation in which the conditions in step S are satisfied there is considered a situation in which the back checking works to a significant extent such as an instance wherein a key depressing and releasing operation is made in which the key depressed with an ordinary or medium force ordinary or medium depression is released slowly. Where the back checking works to a sufficient extent static friction strongly acts between the catcher and the back check whereby returning of the hammer HM thereafter to the rest position tends to be delayed as compared with a case in which the catcher and the back check engages with each other in a sliding state. Therefore where the tone silencing is executed uniformly at the position KH the performer may feel that the timing of tone silencing is delayed. In the present embodiment however the tone silencing position is temporarily changed to the position located on a deeper side in the key depression stroke as described above so that the delay of the tone silencing timing is avoided.

According to the present embodiment the tone silencing timing is appropriately corrected in a situation in which returning of the hammer HM tends to be delayed due to the back checking thereby rendering the tone silencing timing close or similar to natural one while taking the back checking state into consideration. Here to correct the tone silencing timing means to eliminate lack of sharpness or distinctness that would be caused by a tone silencing control executed in accordance with an actual movement of the hammer HM.

According to the present embodiment by judging in which one of the forward direction and the reverse direction the hammer HM has passed the boundary of each of the plurality of sub regions it is possible to obtain the movement direction of the hammer HM and the current position of the hammer HM. Therefore it is possible to deal with a situation in which the movement direction of the hammer HM changes on the way back toward the rest position such as a situation in which the key is successively or repeatedly depressed enabling an appropriate tone silencing control.

The illustrated manner of changing the tone silencing position is one example and is not limited thereto. Further the tone silencing position may be changed to a position other than the position KH. For instance the tone silencing position may be changed to a prescribed position between the position KH and the position KH where the conditions in step S are satisfied.

In the illustrated embodiment the time TA required for the hammer HM to pass the first sub region RA and the time TB required for the hammer HM to pass the second sub region RB are counted and the tone silencing timing is changed using the time TA and the time TB. Both of the time TA and the time TB may not be necessarily counted. For instance only the time TA required for the hammer HM to pass the first sub region RA may be counted and the back checking state may be obtained using the time TA so as to change the tone silencing timing. In the arrangement the tone silencing timing can be advanced as compared with an arrangement in which the tone silencing timing is changed using both of the time TA and the time TB.

In the illustrated embodiment the time TA is counted as the time required for the hammer HM to pass the first sub region RA and the time TB is counted as the time required for the hammer HM to pass the second sub region RB. It is not necessarily needed to count the time required for the hammer HM to pass the entirety of the first sub region RA or the second sub region RB. For instance where the condition TA tA is satisfied when the hammer HM is located in the movement from the end position to the rest position at a position within the first sub region RA which position is nearer to the end position than the position KH that is one of opposite ends of the first sub region TA that is on the side of the rest position the tone silencing control may be executed at timing which is earlier than timing when the hammer HM reaches the position KH e.g. at timing when the condition TA tA is satisfied. In this instance a time during which the hammer HM is kept located in the first sub region RA and which has elapsed before the condition TA tA is satisfied is counted. The arrangement also ensures an appropriate tone silencing control because the tone silencing timing can be advanced from the timing when the hammer HM is located at the position KH to timing when the condition TA tA is satisfied.

In the judgments in S as to the time TA and the time TB the time TA or the time TB may be compared with not only the single prescribed value to or tB but also prescribed values set in steps in each of the sub regions RA RB whereby the tone silencing position may be changed in steps in accordance with comparison results. That is the tone silencing position may be variable depending upon the conditions to be satisfied.

The two regions relating to changing of the tone silencing position are not limited to the sub regions RA RB in view of application to not only the situation in which the back checking works to a sufficient extent but also various situations.

In the present embodiment the sound generation is triggered by the detection signal indicative of the movement of the hammer HM detected by the optical sensor . A sensor configured to detect an operation of the key may be provided and initiation of the tone generation may be triggered by a depressing operation of the key detected by the sensor.

The keyboard structure shown in is based on a structure that employs a technical concept of a previously filed application by the assignee of the present application and overcomes disadvantages thereof. The structure shown in employs a hammer structure close to that of a grand piano GP structure while employing the hammer action of the upright piano UP structure.

Accordingly there is ensured an advantage that the height of the keyboard structure can be reduced. However the upright piano UP structure has an intrinsic disadvantage that the capability of successive key striking or depressing is inferior to the grand piano GP structure and still suffers from a drawback that mere employment of the structure of does not realize a quick return mechanism which enables tone regeneration. By employing the algorithm according to the present invention however the drawback described above is mitigated.

Therefore even if a keyboard structure is employed in which a position sensor is provided in the already existing upright piano UP structure instead of the structure of the tone silencing can be executed at timing earlier than tone silencing timing release timing realized by employing the upright piano UP structure by employing the algorithm according to the present invention. Therefore even if the already existing upright piano UP structure is employed it is possible to ensure a release timing control which is as clear distinct as or clearer more distinct than that of the grand piano GP structure. In other words the tone silencing timing in the upright piano UP structure becomes equal to or earlier than the tone silencing timing in the grand piano GP structure. That is it is possible to ensure a musical tone control in successive key striking or depressing tone generation gone silencing gone generation . The tone silencing is advanced in the processing in steps S S S of thereby realizing natural release similar or equal to the grand piano GP structure. It is possible to physically gain time before tone is regenerated namely before the key is subsequently depressed after it has been once depressed in successive key striking or depressing.

Since it is possible to gain time before the tone regeneration as described above the capstan portion moves downward as the key returns to the initial position and at the same time the jack also moves downward so that the jack can get under the struck portion of the butt on the side nearer to the hammer pivot shaft owing to the action of the spring . Subsequently release is initiated immediately before the jack gets under the struck portion of the butt and there is a slight time before the key returns further after initiation of the release. Within this time preparation of next tone generation i.e. the jack gets under the struck portion and tone processing upon key release is executed at earlier timing is enabled. In other words the tone generation preparation tends to be easily made thereby making the next tone generation smooth. Accordingly the volume change in performance is made smooth and sharpness in performance is improved.

In the present embodiment the first sub region RA is adjacent to the second sub region RB. The first sub region RA may not be adjacent to the second sub region RB. Another sub region may exist between the first sub region RA and the second sub region RB.

In the illustrated embodiment the pre set tone silencing position is the position KH and the changed tone silencing position the tone silencing position after change is the position KH which is located nearer to the end position than the position KH. The tone silencing position after change may be set to a position which is located nearer to the rest position than the pre set tone silencing position. In this instance the pre set tone silencing position is utilized where the back checking sufficiently works on the hammer HM such as a case in which the key is depressed at a medium depression velocity such as mezzo forte or mezzo piano and the key is then released slowly. In a case other than the above i.e. in a case in which the key is released quickly the tone silencing position after change is utilized. Thus the tone silencing timing is delayed or made later in the case in which the key is released quickly whereby an appropriate tone silencing control can be executed.

In the first sub region RA that includes in an entirety or a part thereof a back checking range in which the hammer HM can be back checked the position of the other of the opposite ends that is on the side of the end position is distant from the end position by a specific distance which is not zero as shown in . Further in the first sub region RA that includes in an entirety or a part thereof the back checking range the position of the one of the opposite ends that is on the side of the rest position is distant from the rest position by a specific distance which is not zero. Accordingly it is possible to detect the time TA required by the hammer HM to pass the first sub region RA in the reverse direction on the basis of a time point when the hammer HM passed the other of the opposite ends of the first sub region RA that is on the side of the end position and a time point when the hammer HM passed the one of the opposite ends of the first sub region RA that is on the side of the rest position. Therefore the state of back checking can be grasped.

