---

title: Communication system
abstract: Methods and systems for integrated communications are provided. In one embodiment, a user input is received via a user interface. Media data is received in response to receiving the user input. The media data is streamed to one or more communication system users. In some embodiments, the media data is posted to a shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel. Other methods and systems are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313633&OS=09313633&RS=09313633
owner: Talko Inc.
number: 09313633
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121010
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 545 346 entitled ENHANCED COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SHARING filed on 10 Oct. 2011 the entire disclosures of all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to communications systems and more particularly relates to multi data type communications systems.

A variety of communications systems and mechanisms are frequently used in both business related and personal interactions. The communications systems that are available can often shape the way people interact with one another. Communication and expression may often have to be forced through an ineffective communication medium. At times the restrictions provided by the modality of communication such as audio only text only two party only synchronous only or asynchronous only etc. can place limitations and restrictions on the expression of ideas. The result may be that individuals may be left with an incomplete or inadequate ability for expression communication or interaction.

According to a first implementation a method may include receiving a user input via a user interface. The method may also include receiving media data in response to receiving the user input. The method may also include streaming the media data to one or more communication system users. The method may further include posting the media data to a shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel.

One or more of the following features may be included. The user input may include an associated input duration time period. Receiving the media data may include receiving the media data for the input duration. The method may also include receiving an input modification. Receiving the media data in response to the input modification may include receiving the media data for a time period greater than the input duration.

The media data may include audio media data. The media data may include visual media data. Receiving the media data in response to the input may include receiving digital image data. Receiving the media data in response to the input modification may include receiving video data.

Streaming the media data may include streaming the media data to at least a second communication system user. Posting the media data may include simultaneously posting the media data to the shared virtual space associated with the communication system channel Streaming the media data may include transmitting the media data as low latency packetized data transmissions.

The method may also include receiving a transmission from a second communication system user. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may not time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Posting the media data may include sequentially posting the media data with respect to a post associated with the transmission from the second communication system user. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Streaming the media data may include combining the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a multi directional streaming media data transmission. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Posting the media data may include posting the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a combined media data post.

According to another implementation a computer program product may include a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including receiving a user input via a user interface. The operations may also include receiving media data in response to receiving the user input. The operations may also include streaming the media data to one or more communication system users. The operations may further include posting the media data to a shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel.

One or more of the following features may be included. The user input may include an associated input duration time period. Receiving the media data may include receiving the media data for the input duration. Instructions may also be included for receiving an input modification. Receiving the media data in response to the input modification may include receiving the media data for a time period greater than the input duration.

The media data may include audio media data. The media data may include visual media data. Receiving the media data in response to the input may include receiving digital image data. Receiving the media data in response to the input modification may include receiving video data.

Streaming the media data may include streaming the media data to at least a second communication system user. Posting the media data may include simultaneously posting the media data to the shared virtual space associated with the communication system channel. Streaming the media data may include transmitting the media data as low latency packetized data transmissions.

Instructions may also be included for receiving a transmission from a second communication system user. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may not time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Posting the media data may include sequentially posting the media data with respect to a post associated with the transmission from the second communication system user. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Streaming the media data may include combining the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a multi directional streaming media data transmission. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Posting the media data may include posting the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a combined media data post.

According to another implementation a computing system may include at least one processor. The at least one processor may be configured for receiving a user input via a user interface. The at least one processor may also be configured for receiving media data in response to receiving the user input. The at least one processor may also be configured for streaming the media data to one or more communication system users. The at least one processor may further be configured for posting the media data to a shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel.

One or more of the following features may be included. The user input may include an associated input duration time period. Receiving the media data may include receiving the media data for the input duration. The at least one processor may be further configured for receiving an input modification. Receiving the media data in response to the input modification may include receiving the media data for a time period greater than the input duration.

The media data may include audio media data. The media data may include visual media. Receiving the media data in response to the input may include receiving digital image data. Receiving the media data in response to the input modification may include receiving video data.

Streaming the media data may include streaming the media data to at least a second communication system user. Posting the media data may include simultaneously posting the media data to the shared virtual space associated with the communication system channel. Streaming the media data may include transmitting the media data as low latency packetized data transmissions.

The at least one processor may be further configured for receiving a transmission from a second communication system user. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may not time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Posting the media data may include sequentially posting the media data with respect to a post associated with the transmission from the second communication system user. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Streaming the media data may include combining the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a multi directional streaming media data transmission. Receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with the streaming the media data. Posting the media data may include posting the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a combined media data post.

According to another implementation a method may include receiving a plurality of media items from a communication system. The plurality of media items may include at least audio media items and visual media items. The method may also include providing a user interface including a time wise sequence display of the audio media items and a time wise sequence display of the visual media items. The method may also include accessing the audio media item including sequencing the display of the visual media items based on the display of the audio media items. The method may further include accessing the visual media items including sequencing the display of the visual media items independently of the display of audio media items.

One or more of the following features may be included. The audio media items may include a plurality of audio segments corresponding to respective audio transmissions by one or more users associated with a channel of the communication system. At least a portion of the audio segments may correspond to a multi party conversation. The multi party conversation may include an ongoing multi party conversation. Accessing the audio media items may include accessing one or more audio segments associated with a prior portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Accessing the audio media items may include accessing a streaming audio sequence associated with a current portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Each audio segment may include an associated identifier of a creator of the audio segment.

Receiving the visual media item may include displaying the visual media item based on at least in part a minimum display time for received visual media items.

According to another implementation a computer program product may include a non transitory computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations include receiving a plurality of media items from a communication system the plurality of media items including at least audio media items and visual media items. The operations may also include providing a user interface including a time wise sequence display of the audio media items and a time wise sequence display of the visual media items. The operations may also include accessing the audio media item including sequencing the display of the visual media items based on the display of the audio media items. The operations may further include accessing the visual media items including sequencing the display of the visual media items independently of the display of audio media items.

One or more of the following features may be included. The audio media items may include a plurality of audio segments corresponding to respective audio transmissions by one or more users associated with a channel of the communication system. At least a portion of the audio segments may correspond to a multi party conversation. The multi party conversation may include an ongoing multi party conversation. Accessing the audio media items may include accessing one or more audio segments associated with a prior portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Accessing the audio media items may include accessing a streaming audio sequence associated with a current portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Each audio segment may include an associated identifier of a creator of the audio segment.

Receiving the visual media item may include displaying the visual media item based on at least in part a minimum display time for received visual media items.

According to another implementation a computing system includes at least one processor. The at least one processor may be configured for receiving a plurality of media items from a communication system the plurality of media items including at least audio media items and visual media items. The at least on processor may also be configured for providing a user interface including a time wise sequence display of the audio media items and a time wise sequence display of the visual media items. The at least one processor may also be configured for accessing the audio media item including sequencing the display of the visual media items based on the display of the audio media items. The at least one processor may further be configured for accessing the visual media items including sequencing the display of the visual media items independently of the display of audio media items.

One or more of the following features may be included. The audio media items may include a plurality of audio segments corresponding to respective audio transmissions by one or more users associated with a channel of the communication system. At least a portion of the audio segments may correspond to a multi party conversation. The multi party conversation may include an ongoing multi party conversation. Accessing the audio media items may include accessing one or more audio segments associated with a prior portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Accessing the audio media items may include accessing a streaming audio sequence associated with a current portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Each audio segment may include an associated identifier of a creator of the audio segment.

Receiving the visual media item may include displaying the visual media item based on at least in part a minimum display time for received visual media items.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In general a communication system may be provided that may allow users to communicate with one another using a variety of different media types in a multi temporal manner and using various devices such as mobile computing devices e.g. smartphone tablet computing devices netbooks etc. personal computers e.g. notebook computers desktop computers etc. gaming consoles set top boxes special purpose computing devices or other suitable devices. An example of such a communication system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 472 639 filed on 16 May 2012 and entitled Communications System the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. For example in some embodiments the communication system may allow users of the system to communicate with one another using audio visual or other media types. Audio media types may include synchronous and or asynchronous voice messages. For example synchronous voice messages may include multi directional live audio exchanges such as voice over IP exchanges or exchanges using other varieties of telephony. In a similar manner an example of a synchronous visual media type may include a multi party video conference e.g. which may be effectuated using video over IP or other suitable video conferencing technology streaming video broadcast by one user to other user etc. In some embodiments during the course of synchronous audio and or visual communications between users of the communication system other media types may be shared by the users of the communication system. For example during the course of an audio based conversation between users of the communication system the users may share documents pictures video clips text messages etc. In some embodiments the communication system may allow the users of the communication system to consume the shared media or documents while also engaged in a audio or video conversation communication with other users of the communication system. Further in some embodiments the communication system may allow users to synchronously and or asynchronously share media or documents without otherwise being engaged in an audio and or video conversation communication with other users of the communication system

In some embodiments in addition or as an alternative to synchronous communications the communication system may allow for asynchronous exchanges between users of the communication system. Asynchronous exchanges may include for example exchanges between users of the communication system who are not actively participating in the communication at the same time. For example a first user may post communications while other users of the communication system are not online or actively listening. The other users who were not online when the first user posted his communications may consume the first user s posts at a later time. Various media types may be used in connection with such asynchronous communications. For example the first user may post audio or video clip media types documents pictures text messages etc.

In some embodiments asynchronous exchanges may occur between users of the communication system who may each be online at the same time. For example the users may exchange and or one user may send and one or more other users may receive various communications such as audio files e.g. as streaming audio discrete received audio clips etc. video files e.g. as streaming video discrete received video clips etc. text messages documents pictures or any other suitable media types. In an example of such an embodiment even when the various parties to the communication may be online at the same time the asynchronous nature of the exchanges may not necessitate an immediate consumption of a communication from one user to another and or may not necessitate an immediate response from on user to another. As such a communication including an asynchronous exchange may be a less intrusive or demanding interaction that a purely synchronous communication.

In addition to purely synchronous or purely asynchronous exchanges a communication system may support exchanges that include synchronous and asynchronous components and or that may transition between synchronous and synchronous exchanges through the course of a single interaction. For example an interaction between users of the communication system may include synchronous components such as voice over IP exchanges as well as asynchronous exchanges such as text messages exchanged video clips or documents etc. In an example a communication between three users of the communication system may begin with a first user sending a document to the other two users and may give rise to an exchange of text messages e.g. in a form similar to SMS message or instant message chat etc. between the users. Further one user may transmit an audio message to the other two users e.g. as a discrete audio file or as streaming audio content . In an embodiment the communication system may allow one or both of the other two users to engage the audio message from the first user by establishing a three way conference call. Further one or the users may drop off of active engagement in the conference call e.g. to become a passive listener of the ongoing conversation between the remaining two users participating in a bidirectional conversation. For example dropping off of active involvement in the conversation may allow the third user to attend to another matter or otherwise direct their attentions. While participating as a passive listener of the conversation between the first two users the third user may participate in the exchange e.g. by sending text messages or the like to the other two users. Further one of the remaining users on the voice call may also leave the call for example to devote all or a portion of their attention to another matter. The first user may continue to transmit audio messages to the other two participants e.g. as streaming audio that may be listened to by the online users or transmitted audio files that may be consumed by the users when they desire and the other two users may similarly transmit various media exchanges such as audio video pictures text messages documents etc. to the other participants of the exchange.

According to one aspect the communication system may utilized a shared virtual space. In an embodiment the shared virtual space may include a virtual space such as a shared online folder etc. that may be allocated to each channel of the communication system. In an embodiment a channel of the communication system may include a defined default set of participants for communications. Each channel of the communication system may include one or more calls associated with the channel. Each of the calls associated with a given channel may include the same default set of participants. In some embodiments the participants of a call on a given channel may vary from the default participant set e.g. to include greater or fewer actual participants. For example a call on a given channel may not require participation by all of the default participants of the channel. Similarly a user may participate in a call on a channel even if the user is not a member of the default participant set for the channel. In some embodiments the user who is not a member of the default participant set for the channel may have different access permissions relative to the shared space as compared to members of the default participant set e.g. the user may only access the one call that he participated in etc. . Each call associated with a channel on the communication system may generally include a set of interactions between the default participants of the channel. For example the set of interactions may include a file such as a document or a video file sent to the other participants on the channel. In another example the set of interactions may include a multi participant video conference along with a plurality of shared documents and text messages from one or more users to the other users. Various additional combinations of media type and numbers of exchanges may be included within a set of interactions defining a call. In general a call may include one or more generally contemporaneous exchanges that may be considered a single time bounded interaction.

In an embodiment the shared virtual space may provide a durable record of the calls taking place on a given channel. For example each of the exchanges may be stored on the shared virtual space. For example synchronous voice conversations e.g. which may occur as voice over IP exchanges may be stored as audio files video conferences may be stored as video files other media types that may be exchanged by users of the communication system may be stored in a variety of formats depending upon the media type. In an embodiment one or more of the participants defining the channel on the communication system may access the shared virtual space and access the exchanges associated with one or more calls associated with the channel.

Referring to there is shown communication process through which may collectively and or generally be referred to as communication process that may reside on and may be executed by one or more client electronic devices e.g. client electronic devices etc. and or by server computer . The one or more client electronic devices and or server computer may be connected to network e.g. the Internet a local area network a private government network or other network . Examples of client electronic devices may include mobile computing devices e.g. smart phones tablet computing devices data enabled cellular telephones network connected personal digital assistants or the like personal computing devices e.g. notebook computer desk top computers gaming consoles and the like network connected television devices and or set top boxes networked camera devices networked embedded computing devices as well as various additional alternative network connectable computing devices. Examples of server computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer a server computer a series of server computers a mini computer a mainframe computer cloud computing services that may include virtualized instances of server computers and the like.

As will be described in greater detail below communication process may generally provide an integrated communication system that may allow synchronous and or asynchronous interactions between small and or large groups of users via multiple data and or media types. Various different types of information ideas and subject matter may be best communicated and shared in different modalities. As such communication process may allow for rich interactions between users through the concurrent exchange sharing and or consumption of audio messages and conversations video content text based information pictures and the like. Communication process may allow multiple different data and media types to be exchanged between users and consumed by the users by providing an integrated user experience.

The instruction sets and subroutines of concept development process which may include one or more software modules and which may be stored on storage device e.g. one or more of storage devices coupled to one or more of client electronic devices and or server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into client electronic devices and or server computer . Storage devices may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a flash memory device or the like.

Each client electronic devices may execute an appropriate operating system for example Mac OS iOS Android OS Windows or other suitable operating system. Mac OS is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both iOS is a trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both. Additionally client electronic devices may allow for various data capture and rendering functionality such as audio capture audio streaming and audio playback video capture video streaming and video playback text input and text display and image capture and image display. Various different client electronic devices may further provide additional alternative functionality including but not limited to sensor functionality including but not limited to location e.g. via GPS data acquisition or the like .

Further while not shown client electronic devices may execute various applications including but not limited to web browser applications e.g. Safari Chrome Internet Explorer Safari is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Chrome is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Internet Explorer is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both text messaging applications instant messaging application audio video and or image capture and editing application social networking application e.g. Facebook application LinkedIn application etc. . Various additional alternative applications may similarly be executed by one or more of client devices . Communication process may be a stand alone application and or may be a module and or component of one or more additional applications executed by client electronic devices . Additionally alternatively communication process may interact with one or more applications executed by client electronic devices .

In some embodiments server computer may be an internet connected server or a series of servers running a network operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell NetWare or Red Hat Linux for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. In some embodiments server computer may execute a web server application examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft IIS Novell Webserver or Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat application server that allows for HTTP i.e. HyperText Transfer Protocol access to server computer via network Webserver is a trademark of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Apache and Tomcat are registered trademarks of Apache Software Foundation in the United States other countries or both . In some embodiments the server computer be implemented as cloud services such as Amazon Web Services and or Microsoft Windows Azure. Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

In some embodiments server computer may execute various applications in addition to communication process . For example server computer may execute data storage systems including but not limited to database systems. Server computer may also execute for example a Voice over IP system and or unified telephony system e.g. which may be provided by the Asterisk open source platform sponsored by Digium Inc. FreeSWITCH open source telephony platform or other suitable communication application and or platform. Various additional and or alternative applications may be executed by server computer .

Consistent with various embodiments communication process may include a client side process executed by one or more of client electronic devices . Further in some embodiments communication process may include a server side process executed by server computer . For example as a server side process one or more users e.g. users may access the server side process e.g. communication process via a web browser or other suitable application e.g. which may include an application that may provide functionality in addition to accessing server side communication process . Additionally in some embodiments communication process may include a hybrid server client process with some of the functionality of communication process executed by one or more of client electronic devices and some of the functionality of communication process executed by server computer . In various hybrid embodiments one or more of client side communication processes may include stand alone communication applications and or may include modules or features of other applications and or may otherwise integrate with and or interact with one or more other applications e.g. which may provide functionality in addition to functionality provided by one or more of communication applications and or .

Users may access communication process via the client electronic device executing communication process e.g. smart phone executing communication process smart phone executing communication process notebook computer executing communication process . Using communication process one or more of users may interact with one another using a variety of data types in a synchronous and or an asynchronous manner allowing for a rich and dynamic exchange of ideas and information between the users.

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example smart phone is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between smart phone and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between smart phone and WAP . Smart phone is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between smart phone and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network . Notebook computer is shown coupled to network e.g. which may further be coupled to network and or server computer via connection via a hardwired connection.

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and personal digital assistants to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

One or more example embodiments may be described that may illustrate particular features and or aspects of the disclosure. For the purpose of description reference may be made to communication process executed by smart phone and or in connection with user . It will be understood however that such reference is intended only for the purpose of explanation and should not be construed as a limitation on the present disclosure. Other instantiations of the communication process client electronic devices and or users may be equally utilized.

According to one aspect communication process may enable different modes for a user to create audio and or visual media content and facilitate transitioning between the different modes of creation by the user. For example in a first mode the user e.g. user via smart phone may create burst of audio that may be sent to other users of the communication system and posted to a shared virtual space associated with a channel of the communication system. In such a mode the user may create and share e.g. by way of transmission to other users and posting to the shared virtual space for example short voice messages or audio clips such as an odd noise being made by a car or brief sound bite from a concert. In an embodiment a first user input via a user interface associated with smart phone may allow the user to create and share the audio burst. Further communication process may also permit the user to create and share longer audio sequences such as detailed description of an idea or an audio conversation with another user of the communication system. In an embodiment the user may transition from the short audio burst mode to the more extended or length audio mode by providing a modification to the first user input. According to some embodiment communication process may similarly allow the user to create visual content in various modes such as individual images image bursts e.g. which may provide a short animation in some embodiments and video content with similar modified inputs. As such the user may be able to create and share different types of media through different modes using relatively simple and intuitive inputs. While example devices have been described as participating in interactions via the communication system various additional devices may also be utilized. In some embodiments devices used in connection with the communication system may include device that enable full participation in communication e.g. may both create interactions such as audio video pictures text etc. and consume interactions such as playing back audio and or video displaying pictures and text etc. and or may enable partial participation in communications e.g. WiFi enabled camera which may create and transmit picture or video interactions but may not necessarily be able to consume interactions or web feeds that may be configured to publish photos text audio video etc. from the feed to the communication channel . Various additional alternative embodiments and devices may be similarly utilized.

Referring also to communication process may receive a user input via a user interface. Communication process may also receive media data in response to receiving the user input. Communication process may also stream the media data to one or more communication system users. Communication process may further post the media data to a shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel.

For example communication process may receive a user input via a user interface. Referring also to communication process may provide user interface . In an embodiment user interface may generally include an indicator of one or more other users of the communication system that may be associated with the channel of the communication system and or who may be actively participating in an exchange. Similarly user interface may include visual media interface via which visual media content associated with the call may be displayed accessed and or otherwise interacted with by user i.e. the device operator of smart phone of the illustrative example . User interface may also include audio media interface via which audio media content associated with the call may be accesses and or interacted with by a user . Further user interface may include audio capture button e.g. which may be utilized for creating and sharing audio content with other participants of the call one the communication channel.

In an embodiment the media data may include audio media data. Continuing with the illustrative example user may which to generate a short voice message. Accordingly user may touch audio capture button . In response to user touching audio capture button communication process may receive media data e.g. audio media data in the instant example in which the media data may include audio media data . In the illustrative example smart phone may include a touch screen display. Accordingly smart phone may receive one or more user inputs in response to a user touching a portion of the touch screen display associated with a virtual button such as audio capture button displayed on the touch screen display of smart phone . It will be appreciated that other user input devices may be utilized. For example trackpad input devices mouse pointing devices or the like may be utilized in connection with other computing devices.

As mentioned above communication process may also receive media data in response to receiving the user input. For example in response to user touching audio capture button smart phone may capture an audio input e.g. utilizing a microphone or other audio capture functionality associated with smart phone . In an embodiment the user input may include an associated input duration time period. That is user may touch audio capture button for an input duration time period. Receiving the media data may include receiving the media data for the input duration e.g. communication process may receive the media data for as long as user is touching audio capture button . That is for example user may press and hold audio capture button for a period of time during which user wishes to create and share the audio message. Accordingly user may press and hold audio capture button while user is creating the audio content e.g. speaking into a microphone associated with smart phone or recording a sound with smart phone etc. that user wished to share with the other users of the communication system. For example if user wishes to share a voice message with the other users of the communication system user may press audio capture button and may hold audio capture button while user is speaking the voice message. Upon completing the voice message and or the portion of the voice message that user is instantly creating e.g. with further portions of the voice message to be subsequently created user may release audio capture button . Accordingly for the input duration time period during which user is holding audio capture button communication process may receive the media data for that input duration.

Communication process may also stream the media data to one or more communication system users. For example streaming the media data may include transmitting the media data to at least a second communication system user as a low latency packetized data transmission. In an embodiment communication process may stream the media data to at least the second communication system user as the media data is being received by communication process . In one such embodiment communication process may stream the media data in real time while the media data is being received by communication process. As such the second communication system user may receive the media data in real time and or near real time as user is creating the voice message in the illustrative example and or other media data being created in other embodiments . In some embodiments communication process may stream the media data to the second communication system user after the entirety of the media data has been received e.g. after user releases audio capture button . Streaming the media data to the second communication system user after user releases audio capture button perhaps long after may in some instances occur when the second user is not online when user initially captures the audio data e.g. during asynchronous communication between user and the second user . Streaming the media data to the second user after the entirety of the media data has been received may also occur in other circumstances.

Communication process may further post the media data to a shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel. As generally discussed above the shared virtual space may include a network accessible storage such as an online shared folder a cloud based data repository or the like. In an embodiment the shared virtual space may be accessible by one or more users of the communication system. In an embodiment posting the media data to the shared virtual space may include storing the media data to the shared virtual space in a suitable file format that may permit access to the stored media data by one or more of the users of the communication system. In an embodiment posting the media data to the shared virtual space may include associating an identifier of the creator or creators e.g. in an embodiment in which the media data may include a combination of media data created by more than one user of the media data with the stored media data. In an embodiment the identifier associated with the media data may include a tag or other meta data associated with the filed including the media data.

Further in some embodiments the posting the media data to the shared virtual space may include associating the media data with a particular call and or interaction. In an embodiment a call on the communication system may include an explicitly defined entity. For example a user of the communication system may begin a call with one or more other users of the communication system. Beginning a call may include an explicit action to call the one or more other users. In some embodiments beginning the call may result from a user responding to or adding to a post that may already exist in the communication system channel. Further one or more of the users of the communication system may explicitly end the call. The call may include the interactions that occur between the users of the communication system between the time that the call begins until the call ends. In an embodiment a call on the communication system may include a time bounded sequence of exchanges. For example a sequence of exchanges may be grouped as a single call of a maximum time between each of the exchanges is less than a threshold time. The media data may also be associated with a channel of the communication system. As also generally discussed above a channel may generally include a plurality of calls or interactions by between and or including a defined default group of participants as contributors and or recipients of the interactions. As also generally discussed above the interactions may include the exchange dissemination broadcast and or sharing of a variety of media types across a variety of modalities and temporal domains. In an embodiment the media data may be associated with the channel by virtue of being associated with a given call e.g. which may be associated with the channel . In other embodiments a direct association between the media data and the channel may be created. For example a tag or other metadata may be associated with the media data which may associated the media data with the channel. According to any various embodiments the media data may be associated with the channel on the communication system and or may be associated with a particular call on the channel and or may be associated with a particular user of the communication system.

In an embodiment posting the media data to the shared virtual space may include posting the media data to the shared virtual space generally simultaneously with streaming the media data to at least the second user of the communication system. In such an embodiment the media data may be posted generally in real time with the creation of the media data. As such in some embodiments the media data may be accessible by a user accessing the shared virtual space generally in real time with the creation of the media data.

According to an example embodiment posting the media data to the shared virtual space may include streaming the media data to the shared virtual space e.g. streaming the media data to the shared virtual space as a recipient and or to a process that may capture the media data and save the media data to the shared virtual space . In one such embodiment communication process may multi cast the media data to at least the second user of the communication system and to the shared virtual space. In another example embodiment streaming the media data to at least the second user of the communication system and posting the media data to the shared virtual space may include streaming the media data to a process e.g. the server side communication process which may e.g. stream the media data to at least the second user and save the media data to the shared virtual space. Various additional alternative embodiments may be equally utilized.

As described above in an embodiment the user input may include an associated input duration time period. Further receiving the media data may include receiving the media data for the input duration. As such in the described embodiment user may create and share the media data as long as audio capture button is pressed. In some instances it may be desirable to continue capturing audio media data without the need to continue pressing audio capture button . For example user may wish to be able to capture audio media via with hands free operation e.g. to allow the user to better direct a microphone of smart phone toward a source of sound to be shared to allow user to perform another activity with his hands etc. . In an embodiment communication process may receive an input modification. Further communication process may receive the media data in response to the input modification including receiving the media data for a time period greater than the input duration. For example as generally described above communication process may receive the media data for as long as the user input is received . In response to receiving the input modification communication process may continue to receive the media data even after the input is no longer being received. According to an embodiment the input modification may lock the user input to allow communication process to continue to receive the media data.

For example in user interface depicted in user may press audio capture button to capture audio media data as long as audio capture button is being pressed. In an embodiment user may invoke the input modification as a swiping gesture associated with audio capture button . For example the swiping gesture may include pressing audio capture button and with audio capture button pressed executing a sliding motion with the finger pressing audio capture button laterally e.g. toward pad lock icon in a left to right direction. In the illustrative example the sliding gesture of audio capture button toward pad lock icon may be received as an input modification which may lock the audio capture on thereby causing communication process to receive audio media data for a time period greater than the input duration e.g. longer than the time period for which audio capture button is pressed .

In an embodiment communication process may receive audio media data in response to receiving the user input and further in response to receiving the input modification. Further communication process may stream and post the media data as generally described above for as long as communication process may continue to receive the media data. In an embodiment communication process may continue to receive the media data until the input modification is released. According to various embodiments user may release the input modification i.e. the locked audio capture button in the illustrative example by swiping in the opposite direction as employed to lock audio capture button e.g. in a right to left direction in illustrated user interface . In another embodiment user may unlock audio capture button thereby causing communication process to stop receiving media data by pressing the central or normal position of audio capture button . Various additional alternative mechanism for stopping the continuous capture of media data may be utilized.

As discussed above communication process may receive stream and post media types in addition as an alternative to audio media data. In an example embodiment the media data may include visual media data. According to such an example communication process may receive a user input to capture visual media such as digital pictures e.g. via digital camera functionality associated with smart phone . Other computing devices may capture digital pictures with camera functionality incorporated into the computing device and or via other devices associated with the computing device such as a web camera or the like . In an example embodiment rotating smart phone from a portrait orientation e.g. with the longitudinal axis of smart phone generally oriented in a vertical direction to a landscape orientation e.g. with the longitudinal axis of smart phone generally oriented in a horizontal direction may enable visual media capture functionality associated with communication process . Visual media capture functionality may also be otherwise enabled. When visual capture functionality is enabled at least a portion of the display of smart phone may act as a viewfinder depicting the field of view of a digital camera associated with smart phone . In one such embodiment user may tap any portion and or a designated portion or feature of the viewfinder display to cause communication process to receive a user input via a user interface. In response to receiving the user input i.e. a tap on a viewfinder display communication process may receive media data in the form of a single digital picture. In such an embodiment each time user taps the viewfinder display communication process may receive media data corresponding to a single digital picture e.g. in which the duration for which communication process may receive the visual media data may generally correspond to a time period of the user input . It will be appreciated that other user inputs may equally be utilized for capturing digital images.

Continuing with the above example communication process may receive a user input in which the user input includes an associated input duration time period. Further communication process may receive the media data for the input duration. As described above user may tap the viewfinder display associated with the user interface. Each time user taps the viewfinder display and or a designated portion or feature of the viewfinder display communication process may receive a user input and may receive media data in the form of a single digital picture for each tap e.g. based on at least in part the input duration. Further in some instances user may touch the viewfinder display for an extended time period e.g. a time period longer than a tap . In an embodiment in response to an extended touch communication process may receive visual media data for the input duration. Receiving visual media data for an input duration associated with an extended touch may include receiving visual media input data as a burst of digital pictures. In some embodiments communication process may receive the burst of digital pictures for as long as user continues the touch of the viewfinder display. In other embodiments communication process may receive the visual media data in the form of a burst of digital pictures including a predetermined number of pictures e.g. a five picture burst etc. . In some embodiments communication process may stream and or post the media data including a burst of digital pictures as a series of discrete images and or as an animation including the discrete images of the burst. In some embodiments communication process may receive visual media data in response to an extended touch as a video clip having a duration that may be based on at least in part the length of the user input touch on the viewfinder display. Other embodiments may similarly be utilized.

In an example embodiment communication process may receive an input modification. Further communication process may receive the media data in response to the input modification including receiving the media data for a time period greater than the input duration. In the example embodiment in which the user input may include a touch within the viewfinder display an example of an input modification may include a touch and slide gesture. For example and referring also to in such an embodiment user may touch the display within the viewfinder display and may then slide his finger across the display e.g. in a horizontal direction or in a vertical direction. For example user may touch camera icon within the display and may slide icon to provide an input modification. In an embodiment in response to receiving a touch and slide input modification communication process may receive the media data for a time period greater than the duration of the input. For example the touch and slide input modification may cause communication process to receive visual media data in the form of a burst of digital picture or a video recording. In an embodiment the video recording may continue until stopped by user e.g. utilizing a cancel gesture such as another touch input on the viewfinder display etc. . Communication process may generally stream and post the video media data as generally discussed herein above.

In the foregoing example in which the input modification may include a touch and slide gesture it will be appreciated that different input modifications may be received depending upon the direction of the slide gesture. For example in an embodiment user may slide camera icon upwards in the depicted embodiment toward icon to invoke a burst picture mode e.g. as an additional or alternative embodiment to the above described burst picture mode . The touch and upward slide of camera icon towards burst icon may cause communication process to receive a first input modification. In an embodiment the first input modification may cause communication process to receive visual media data in the form of multiple digital photographs e.g. take at predetermined time intervals for example every time user taps the display of smart phone . Further user may touch and slide camera icon to the side e.g. either to the left or to the right . For example in an embodiment a touch and slide gesture in which the slide is in a left to right direction e.g. sliding camera icon toward video icon may cause communication process to receive video media data from a first camera e.g. a rear facing camera associated with smart phone . In a related manner a touch and slide gesture in which the slide is in a right to left direction e.g. sliding camera icon towards video conference icon may cause communication process to receive video media data from a second camera e.g. a front facing camera associated with smart phone . Other input modifications may result in different functionality being expressed by communication process. Further it will be appreciated that other user inputs and other input modifications may be utilized without materially departing from the disclosure.

In an embodiment communication process may receive a transmission from a second communication system user. The transmission from the second communication system user may include for example a streaming media data transmissions such as an audio media data transmission e.g. an audio clip voice message etc. or a visual media data transmission e.g. a picture an animation a video clip etc. . In an embodiment the transmission received from the second communication system user may not time wise overlap with streaming the media data received by communication process based on a received user input e.g. as discussed above . That is receipt of the transmission from the second communication system user may not begin during or extend through a time period during which communication process may stream media data. In such an embodiment streaming the media data by communication process and receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may occur as time wise separate events.

In an embodiment in which the received transmission from the second communication system user doe not time wise overlap with streaming the media data posting the media data may include sequentially posting the media data with respect to a post associated with the transmission from the second communication system user. For example in a manner as generally discussed above media data received by communication process may be posted to the shared virtual space associated with a communication system channel. Similarly media data from the second communication system user may be posted to the shared virtual space associated with the communication channel. In an embodiment in which the streaming media data from user does not overlap in a time wise manner with a transmission from a second communication system user communication process may post the media data from user as a separate post from the media data transmitted by the second communication system user. Further the post of the media data from user and the post associated transmission from the second communication system user may be sequentially ordered on the shared virtual space based on a respective time at which each occurred.

In an example embodiment receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with streaming the media data. For example the transmission received from the second communication system user may begin before streaming the media data from user is complete. In a similar manner communication process may receive a transmission from the second communication system user e.g. which may include streaming media data that may not be complete e.g. communication process may still be receiving the transmission from the second communication system user when communication process begins streaming media data from user . According to such embodiments communication process may be simultaneously streaming media data from user and receiving a transmission from a second communication system user for at least a portion the time period during which communication process is streaming media data from user .

In an embodiment in which the media type being streamed by communication process and being received from the second communication system user include the same media type e.g. both include audio media data or both include video media data streaming the media data may include combining the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a multi directional streaming media data transmission. For example assume that the media data being streamed from user includes streaming audio such as a voice message and the transmission received from the second communication system user also include audio such as a voice message communication process may stream the media data from user including combining the media data and the transmission being received as a multi directional voice communication such as a voice over IP session or other telephony session . As such user and the second communication system user may engage in a generally real time bi directional or multi directional in the even that other communication system users simultaneously transmitting the same media type conversation. In a similar manner if the media type being streamed from user and being received from the second communication system user both include video data streaming the media data from user may include combining the streaming media and the received transmission as a video conference.

In a generally similar manner in an embodiment in which receiving the transmission from the second communication system user may time wise overlap with streaming the media data posting the media data may include posting the media data and the transmission from the second communication system user as a combined media data post within the shared virtual space. For example in a manner that is generally analogous to combining the streaming media data and the transmission from the second communication system user into a single multi directional conversation or exchange the posts associated with the media data from user and with the transmission from the second communication system user may include a single post including the combined content of the media data from user and the media data from the second communication system user. In an embodiment the post including the combined media data from user and the transmission from the second communication system user may include an associated indicator e.g. a tag or other metadata indicating that the post includes content from both user and from the second communication system user.

Referring also to in an embodiment in an embodiment communication process may receive a plurality of media items from a communication system. The plurality of media items may include at least audio media items and visual media items. Communication process may also provide a user interface including a time wise sequence display of the audio media items and a time wise sequence display of the visual media items. Communication process may also access the audio media item including sequencing the display of the visual media items based on the display of the audio media items. Communication process may further access the visual media items including sequencing the display of the visual media items independently of the display of audio media items.

For example and as generally described above in some embodiments the communication system may allow users of the system to interact with one another via various different media types and over various temporal domains. For example users may interact via audio media types such as audio clips voice messages interactive conversations between multiple users and the like. Similarly users may interact with one another via visual media communications which may include for example still images animated images video clips video conferences between multiple users text messages or text posts documents maps drawings and the like. Further according to various embodiments media items may be transmitted between users as steaming media items e.g. which may allow for low latency and or real time or near real time communications between users as well as transmission of media files. The various media items may be transmitted by one user to one or more other users of the communication system. Accordingly communication process may receive a plurality of media items from a communication system. The plurality of media items may include at least audio media items and visual media items.

In an embodiment the audio media items may include a plurality of audio segments corresponding to respective audio transmissions by one or more users associated with a channel of the communication system. For example each of the audio segments may include a separate voice message or audio media file transmitted to a user of the communication system e.g. user for example and received by communication process . Further and as mentioned above in some embodiments the audio media items may include audio associated with interactive conversation between multiple users. In such an embodiment at least a portion of the audio segments may correspond to a multi party conversation. For example the multi party conversation may include a multi party conversation that took place between the parties using the communication system which may provide voice over IP or other audio telephony functionality. Each of the audio segments associated with the multi party conversation may include audio generated by each respective participant in the multi party conversation. For example every time that a participant in the conversation speaks an audio segment may be generated and may be received by communication process .

In some embodiments the individual audio segments may be based on at least in part audio whitespaces created in the audio media. For example while creating a voice message or other audio media user may pause or otherwise cause a decrease in the audio signal such as volume received by communication process for greater than a threshold time period thereby creating an audio whitespace. Communication process may segment the audio media based on the detection of such a whitespace. That is communication process receive a first audio segment corresponding to the audio media preceding the whitespace and may receive a second audio segment corresponding to the audio media following the whitespace. In a generally similar manner during a multi party conversation between two or more users e.g. which may be provided via a voice over IP or other telephony provided by communication system any given audio segment may include more than one creator such as when two users speak at the same time a second user begins speaking in less than the threshold whitespace time after the first user stops speaking. As such communication system may receive audio media including an audio segment of which both the first user and the second user are creators. Further after the second user speaks both the first and second user as well as any other user participating in the multi party conversation may remain silent and or generate a decreased audio signal for a time period equal to or greater than the threshold whitespace time period. In such an embodiment when a user begins speaking after the threshold whitespace time period communication process may receive another audio segment that may include one or more creators.

In an embodiment the multi party conversation may include an ongoing multi party conversation. As such at least a portion of the audio media items may include audio segments from the ongoing multi party conversation. As the conversation may include an ongoing conversation as participants in the conversation continue to speak with one another communication process may receive additional media items including audio segments associated with the current state of the ongoing conversation. As generally described above the various audio segments may be received based on an per creator basis e.g. a separate audio segment may be created every time a different user speaks or otherwise creates audio media or on a whitespace basis e.g. in which a separate audio segment is created every time an audio whitespace equal to or greater than a threshold whitespace time period occurs .

Communication process may also provide a user interface including a time wise sequence display of the audio media items and a time wise sequence display of the visual media items. For example and referring also to communication process may provide user interface . User interface may include audio track display which may include a time wise sequence display of the audio media items. For example in the illustrated embodiment the audio track display is depicted as a segment of audio tape having audio waveforms depicted thereon. In the illustrated user interface the audio waveforms may correlate to individual audio segments received by communication process. In an embodiment user may traverse audio track display to access audio segments that occurred later in time and or earlier in time with respect to one or more currently displayed audio segments.

In an embodiment user may traverse audio track display by scrolling laterally for example by executing a side to side swipe gesture across the representation of audio track display on a touch screen display associated with smart phone . In an embodiment a left to right swipe gesture may scroll audio track display to the left allowing user to view audio segments that occurred earlier in time. In a generally corresponding manner a right to left swipe gesture may scroll audio track display to the right allowing user to view audio segments that occurred later in time. User may access e.g. listen to an audio segment by selecting e.g. by touching clicking on etc. a representation of an audio segment displayed within audio track display . Further in a situation in which user may be displaying and or accessing an audio segment within audio track display that has an associated creation time at an earlier time user may select stop button . Selecting stop button may traverse audio track display to display a most currently received audio media item. In a situation in which communication process may be receiving streaming audio media when user selects stop button communication process begin playing the streaming audio media in real time. It will be understood that various additional alternative displays may be implemented for providing a time wise sequence display of audio media items. For example user may also return to a most current portion of the audio media data by simply allowing the recorded audio media data represented in audio track display to play out e.g. play from a selected portion until all recorded audio media from the selected audio media data until the last received audio media data and or may traverse audio track display to the most recently received audio media data. Further various additional alternative controls may be provided for playing back and or accessing audio media items e.g. controls to skip forward or backward fast forward and rewind etc. .

In an embodiment the individual audio segments may arranged within audio track display in a time wise sequence in which the individual audio segments may be arranged based on the time at which the audio segment was created. In an embodiment in which one or more of the audio segments may not have been received by communication process in real time with the creation of the audio segment the audio segment may be time wised sequenced with the other audio segments displayed in audio track display based on creation time data associated with the audio segment. The creation time data associated with the audio segment may include metadata associated with the audio segment. In addition to using the metadata associated with the audio segment for time wise sequencing the audio segment with respect to other audio segments in some embodiments communication process may display metadata associated with an audio segment currently selected within audio track display . For example communication process may display tag which may include for example an identification of the one or more creators of the audio segment a duration time of the audio segment and a creation time of the audio segment. Tag may include additional and or alternative information.

In a generally corresponding manner communication process may provide also a user interface including a time wise sequence display of the visual media items. For example user interface may include visual track display . Visual track display may include a plurality of images based on and or representative of individual visual media items. For example each image within visual track display may include a visual media item scaled in size to fit within visual track display . In an embodiment in which a visual media item may include a video media item and or an animated visual media item the image within visual track display may include a representative image such as an initial image of a video media item or animated visual item. Other representative images may similarly be employed. Further in a generally similar manner as discussed with respect to the user interface associated with audio media items visual media items may be arranged within visual track display in a time wise sequenced arrangement based on a creation time of each respective visual media item. While not shown each visual media item may include associated creator s creation time etc. metadata. In some embodiments at least a portion of the metadata and or information based on at least in part the metadata may be displayed within user interface . Further and also in a manner as generally described with respect to the audio media items user may access visual media items from earlier and or later creation times with respect to a currently displayed visual media item e.g. via a side to side swipe gesture executed over visual track display .

Communication process may also access the audio media item including sequencing the display of the visual media items based on the display of the audio media items. For example as discussed above user may traverse audio track display to access audio segments from previous period of time such as through the user of a left to right swipe gesture across audio track display in the illustrated example embodiment. Further communication process may access an audio media item e.g. from a previous period of time by selecting the audio waveform associated with the previous audio media item from within audio track display . In an embodiment accessing the audio media item may include sequencing the display of the visual media items based on the display of the audio media items. For example in response to user accessing an audio segment from an earlier period of time communication process may display e.g. within visual track display one or more visual media items having a creation time that may at least generally correspond to the creation time of the accessed audio media item. Consistent with the foregoing example when user listens to an audio segment from a prior time period visual media items from a generally corresponding time period may be displayed. In some embodiments accessing audio media items may include accessing audio media items independently of video media items. That is in some embodiments user may traverse audio track display without a corresponding sequencing of visual track display and or items within visual track display .

As discussed above the audio media items may in some embodiments include audio segments associated with an ongoing multi party conversation. In such an embodiment accessing the audio media items may include accessing one or more audio segments associated with a prior portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. Further and as described above communication process may sequence the display of visual media items e.g. may sequence visual track display to display one or more visual media items having a creation time that may generally correspond to the prior portion of the ongoing multi party conversation e.g. to the extend that any generally corresponding visual media items may have been received .

In an embodiment accessing the audio media items may include accessing a streaming audio sequence associated with a current portion of the ongoing multi party conversation. For example and as generally discussed above after accessing one or more audio segments associated with an earlier time period user may wish to return to a currently ongoing multi party conversation and or access currently streaming audio media items. In such a situation user may select stop button . In response to user selecting stop button communication process may play currently streaming audio media items being received . Additionally and as generally discussed each audio segment may include an associated identifier of a creator or more than one creators of the audio segment e.g. which may be displayed via tag and or via other suitable display.

As described above in some embodiments access an audio media item from a prior time period may include sequencing a display of visual media items to display visual media items that may have been created in the same general time frame as an audio media item being accessed. As such user may view visual media items generally corresponding in time to audio media items being accessed e.g. listened to . In some embodiments user may wish to view previously received visual media items without interrupting playback of audio media items and or without interrupting streaming audio media items being currently received by communication process . In an embodiment communication process may access the visual media items including sequencing the display of the visual media items independently of the display of audio media items. For example user may sequence the display of the visual media items e.g. via a side to side swipe gesture executed across visual track display . Executing a side to side swipe gesture across visual track display may cause communication process to access visual media items including sequencing the display of visual media items by displaying successively older or more recent visual media items e.g. depending upon the direction of the swipe gesture within visual track display . In an embodiment accessing visual media items may be independent of display of audio media items. As such while communication process may sequence the display of visual media items in response to the swipe gesture across visual track display the audio media items displayed via audio track display may not be sequenced. In some embodiments traversing visual track display may result in a corresponding sequencing of audio track display and or audio media items represented within audio track display to display and or make accessible audio media items corresponding to at least a general time period associated with a visual media item displayed in the sequenced visual track display .

In an example embodiment receiving the visual media item may include displaying the visual media item based on at least in part a minimum display time for received visual media items. For example in some embodiments communication process may receive a plurality of visual media items in relatively rapid succession. For example a user of the communication system may take several digital pictures in a short time frame such as in a burst. In an embodiment the digital images may be streamed via the communication system and may be received in relatively rapid succession e.g. based on the speed with which the images were taken and steamed . In some situations the images may be received so quickly that user may not have time to view each individual picture before the next picture is received e.g. in visual track display . In such a situation while user may have the ability to traverse the visual media items via visual track display user may not be aware of the number of images that have been received by communication process e.g. because the multiple pictures were received in quick succession. In an embodiment communication process may display each received visual media item based on at least in part a minimum display time for received visual media items regardless of the rate at which the visual media items were received. For example a minimum display time may include a two second display time e.g. or other system or user selected display time . As such each received visual media item may be displayed for at least two seconds before the next visual media item is displayed e.g. regardless of the rate at which the visual media items are received. As such user may have an opportunity to at least briefly view each visual media item before the next is displayed. User may additionally be able to better ascertain how many individual visual media items e.g. digital pictures were received and may be better able to make a decision as to whether to go back through visual track display and further view various visual media items.

Referring also to there is shown a diagrammatic view of computing device . While computing device is shown in this figure this is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to be a limitation of this disclosure as other configurations are possible. For example any computing device capable of executing in whole or in part communication process may be substituted for smart phone within examples of which may include but are not limited to computing devices .

Computing device may include microprocessor configured to e.g. process data and execute instructions code for communication process . Microprocessor may be coupled to storage device . As discussed above examples of storage device may include but are not limited to a hard disk drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID device an NAS device a Storage Area Network a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and all forms of flash memory storage devices. IO controller may be configured to couple microprocessor with various devices such as keyboard mouse USB ports not shown and printer ports not shown . Display adaptor may be configured to couple display e.g. a CRT or LCD monitor with microprocessor while network adapter e.g. an Ethernet adapter may be configured to couple microprocessor to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method e.g. executing in whole or in part on computing device a system e.g. computing device or a computer program product e.g. encoded within storage device . Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium e.g. storage device having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium e.g. storage device may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. The computer usable or computer readable medium may also be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages and or in scripting languages such as JavaScript programming language or the Groovy programming language. Furthermore various application programming interfaces APIs and or application development frameworks such as the Dojo or Grails development frameworks may be used in writing the computer program. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network a wide area network the Internet e.g. network .

The present disclosure is described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor e.g. processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer other programmable data processing apparatus e.g. computing device such that the instructions which execute via the processor e.g. processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory e.g. storage device that may direct a computer e.g. computing device or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer e.g. computing device or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures may illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations may be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

