---

title: Triboelectric generator
abstract: A generator includes a thin first contact charging layer and a thin second contact charging layer. The thin first contact charging layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The thin first contact charging layer has a first side with a first conductive electrode applied thereto and an opposite second side. The thin second contact charging layer includes a second material that has a second rating on a triboelectric series that is more negative than the first rating. The thin first contact charging layer has a first side with a first conductive electrode applied thereto and an opposite second side. The thin second contact charging layer is disposed adjacent to the first contact charging layer so that the second side of the second contact charging layer is in contact with the second side of the first contact charging layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178446&OS=09178446&RS=09178446
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09178446
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120829
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 528 981 filed Aug. 30 2011 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 621 114 filed Apr. 6 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to generators and more specifically to a system for generating voltage and current using the triboelectric effect.

Energy harvesting by converting ambient energy into electricity may offset the reliance of small portable electronics on traditional power supplies such as batteries. When long term operation of a large number of electronic devices in dispersed locations is required energy harvesting has the advantages of outstanding longevity relatively little maintenance minimal disposal and contamination. Despite of these benefits superior performance miniaturized size and competitive prices are still to be sought after in order for energy harvesting technology becoming prevalent.

The triboelectric effect is a type of contact electrification in which certain materials become electrically charged after they come into contact with another such as through friction. It is the mechanism though which static electricity is generated. Triboelectric effect associated electrostatic phenomena are the most common electrical phenomena in our daily life from walking to driving but the triboelectric effect has been largely ignored as an energy source for electricity. Some electrostatic microgenerators have been developed and used in research relating to microelectromechanical systems MEMS but such designs tend to be based on inorganic materials and the fabrication of such devices requires complex processes.

Therefore there is a need for a reliable small and easily manufactured system for harvesting triboelectric energy.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a generator that includes a thin first contact charging layer and a thin second contact charging layer. The thin first contact charging layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The thin first contact charging layer has a first side with a first conductive electrode applied thereto and an opposite second side. The thin second contact charging layer includes a second material that has a second rating on a triboelectric series that is more negative than the first rating. The thin first contact charging layer has a first side with a first conductive electrode applied thereto and an opposite second side. The thin second contact charging layer is disposed adjacent to the first contact charging layer so that the second side of the second contact charging layer is in contact with the second side of the first contact charging layer.

In another aspect the invention is a triboelectric generator that includes a first conductive electrode layer a second conductive electrode layer a first contact charging layer and a second contact charging layer. The first contact charging layer has a first side and an opposite second side. The first conductive electrode layer is disposed on the first side of the first contact charging layer. The first contact charging layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The first contact charging layer has a thickness sufficiently thin so that a positive excess charge on the second side induces an electric field that induces negative charge carriers to form in the first conductive electrode layer. The second contact charging layer has a first side and an opposite second side. The second conductive electrode layer is disposed on the first side of the second contact charging layer. The second contact charging layer includes a second material that his a second rating on the triboelectric series wherein the second rating is more negative than the first rating. The second side of the second contact charging layer is disposed against the second side of the first contact charging layer. The second contact charging layer has a thickness sufficiently thin so that a negative excess charge on the second side induces an electric field that induces positive charge carriers to form in the second conductive electrode layer. Relative movement between contacting portions of the second side of the first contact charging layer and the second side of the second contact charging layer results in excess positive charge on the second side of the first contact charging layer and excess negative charge on the second side of the second contact charging layer.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of generating an electrical current and voltage in which a first contact charging layer is brought in contact with a second contact charging layer. The first contact charging layer has a first side and an opposite second side. A first conductive electrode layer is disposed on the first side of the first contact charging layer. The first contact charging layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The first contact charging layer has a thickness sufficiently thin so that a positive excess charge on the second side induces an electric field that induces negative charge carriers to form in the first conductive electrode layer. The second contact charging layer has a first side and an opposite second side. A second conductive electrode layer is disposed on the first side of the second contact charging layer. The second contact charging layer includes a second material that his a second rating on the triboelectric series wherein the second rating is more negative than the first rating. The second side of the second contact charging layer is disposed against the second side of the first contact charging layer. The second contact charging layer has a thickness sufficiently thin so that a negative excess charge on the second side induces an electric field that induces positive charge carriers to form in the second conductive electrode layer. Relative motion between the first contact charging layer and the second contact charging layer is caused. A load is applied between the first conductive electrode layer and the second electrode layer thereby causing an electrical current to flow through the load.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in a triboelectric energy harvesting system may be embodied as a generator or a sensor unit that includes a first contact charging layer that has a first conductive electrode layer disposed on a first side and that has an opposite second side that has a textured surface. The first contact charging layer includes a material with a relatively less negative triboelectric series rating. Examples of suitable materials can include polyethylene terephthalate PET poly methyl methacrylate PMMA a conductor a metal an alloy and combinations thereof.

A second contact charging layer is disposed against the first contact charging layer . The second contact charging layer includes a material that has a rating on the triboelectric series that is more negative than that of the material of the first contact charging layer . Examples of such materials can for example include poly oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide such as Kapton polydimethylsiloxane a conductor a metal an alloy and combinations thereof. The second contact charging layer includes a first side and an opposite second side and a second conductive electrode layer is applied to the first side . The second side also includes a textured surface. In one embodiment the textured surfaces may include nanoscale or microscale texture. The electrode layers and can include materials such as gold silver aluminum a metal indium tin oxide ITO and combinations thereof. If ITO is used the resulting device can be transparent.

Relative movement between the second sides and of the first contact charging layer and the second contact charging layer can be caused by applying a force to one of the layers. This causes electrons to be transferred from the second contact charging layer to the first contact charging layer . This causes the second surface of the first contact charging layer to be negatively charged and the second surface of the second contact charging layer to be positively charged. The charges on the second sides and generate respective electric fields that induce charge accumulation in the electrode layers and and when a load is coupled therebetween electrons will flow through the load .

A unit can be made as a sandwiched structure with two different polymer sheets stacked alternatively without interlayer binding. In one experimental embodiment a rectangular 4.5 cm 1.2 cm Kapton film 125 m in thickness Dupont 500HN was placed onto another flexible PET substrate Dura Lar 220 m in thickness . The two short edges of the device were sealed with ordinary adhesive tape and to ensure an adequate contact between two polymer sheets. Both of the top and bottom surfaces of the structure were covered with a thin layer of Au alloy film 100 nm in thickness by sputter coating. The metal films play two important roles here 1 producing equal but opposite sign mobile charges via the electrostatic induction of the tribology generated potential at the interfacial region and 2 serving as common electrodes for directly connecting the device with an external circuit.

As shown in a plurality of units can be stacked and coupled in parallel to generate an increased current or in series to generate an increased voltage. By stacking two thin polymer films for example Kapton and polyester PET a charge generation separation and induction process can be achieved through a mechanical deformation of the polymer film. In one experimental embodiment a power output density of about 10.4 mW cmwas achieved with an output voltage of 3.3 V. This is a simple low cost readily scalable fabrication process of a generator or sensor can convert random mechanical energy found in many environmental sources e.g. rotating tires wind etc. into electricity using conventional flexible foldable polymer materials. This technology has a great potential for scaling up to power mobile and personal electronics used in environmental monitoring personal medical networks electronic emergency equipment and other self powered systems.

The operating principle of the system can be described by the coupling of contact charging and electrostatic induction as shown in in an embodiment in which the first contact charging layer comprises a Kapton film and the second contact charging layer comprises PMMA. In at the original state no charge is generated or induced and no electric potential difference EPD exists between the two electrodes. When an externally introduced displacement is applied to the unit in the direction of the arrows as shown in the two contact charging layers are brought into contact with each other. Surface charge transfer then takes place at the contact area due to triboelectric effect. According to the triboelectric series electrons are injected from PMMA into Kapton resulting in net negative charges at the Kapton surface and net positive charges at the PMMA surface respectively. The insulating property of theses polymers allows a long time retention of triboelectric charges for hours or even days.

As the displacement decreases the unit starts to be released and the Kapton film begins to revert back to its original position due to its own resilience. Once the two polymers separate an EPD is then established between the two electrodes as shown in FIG. C. Defining electric potential of the bottom electrode U to be zero electric potential of the top electrode U can be calculated by 

Here a forward connection is defined for measurement as a configuration with positive end of the electrometer connected to the bottom electrode BE . All electric measurements herein are based on the forward connection unless otherwise stated. Therefore as the unit is being released V as shown in keeps increasing until reaching the maximum value when the Kapton film fully reverts to the original position as shown in . Theoretically such a voltage would remain constant provided that the input impedance of the electrometer is infinite. If renewed pressing is immediately followed as shown in the EPD starts diminishing as the two polymer layers get closer to each other. As a result Vdrops from the maximum value to zero when a full contact is made again between the two polymers as shown in .

As shown in if the two electrodes are shorted any established EPD shown in Equation 1 as the two polymers separate drives electrons from the top electrode TE to the bottom electrode BE resulting in a nearly instantaneous positive current during the releasing process. The net effect is that inducted charges accumulate with positive sign on the TE and negative sign on the BE. The inducted charge density when the generator is fully released can be expressed as below 

Once the unit is pressed again reduction of the interlayer distance makes the TE possess a higher electric potential than the BE. As a consequence electrons are driven from the BE back to the TE reducing the amount of inducted charges. This process corresponds to the nearly instantaneous negative current shown in . When the two polymers are in contact again as shown in all inducted charges are neutralized.

In one experimental embodiment as triggered by a vibration source with controlled frequency and amplitude the unit produced an open circuit voltage and a short circuit current as predicted in the above analytical model. Electric output with opposite sign was obtained by switching the polarity for electric measurement. The peak value of the Vand Iwere up to 110 V and 6 A respectively. Substituting the experimentally determined Vinto Equation 1 a theoretical triboelectric charge density was obtained according to the following 

External load matching for the generator was studied in the experimental embodiment. With an increase in the load resistance the maximum current decreases due to ohmic loss while the maximum voltage across the load has an opposite trend. Accordingly the electric power exhibited an instantaneous peak value of 110 W in correspondence to a power density of 31.2 mW cm. The measurement results reveal that the generator is particularly efficient provided that the load has a resistance on the order of mega ohms.

One embodiment can be employed in a sensor system such as a self powered touch screen. To make the device transparent and improve the power generation density three approaches were used in an experimental embodiment 1 using a transparent PDMS film as one of the contact charging layers 2 using transparent ITO for the electrode layers resulting in a flexible and transparent structure and 3 fabricating various PDMS pattern arrays to enhance the friction effect resulting in a high output generator unit.

Such an embodiment can be made of two sheets of polymers that have distinctly different triboelectric characteristics with one easy to gain electrons and the other one easy to lose electrons. By stacking the two sheets together with flexibility of relative sliding two insulating polymeric materials are touched and rubbed with each other when deformed by an external mechanical deformation. Thus electrostatic charges with opposite signs are generated and distributed on the two surfaces of the polymer films due to the presence of the nanometer scale roughness and an interface dipole layer is formed which is called a triboelectric potential layer. Such a dipole layer induces an inner potential layer between the planar metal electrodes. The induced charges will not be quickly conducted away or neutralized owing to the insulative nature of the polymer films. To minimize the energy created by the triboelectric potential electrostatically induced free charges will flow across the external load between the two electrodes coated on the top and bottom polymer sheets respectively to reach equilibrium. Once the structure is released and the tribologic force is removed the two polymer films recover their original shapes and the tribologically generated positive and negative charges may neutralize and the electrostatic induced charges across the two electrodes recombine.

As shown in patterns can be fabricated on the polymer surfaces to increase the triboelectric power output. To make patterned polydimethylsiloxane PDMS films Si wafer molds are fabricated by traditional photolithography methods followed by a dry or wet etching process to fabricate different recessed features onto the surface as shown in . Examples of such features include pyramids rectangular prisms as shown in and rows as shown in . The surface of the molds is initially treated with trimethylchlorosilane to prevent the PDMS film from sticking to the recessed features . As shown in liquid PDMS elastomer and a cross linker are mixed degassed and uniformly spin coated on the surface of the mold . As shown in after curing thermally a uniform PDMS layer is peeled off including inverse of the original pattern features on the surface of the mold . As shown in the PDMS film was fixed on the insulation surface of a clean indium tin oxide ITO coated polyethylene terephthalate PET substrate by a thin PDMS bonding layer and then the entire structure was covered with another ITO coated PET film to form a sandwich structured device. A schematic view of the resulting structure is shown in .

One advantage of this technique is that hundreds of replicas of patterned PDMS films can be produced from one single mold. Silicon based molds can be replaced by metal molds e.g. Ni or Al due to their excellent mechanical properties and longevity. The entire preparation process of the device is simple and low cost making it possible to be scaled up for large scale production and practical applications.

As shown in micrographs of the resulting PDMS pattern arrays show that the above described fabrication method yields regular and uniform microstructures across the whole area of a 4 inch wafer mold. The shape and lateral dimensions of the polymer structure are well controlled by the initial patterns on the surface of the wafer mold. As shown in the size of single PDMS features is limited to about 10 m. Smaller features down to 5 m can also be produced with consistent quality. As shown in the pyramid features have a near perfect geometric structure and a sharp tip which can be beneficial for increasing the friction area and the efficiency in the power generation process. A micrograph of a rectangular prismatic embodiment is shown in and an embodiment employing elongated rows is shown in .

It should also be noted that the resulting PDMS film is stretchable and transparent as illustrated in . Given that the electrode layers include transparent ITO these embodiments are especially applicable to touch sensors such as touch screen displays.

As shown in one embodiment includes a triboelectric generator wherein a side of one of the contact charging layers includes a texture formed by a plurality of elongated nanowires extending outwardly therefrom. This embodiment can result in a substantial charge density during use.

Dry etching is applied on the Kapton surface to create vertically aligned polymer nanowires . Use of these nanowires results in increased surface friction as they are brought in contact with the opposite polymer layer . A spacer structure improves electric output.

In one experimental embodiment the fabrication process starts with a square glass sheet on which is deposited with a thin layer of aluminum as the bottom electrode using electron beam evaporator. Then a thin layer of PMMA is spun coated followed by adding a spacer layer at the edges leaving a square cavity at the center. One side of a Kapton film is deposited with a layer of aluminum as the top electrode while the other side was dry etched to create vertically aligned polymer nanowires . Then the Kapton layer was anchored on the spacer with the top electrode facing up. The spacer can be made of an insulating polymer with double sided adhesive keeping the Kapton film at a fixed distance away from the PMMA layer underneath.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

