---

title: Personalized integrated audio services
abstract: A processor-implemented method of providing personalized integrated audio comprises maintaining, by a computer, a profile for a user, creating the audio stream to transmit to an audio play device associated with the user and inserting the music from a source into the audio stream, interrupting the insertion of the music into the audio stream, inserting a first audio message into the audio stream, and resuming insertion of the music into the audio stream after the completion of the first audio message. The profile comprises user specified preferences for music and a user-defined schedule of when insertion of audio messages from user selected subscribed information services are permitted into an audio stream, and the first audio message is selected by the computer from the user selected subscribed information services of the profile based on at least one of a time or a place of the audio play device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037664&OS=09037664&RS=09037664
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09037664
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121210
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 683 035 filed on Jan. 6 2010 entitled Personalized Integrated Audio Services by Michael A. Gailloux et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Audio play devices comprising mobile telephones personal digital assistants PDA media players and other portable electronic devices may receive a plurality of content types from wireless communications services providers and other sources. Services received under subscription may comprise conventional telephone voice communication short message service SMS messaging commonly known as text messaging multimedia message services MMS messaging and electronic mail messaging. Other available services may comprise instant messaging or chat services access to the world wide web of the Internet and global positioning system services. A user of an audio play device may subscribe to additional information services including delivery of selected news sports business weather and traffic information made available under subscription. These additional services may be available from third party information providers through the wireless communications services provider and bundled into the package of services received under the user s general account with the provider. Other audio services available may include talk radio and closed circuit content of live or taped proceedings that a user may be able to access under subscription.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method of providing personalized integrated audio is provided. The method comprises a computer creating an audio stream to transmit to an audio play device and inserting a music from a source into the audio stream. The method also comprises the computer interrupting the insertion of the music into the audio stream and the computer inserting a first audio message into the audio stream wherein the first audio message is selected by the computer from subscribed information services based on at least one of a time and a place of the audio play device. The method also comprises the computer inserting a second audio message into the audio stream wherein the second audio message comprises information converted from a text format of a message addressed to a communication system of the audio play device to an audio format. After the completion of one of the first audio message and the second audio message the method also comprises the computer resuming insertion of the music into the audio stream.

In an embodiment a system for creating personalized audio is provided. The system comprises a computer having a processor and a memory and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor composes a first audio stream for transmission to a play device the first audio stream comprising a music from a source. The system also selects a first audio message based on at least a location of the play device and a time and inserts the first audio message into the audio stream. The system also converts one of an email message addressed to the play device and a text message addressed to the play device to an audio format to a second audio message. The system also inserts the second audio message into the audio stream and transmits the audio stream via a communication network to the play device.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method of providing personalized integrated audio is provided comprising a computer analyzing a profile of a first user to identify a first user music listening preference. The method also comprises the computer selecting a first music from a source based on the first user music listening preference and the computer composing a first audio stream to transmit to an audio play device of the first user wherein the first audio stream comprises the first music. The method also comprises the computer transmitting the first audio stream to the audio play device of the first user over a communication network wherein at least a portion of the communication network is provided by a wireless link. The method also comprises the computer identifying an interruption point in the first music and inserting a first audio message into the first audio stream after the interruption point wherein the first audio message is one of a news message a weather forecast message and a sport score message. The method also comprises the computer converting one of an electronic mail message and a text message to a second audio message and the computer inserting the second audio message into the first audio stream.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method of providing personalized integrated audio comprises maintaining by a computer a profile for a user creating the audio stream to transmit to an audio play device associated with the user and inserting the music from a source into the audio stream interrupting the insertion of the music into the audio stream inserting a first audio message into the audio stream and resuming insertion of the music into the audio stream after the completion of the first audio message. The profile comprises user specified preferences for music and a user defined schedule of when insertion of audio messages from user selected subscribed information services are permitted into an audio stream and the first audio message is selected by the computer from the user selected subscribed information services of the profile based on at least one of a time or a place of the audio play device.

In an embodiment a system for creating personalized audio comprises a computer having a processor and a memory and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor maintains a profile for a user composes the first audio stream for transmission to a play device associated with the user the first audio stream comprising the music from a source converts one of an email message addressed to the play device or a text message addressed to the play device to an audio format to a first audio message inserts the first audio message into the audio stream and transmits the audio stream via a communication network to the play device. The profile comprises user specified preferences for music and a user defined schedule of when insertion of audio messages from user selected subscribed information services are permitted into an audio stream.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method of providing personalized integrated audio comprises maintaining by a computer a profile for a user analyzing by the computer the profile of the first user to identify a first user music listening preference selecting by the computer a first music from a source based on the first user music listening preference composing by the computer the first audio stream to transmit to an audio play device of the first user wherein the first audio stream comprises the first music transmitting by the computer the first audio stream to the audio play device of the first user over a communication network identifying by the computer an interruption point in the first music at a location based on the user defined schedule in the profile and inserting a first audio message into the first audio stream after the interruption point converting by the computer one of an electronic mail message or a text message to a second audio message and inserting by the computer the second audio message into the first audio stream. The profile comprises user specified preferences for music and a user defined schedule of when insertion of messages from user selected subscribed information services are permitted into a first audio stream. At least a portion of the communication network is provided by a wireless link and the first audio message is selected by the computer from the user selected subscribed information services of the profile.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure enables an audio play device to receive a personalized stream of audio content with limited automatically selected interruptions for alerts containing time sensitive information and messages from designated senders. Personalized integrated audio services may stream personalized audio content for example music and may interrupt the audio streaming for alert messages containing specific information items for example news weather and traffic updates which have been designated in advance by a user and or subscriber to the personalized integrated audio services. The user and or subscriber may also designate in advance a schedule for news weather and or traffic alert interruptions. Audio streaming may also be automatically interrupted for selected electronic mail messages and text messages converted to audio content and telephone voice mail messages sent by persons designated in advance by the user and or subscriber for example specific family members and or work colleagues. The music may be automatically selected based on a musical taste profile defined in advance by the user and or subscriber.

The user of the audio play device wishing to devote full attention on work or another engagement may subscribe for continuous streaming of music or other audio content to accompany and complement the user s activity. The audio play device may be a mobile telephone. In addition to voice and data services the user may subscribe for streaming of music or other audio content from its wireless communications service provider. The present disclosure teaches automatically selected interruptions of the audio stream for insertion of audio messages from sources on subjects and at times of the user s choosing. The audio messages interrupting the streamed content may be inserted immediately upon receipt by the provider with the streamed content abruptly interrupted. The audio messages may alternatively be inserted at logical breaks in the streamed content for example at the end of a streamed song or other piece of music. The user as customer of the wireless communications service provider may have full flexibility to configure how these interruptions are permitted.

Personalized integrated audio services may be configured to permit a user to create a plurality of schedules or profiles for streaming of audio and permitted interruptions for selected audio messages. Each profile may combine the user s choice of music or other content with a description of permitted interruptions for that particular profile. The user may maintain specific profiles for different times of the day days of the week and physical locations of the subscriber for example home office or automobile. The user may spontaneously create a temporary profile that suits the user s taste for content at that moment and combines the content with a schedule of permitted interruptions for that session.

Turning now to a system of personalized integrated audio is provided. The system comprises a personalized audio server a personalized audio application audio play devices user interfaces a profiles database profiles external content sources a content library information sources a base transceiver system and a network .

The personalized audio server may be a computer system. Computer systems are discussed in greater detail hereinafter. The personalized audio server may comprise one computer or a plurality of computers for example a server farm wherein many server computers cooperate to share a processing load. The personalized audio server may comprise a plurality of computers that are located at different places for example to provide geographical diversity and increased service reliability. The personalized audio server executes one or more applications including the personalized audio application .

The personalized audio application executes on the personalized audio server and wirelessly sends personalized streams of audible content to a plurality of audio play devices . The audible content may comprise music or other media of types selected by users of the audio play devices . The personalized audio application inserts selected audio messages into the streams of audible content the sources of the audio messages chosen by the users of the audio play devices . The audio messages may comprise publicly available information for example news business weather sports or traffic information inserted into the personalized stream of content at intervals chosen by the user or upon the occurrence of specific events. The chosen audio messages inserted into the stream of music or other content may also comprise some private content specific to the individual user for example electronic mail and short message service SMS messages commonly referred to as text messages converted to audible content. The inserted messages may also comprise some telephone voice mail messages left for the user during the session. The personalized audio application may store profiles for users of audio play devices describing their preferences for music and other content to be streamed to the audio play devices . The profiles may also describe permitted interruptions of audio streams for playing of inserted audio messages including general public content received under subscription and private user specific content approved by the user of the audio play device .

The personalized audio server may be operated by a provider of wireless communications services. The personalized audio application may allow the user of an audio play device subscribing to voice data and other services offered by the provider to subscribe for continuous streaming of music content from the personalized audio server to the audio play device . When the user chooses the user may activate the audio play device to initiate a wireless audio streaming session with the personalized audio server that is located remotely from the audio play device . The personalized audio application begins streaming music or other content of a type chosen by the user to the audio play device . The personalized audio application may have access to several sources of content of the user s specified type. Sources may comprise external content sources for example satellite radio or conventional radio a content library containing digital audio files or other sources. The audio play device may be configured to play the audio content through its own speakers or attached headphones or earphones. The audio play device may alternatively transmit the audio content to another proximate device equipped with its own speakers or other audio hardware. In an embodiment the audio play device may be a mobile telephone that relays a baseband audio signal to a speaker system using wireless communication. The mobile telephone may communicate directly to the speakers or through an intermediary computer. The wireless communication may use Bluetooth WiFi or other technology.

At predefined times for example at the end of a song the personalized audio application may insert items of audio content of types previously approved by the user of the audio play device . The content may be news about a subject of interest to the user with news about other subjects excluded. The audio play device may configure its service to direct the personalized audio application to interrupt the playing of a song if an item of news becomes available about a specifically designated subject of interest and is determined to be of an urgent nature. The present disclosure teaches the personalized audio application providing the user the ability to specify the types of special audio content that may interrupt the regular playing of music during songs. The present disclosure additionally teaches how urgency is determined to designate audio content as special wherein music or other normally playing content may be interrupted during a song.

The personalized audio application may insert audio clips that may comprise news business or sports items for example the subject matter of the audio clips selected beforehand by the user of the audio play device . The audio clips may comprise content that was originally or previously in text format and subsequently converted from text format to voice format or other audio format by the personalized audio application . The audio clips may have been converted from really simple syndication RSS feeds hypertext markup language HTML content feeds or other content. The personalized audio application may comprise filtering functionality that may select specifically desired content from really simple syndication RSS feeds hypertext markup language HTML content feeds or other content for insertion into the stream of audio content.

The personalized audio application may be configured to monitor messages sent to the user of the audio play device . At the time the audio play device is playing music or other content received from the personalized audio server the user may be engaged in work or some other activity and not notice when an electronic mail message text message or voice mail message is received. The user may direct that electronic mail and text messages received from certain senders at certain times and marked urgent be converted from text into voice format and inserted into the audio stream for immediate playing or playing at the next practical break such as at the end of a song. The user may also direct that similarly urgent telephone voice mail messages left for the user be immediately played with the music interrupted or played at the next break point.

The personalized audio application comprises the configuration component that enrolls audio play devices for personalized audio services and configures the services upon user instruction. Audio play devices may be mobile telephones already subject to a subscription arrangement with a wireless communications service provider for voice telephone service data services including electronic mail and text messaging and other services. The configuration component may combine the account for the personalized audio services with the existing general account that the user may have with the wireless provider. Enrollment may comprise installation of a user interface in the audio play device that the user may use to make selections of types of music or other content scheduling for personalized audio services and choices for insertion of messages.

The configuration component permits selection of the desired types of music music by specific artists or even specific songs or musical pieces. Music selected may differ by times of day days of the week and physical location of the audio play device . The source of the content to be accessed by the personalized audio application may be specified whether the source is an external content source content library or other source. Music may be drawn from different sources at different times. Music may be streamed at some times and other content such as talk radio may be streamed at other times depending upon how configured. The choice of the source of music and type of music may affect the cost of the personalized audio services if the services are provided on a commercial basis. The audio play device may specify personalized audio services to be available at all times of the day and all days of the weeks or only at selected times and or on selected days. The audio play device may permit the insertion of some commercial content into its personalized audio services and this may affect the cost of the services. The types of acceptable commercial content and permissible scheduling parameters for insertion of commercial content may also be specified.

The configuration component also receives and configures choices about insertion of audio messages into the audio streams. The configuration component records selections for the times and situations in which audio messages may be inserted into audio streams for each type of message. The user may direct specific times and specific senders wherein interruptions are permitted either between songs or during songs or otherwise during the playing of content.

The configuration component may create at least one profile for the audio play device that stores information entered about the preferences for music types and sources specific artists and songs arrangement of content types of permitted interruptions and scheduling specifics for permitted interruptions. When the audio play device may not be a mobile telephone the configuration component may store more than one profile for the audio play device for example when different members of a family each with specific preferences may use the audio play device at different times of the day or days of the week. The configuration component stores profiles in the profiles database .

The personalized audio application also comprises the transmission component that activates when contacted by the audio play device with an active subscription for personalized audio services. Upon receiving contact to initiate a session the transmission component may request a user name or some other identification to determine the proper profile to draw from the profiles database . The transmission component may in each case examine the at least one profile associated with the audio play device to ascertain that the account of the audio play device is in good standing and that the audio play device is entitled under its subscription to receive audio streaming services at that particular time. Assuming these items are in order the transmission component accesses the source of music or other content specified in the profile . The source may be an external music source for example a conventional radio station or a satellite radio source. The source may be a content library comprising a plurality of digital music files. The content library may be publicly accessible on a commercial basis or may be limited to private accesses by specific parties. In an embodiment the user of the audio play device may construct his or her own private content library and provide the personalized audio server access to that private content library .

A customer of a wireless communications services provider accessing personalized integrated audio services may use these services in his automobile. The audio play device for example a mobile telephone may relay the chosen streamed audio content along with audio messages including selected news traffic and other information items as well as messages from selected senders to the automobile s sound system during the customer s daily commute using either a wireless link or a wired link from the mobile telephone to the automobile s sounds system. The customer may also receive on his mobile phone streamed audio content with permitted interruptions during concentrated work periods in his office or other workplace. The customer may for example select his mobile telephone to wirelessly or via wired connection transmit received content and audio messages to his nearby computer via wireless or wired communication links for playing through speakers or headphones plugged into the computer. The normal telephone functionality of receiving and placing calls may remain accessible to the user during these sessions.

The personalized audio application also comprises the insertion component that selectively inserts audio messages into audio streams transmitted to the audio play device . Specifications for permitted interruptions may be stored in the profiles associated with the audio play device . When the transmission component begins a session with the audio play device it accesses one of the profiles appropriate for the particular user of the audio play device . The profile may provide the specifications for insertion of audio messages during the session and may provide a different set of specifications depending on the time of day day of week and location of the audio play device . In an embodiment the personalized audio application could permit the audio play device to specify more than one play list to choose from depending on the user s particular mood for music or other content at that time and location. The play list chosen could incorporate specifications for permitted interruptions that are specific to that play list. An audio play device within at least one associated profile could have several play lists providing types and sources of music artists and specific songs. The audio play device could also have a group of specifications for permitted interruptions that could be chosen from depending on the user s circumstances and preferences at the time. The user could have the option to choose from a group of play lists and combine the chosen play list with a particular specification for permitted interruptions.

The insertion component stands ready for the personalized audio server to provide messages signals or interrupts indicating that an audio message permitted by the currently in effect specification for permitted interruptions described in the profile has been received. On a Sunday afternoon in the autumn the audio play device may permit interruptions between songs to be provided football score updates for specific games only. During the daytime on business days the audio play device may permit interruptions at any time even in the middle of a song if the price of a certain publicly traded stock reaches a certain predefined point. On weekdays late in the afternoon the audio play device may permit interruptions between or during songs for certain traffic updates. During sessions at those times when the audio play device permits interruptions for audio messages for those types of information the personalized audio server maintains an open connection with the information sources of the desired information.

In practice the personalized audio server may provide personalized audio services to a plurality of audio play devices and may maintain persistent open connections with a plurality of information sources of popular content. News sports traffic stock quote weather and traffic information is generally received from information sources sources that sell or otherwise provide their information to the public. The profile read at the beginning of the session provides the identity of the information sources . The personalized audio server generates separate distinct and independent streams of audio content for each audio play device accessing personalized integrated audio services.

The insertion component inserts the audio message between songs or during a currently playing song if so directed. If content is inserted during songs the transmission component may record the playing of the song in a buffer until the audio message has completed playing and resume playing of the song from the buffer at the point at which the interruption began If the streamed audio content was being relayed from an external content source the transmission component can catch up with the audio feed from the external content source by streaming the audio content to the audio play device during commercial or other breaks for example taken by the external content source . The user of the audio play device may use a control available in the user interface to cancel or bypass the playing of an audio message and return immediately to the audio stream.

Messages sent by friends family members business associates and other individuals intended specifically for the user of the audio play device may at certain times be permitted to interrupt the audio stream of a session. These permitted interruptions are configurable by the audio play device and may be described in schedules of permitted interruptions contained in the profile . The user of the audio play device may wish all messages of any kind from his or her children or spouse to be converted to voice content and played immediately. The user may specify only text messages to be converted to audio and played immediately along with voice mail messages from family members. The user may specify the immediate interruption of streamed audio for some audio messages received from business associates and may specify that such audio messages be played between songs. The user may vary the schedule and rules for insertion of audio messages of various kinds from different senders by time of day day of the week user location and other variables. The user may create various schedules of such permitted interruptions and combine them with play lists of audio content within a plurality of profiles .

In addition to audio stream being interrupted for audio messages immediately and at logical breaks in the audio streams the personalized audio application may be configured to provide newly received audio messages at specified intervals for example every five fifteen or thirty minutes. The personalized audio application may cause streamed audio to fade or reduce in volume while an audio message is being played instead of stopping the audio streaming. The personalized audio application may permit the volume or other characteristics of audio messages such as type and tone of voice and intensity of inserted audio messages to be selectively varied according to sender type of message and urgency. The personalized audio application may permit prioritization of audio messages by senders and types of messages and may suggest newly available audio content such as new music to the user for potential placement in a play list or creation of a new play list. The personalized audio server may detect the physical location of the audio play device and may suggest a profile to use based in part on the location of the audio play device .

The base transceiver station may be any of a cellular wireless base station for example a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Communications System UMTS and or Long term Evolution LTE cellular wireless base station a World wide Interoperable Microwave Access WiMAX base station a WiFi access point a femtocell or other wireless access devices. While depicts only one base transceiver station in an embodiment a plurality of base transceiver stations may be existent and in operation.

The network promotes communication between the components of the system . The network may be any communication network including a public data network PDN a public switched telephone network PSTN a private network and or a combination thereof.

Turning now to a processor implemented method of providing personalized integrated audio is provided. Beginning at block a computer creates an audio stream to transmit to an audio play device and inserts a music from a source into the audio stream. The computer may be the personalized audio server and the source of the music may be at least one external content source for example a radio broadcast or a content library . The personalized audio server may take this action because the audio play device initiated a session for audio streaming services. The personalized audio application may access a profile from the profiles database that describes the music that the user of the audio play device wishes to hear and further describes the permitted interruptions during that session.

At block the computer interrupts the insertion of the music into the audio stream. The personalized audio application received a message from one of the information sources for example a traffic information provider or received a message from one of the senders permitted to interrupt as described in the profile .

At block the computer inserts a first audio message into the audio stream wherein the first audio message is selected by the computer from subscribed information services based on at least one of a time and place of the audio play device . The personalized audio server may have loaded a profile for the audio play device based on the time of day and the detected location of the audio play device . If the information source is a traffic information provider with which the user of the audio play device has a subscription the personalized audio application may have received a traffic report about a geographic area or roadway of interest to the user of the audio play device . The personalized audio application inserts the first audio message with the information about the traffic condition into the audio stream presently being provided to the audio play device . Whether the personalized audio application interrupts the audio stream and plays the first audio message immediately or waits until the end of the song currently streaming or until another break point depends on the configuration entered by the user into the profile and read by the personalized audio application .

At block the computer inserts a second audio message into the audio stream wherein the second audio message comprises information converted from a text format of a message addressed to a communication system of the audio play device to an audio format. A family member business associate or other party preauthorized by the user of the audio play device may have sent a text message to the user. The personalized audio application converts the text message into audio format as the second audio message and inserts the second audio message into the audio stream. As with the actions at block whether the personalized audio application interrupts the audio stream and plays the second audio message immediately or waits until the end of the song currently streaming or until another break point depends on the configuration entered by the user into the profile and read by the personalized audio application .

At block after the completion of one of the first audio message and the second audio message the computer resumes insertion of the music into the audio stream. When audio content for example music is being received from an external content source such as a radio broadcaster or an Internet radio provider delivering content using the internet protocol IP the personalized audio application may store the received content in a buffer during a period that an audio message is provided to the audio play device . When the audio message is complete and the interruption is ended the personalized audio application resumes the audio stream where it left off at the time of the interruption by streaming the content stored in the buffer. The personalized audio application may then catch up with or become synchronized with the live broadcast from the external content source by continuing to stream the music or other content while the external content source has taken a commercial or other break from its playing of music.

Turning now to a method of providing personalized integrated audio is provided. Beginning at block a computer for example the personalized audio server analyzes a profile of a first user to identify a first user music listening preference.

At block the computer selects a first music from a source based on the first user music listening preference. The source may be at least one of the external content sources comprising a conventional radio station satellite radio provider or another radio broadcaster that may provide content using the internet protocol IP . The source may also be a content library storing digital audio files.

At block the computer composes a first audio stream to transmit to the audio play device of the first user wherein the first audio stream comprises the first music. At block the computer transmits the first audio stream to the audio play device of the first user over a communication network wherein at least a portion of the communication network is provided by a wireless link.

At block the computer identifies an interruption point in the first music and inserts a first audio message into the first audio stream after the interruption point wherein the first audio message is one of a news message a weather forecast message and a sport score message. The interruption point may be during the playing of a song in the first music or at the end of the song. The profile that may be read at the beginning of the personalized integrated audio session may describe appropriate interruption points.

At block the computer converts one of an electronic mail message and a text message to a second audio message. At block the computer inserts the second audio message into the first audio stream.

The present disclosure has described herein embodiments wherein a wireless communications services provider may operate the personalized audio server and provide the personalized integrated audio services under subscription arrangement to the audio play device . Inherent in the descriptions of the embodiments is the understanding that the wireless communications services provider also provides voice telephone and data services that permit the provider to directly furnish text electronic mail voice mail messages to the audio play device through the provider s messaging and storage infrastructure. In an embodiment the wireless communications services provider or other operator of the personalized audio server may not provide services that directly furnish text electronic mail voice mail messages to the audio play device through the provider s messaging and storage infrastructure. The audio play device may access those services from another entity. In such an embodiment the personalized audio application may provide an application programming interface API that enables the connection with outside providers of those services. Communication channels created using this application programming interface may enable the personalized audio application to receive text electronic mail and voice mail messages from those outside providers and may enable the personalized audio application to provide these messages as audio messages as described herein.

The mobile device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface and or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The mobile device may execute a web browser application which enables the display to show a web page. The web page may be obtained via wireless communications with a base transceiver station BTS a wireless network access node a peer mobile device or any other wireless communication network or system. While a single base transceiver station is illustrated it is understood that the wireless communication system may comprise additional base transceiver stations. In some instances the mobile device may be in communication with multiple base transceiver stations at the same time. The base transceiver station or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the mobile device has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately the mobile device may access the base transceiver station through a peer mobile device acting as an intermediary in a relay type or hop type of connection.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide 20 virtual servers on 4 physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

