---

title: Providing direct manipulation of an analytics data visualization within an analytics report
abstract: A direct manipulation event associated with a chart of an analytics report can be detected. The event can be a user interface input and the chart can be an information graphic. The graphic can be a graphically rendered HTML compliant element and a data set. The report can conform to a JAVASCRIPT OBJECT NOTATION (JSON) format. The analytics report can be presented within a browser. An action can be run responsive to the detecting. The action can be an immediate rendering of the graphic based on the event. When the action executes a request for data not in the data set data from a different data set can be obtained. When the action executes a request for data in the data set, the data from the data set can be automatically retrieved. The analytics data can be immediately rendered as a chart within the canvas element of an HTML document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037964&OS=09037964&RS=09037964
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09037964
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120112
---
The present invention relates to the field of business analytics and more particularly to providing direct manipulation of an analytics data visualization within an analytics report.

Analytics often provide key insight into industry changes which companies can frequently leverage to achieve success. Analytic processes can analyze and organize data e.g. from a database into human readable analytics reports which can aid business analysts in making critical business decisions. Frequently reports can be generated from enormous data stores e.g. Big Data which can reduce large quantities of data into smaller intelligible data sets. These data sets can provide a limited amount of analytics data in the form of charts. For example analytics reports often include a number of static representations like pie charts bar charts and line charts which indicate trends in a data set. These charts can be atomic graphical objects e.g. JPGs PNGs which can be presented within a Web document. For example an analytics report can be a Hypertext Markup Language HTML document including an image of a sales chart. That is the charts within traditional analytics reports can be static entities which the user cannot manipulate further without manually refining the queries associated with a given chart. Manual refining typically involves recreating the report which can consume computing resources e.g. network storage unnecessarily. Further manual refining can be time consuming and difficult for users with no experience in analytics report authoring.

In many instances analytics reports can be accessed easily as Web documents via a Web browser. In these instances mobile devices are frequently utilized to view charts and or graphs of analytics reports. For example business executives who frequently travel can utilize mobile phones to access pivotal analytics reports. As such mobile devices which frequently have limited capabilities e.g. power processor screen size constraints can present major hurdles for obtaining analytics data not presented within an analytics reports. For example large data sets are often associated with analytics reporting tools and cannot be communicated to mobile devices to perform report creation capabilities. Additionally many analytics reporting software can be complex server side tools which cannot be utilized on a mobile device. Consequently analytics reports can benefit from improved customization and enhanced usability.

One aspect of the present invention can include a system an apparatus a computer program product and a method for providing dynamic information graphic customization to an analytics report. A direct manipulation event associated with a chart of an analytics report can be detected. The event can be a user interface input and the chart can be an information graphic. The graphic can be a graphically rendered HTML compliant element and a data set. The report can conform to a JAVASCRIPT OBJECT NOTATION JSON format. The analytics report can be presented within a browser. An action can be run responsive to the detecting. The action can be an immediate rendering of the graphic based on the event. When the action executes a request for data not in the data set data from a different data set can be obtained. When the action executes a request for data in the data set the data from the data set can be automatically retrieved. The analytics data can be immediately rendered as a chart within the canvas element of an HTML document.

Another aspect of the present invention can include an apparatus a computer program product a system and a method for providing dynamic information graphic customization to an analytics report. An Extensible Markup Language XML formatted analytics report associated with a Representational State Transfer REST compliant communication can be identified. The REST compliant communication can be associated with a requesting entity. The report can be dynamically converted to a JavaScript Object Notation JSON format and can be conveyed to the requesting entity as an enhanced report. The converting can occur within the presentation layer. The presentation layer can be a data organization layer of the Open Systems Interconnect OSI model. A chart of the enhanced report can be presented within the canvas element of a Hypertext Markup Language HTML document. The HTML document can be presented within a browser interface of the requesting entity. The chart can be immediately modified within the application level of the browser interface responsive to a user interface event. The event can be a user initiated input manipulating a portion of the chart.

Yet another aspect of the present invention can include an apparatus a computer program product a method and a system for providing dynamic information graphic customization to an analytics report. A reporting engine can be configured to permit object level analytics report deconstruction manipulation and rendering of a chart within an analytics report. The analytics report can be a JavaScript Object Notation JSON compliant report. The analytics report can be a dynamically generated report and a previously generated report. The analytics report can be associated with analytics data. A data store can be able to persist an analytics report a conversion ruleset and a rendering ruleset.

A reporting engine can be configured to permit object level analytics report deconstruction manipulation and rendering. The analytics report can be a JavaScript Object Notation JSON compliant report. The analytics report can be a dynamically generated report and a previously generated report. The analytics report can be associated with analytics data. A data store can be able to persist an analytics report and a rendering ruleset.

The present disclosure is a solution for providing direct manipulation of an analytics data visualization within an analytics report. In the solution a reporting framework can permit an information graphic e.g. chart within an analytics report to be dynamically manipulated within an interface. Manipulation can trigger the visual modification of an information graphic. Visual modification can include but is not limited to combining two or more charts dispersing a chart adding a data set to a chart removing a data set from a chart and the like. Manipulation can include but is not limited to drag and drop select multiple select hover disperse and the like. It should be appreciated that the visual modification is a presentation layer functionality and can be rendered immediately.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction handling system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction handling system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In scenario enhanced charts can be dynamically altered based on user input e.g. direct manipulation . That is the chart can be graphically altered within the interface through direct manipulation of chart elements e.g. Element A Element B . For example a user can reorder the elements of a bar graph e.g. Chart B manually moving each bar element e.g. Element B to a desired position within the graph. In scenario query and report data can be communications which can permit the dynamic properties of enhanced report and or enhanced chart to be achieved. It should be appreciated that scenario are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard.

As used herein an enhanced report can be an analytics reporting artifact able to present analytics data textually and or graphically within browser . Report can include but is not limited to layout data metadata settings and the like. Layout can be a Web formatted document including layout information which can be utilized to render chart from data . Layout can be associated with the visual rendering of data which can include but is not limited to a page layout a graphics layout and the like. Layout information can include but is not limited to position size scaling data chroma information presentation information e.g. style sheets and the like. For example layout can include information for positioning of enhanced chart e.g. Chart A within a Web page. It should be appreciated that layout permits the separation of presentation e.g. style and data e.g. content and can enable easy manipulation of analytic report charts using conventional client side technologies e.g. JavaScript CSS . That is report and chart manipulation can be browser independent. In one instance report can be a component of a Web application data mashup. In the instance chart can be a visually modifiable portion of the data mashup.

In one instance layout can conform to a Hypertext Markup Language HTML format. In the instance layout can be programmatically altered using JavaScript and or Cascading Style Sheet executable code. For example layout can utilize features of CSS3 e.g. canvas element to enable in browser manipulation of chart which is traditionally unavailable. That is report can represent an improvement over traditional static analytics reports which can be visually immutable without special reporting software tools. Data can be a sub set of analytics data e.g. Big Data . For example data can be generated from a cost projection analysis query of a sales database. It should be appreciated that data can include data from repository data from a different repository and the like. For example data can include analytics data associated with multiple queries of three different databases. Chart can be a presentation of data utilizing layout . Chart can include but is not limited to a diagram a graph a table a map and a list. Chart type can include but is not limited to a bar chart a pie chart a line chart a stacked bar chart a histogram and the like. Chart can include traditional and or non traditional components. Traditional components can include axes data representation e.g. bar line section and the like. Non traditional components can include but is not limited to a grab handle e.g. for repositioning an interactive border e.g. visual notification a control panel and the like. For example each chart within report can be associated with a control panel toolbar which can present useful functionality e.g. disperse select share associated with the chart .

In enhanced report creation scenario report can differ from traditional analytics reports which can include information organized in a graphical manner conforming to a traditional and or proprietary image format. For example a data can be traditionally rendered as a bitmap image of a bar chart indicating the sales for a historic year. Analytics data can be automatically processed to permit dynamic visual customization through the use of reporting engine . Data can be conveyed to a reporting engine via one or more conventional and or proprietary mechanisms. Reporting engine can perform conversion which can convert data to an enhanced report compliant format. In one instance the data can be an Extensible Markup Language XML compliant document which can be automatically converted into an enhanced report which can be a JavaScript Object Notation JSON compliant document.

The conversion can be subject to one or more conversion rules e.g. rules settings which can be automatically and or manually established. The enhanced report can be communicated to device which can present report within browser . Within browser user customizations can be performed through direct manipulation of chart elements which can be illustrated within scenario .

In enhanced chart manipulation scenario a user can dynamically interact with enhanced chart within a browser . Report can be manipulated at the application level by browser functionality from user input e.g. direct manipulation . In one example enhanced chart can include Chart A and Chart B which can be combined responsive to a drag and drop action . That is a traditional user interaction input can permit easy interaction and manipulation of chart . In drag and drop action a user can select Element A of Chart A drag the Element A to Chart B and drop the Element A onto Chart B. The action can trigger a creation of a stacked Chart C including Element A data and Chart B data.

In one embodiment direct manipulation actions can cause the presentation of visual and or aural notifications within browser . For example the perimeter of stacked Chart C can blink three times upon presentation to alert a user of the chart creation modification. It should be appreciated that visual notifications e.g. visual cues can include animations transitions chroma changes and the like.

It should be appreciated that action represents an exemplary user action and can include other actions e.g. direct manipulation . For example a user can drill down on a Chart A e.g. obtain more information about Element A by double clicking on Element A. In one instance a user can perform a layout reflow by moving Chart A and Chart B to different locations within the browser . It should be appreciated that the disclosure can permit robust chart manipulation common to analytics report tooling. For example the disclosure can replicate basic chart manipulation e.g. look and feel of an IBM COGNOS ADAPTIVE ANALYTICS software.

In enhanced report update scenario engine can function to enable adaptable capabilities of report by permitting report to be dynamically updated. In one embodiment direct manipulation actions upon report can trigger query to be produced. Direct manipulation can include but is not limited to a drag and drop action a select action a multi select action a hover action a disperse action e.g. deconstruct and the like. In one instance query can be a local query which can access information within data . In another instance query can be a remote query which can access a non local data repository . In the instance query can be communicated to engine which can utilize data repository to produce report data . For example analytics data not originally included in data can be retrieved and presented within report . That is report can be dynamically updated based on user interaction and or preferences. Report can be continually modified during a session and can be optionally persisted enabling exhaustive manipulations to be saved. In one instance report can be persisted as a template which can be utilized to generate subsequent reports which can mimic the layout of report .

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be understood that browser can include but is not limited to a Web browser a content browser and the like. As used herein a Web browser can include but is not limited to MOZILLA FIREFOX APPLE SAFARI GOOGLE CHROME and the like. It should be appreciated that direct manipulation can include traditional and or proprietary user inputs. For example gesture based input common to a GOOGLE ANDROID device e.g. device can be supported utilizing specialized input handling rules.

In step an enhanced report is received within a browser. The report can include one or more portions of data and or layout information. In step the enhanced chart associated with the report can be selected. Selection can be automatic or manually initiated. In one instance a user can utilize a keyboard to select one or more enhanced charts to be manipulated. In step if the selected chart is mutable the method can continue to step else continue to step . In step a direct manipulation notification associated with the chart can be optionally presented. For example the notification can include highlighting the border of the chart to indicate adjustment is permitted.

In one instance the disclosure can permit security measures to be associated with the enhanced report. Security measures can include authorization mechanisms verification actions mutability settings and the like. For example an enhanced chart can be locked restricting a user from changing the type of chart but permitting other adjustment actions to be permitted.

In step a direction manipulation event associated with the chart can be received. In one instance the event can be received by an input handler e.g. input handler associated with the browser. In step an appropriate direct manipulation action can be determined and processed upon the chart. In one instance the manipulation action can be determined by analyzing one or more rulesets. In one embodiment direct manipulation ruleset can permit the association of touchscreen gestures to trigger a direct manipulation action. That is the disclosure can permit complex behaviors to be associated with a direct manipulation action. Rulesets can be heuristically determined based on historic actions group settings and the like. In step if the direct manipulation is successful the method can proceed to step else continue to step . In step a direct manipulation notification can be presented. The notification can be a visual and or aural notification. In one instance the notification can be a pop up dialog indicating an action failure. In another instance notification can include a sound notification such as an operating system error sound.

In step the chart can be rendered appropriately e.g. ruleset preferences based on the direct manipulation action. In step if another direct manipulation event associated with the chart is detected the method can return to step else continue to step . In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Method A can be performed in real time or near real time. Method A can be performed within the presentation layer of a client computing device. Method A can be performed in serial and or parallel.

In step a request for an analytics data can be received from a requesting entity. For example the entity can be a client device such as a mobile phone. In step the request can be processed and an appropriate resource can be identified. Resource identification can include manual and or automatic processes. In one instance a lookup table can be utilized to assist in the identification of an appropriate resource. In step a query can be communicated to an analytics engine to retrieve the requested data. In step a response can be received including requested data. In step the response can be processed and analytics data can be converted to an enhanced report.

In step the enhanced report can be communicated to the requesting entity. In step if another request is received the method can return to step else continue to step . In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Method B can be performed in real time or near real time. Method B can be performed within the presentation layer of a server computing device. Method A can be performed in serial and or parallel.

Analytics server can be a hardware software entity able to execute reporting engine . Server can include but is not limited to reporting engine data store interface enhanced table and the like. Server functionality can include but is not limited to authentication verification analytics collection data analysis data mining session tracking and the like. In one instance server can be a component of an IBM COGNOS software.

Reporting engine can be a hardware software element configured to facilitate enhanced report creation and or interaction. Engine can include but is not limited to report handler converter notification component settings and the like. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to component communication enhanced table creation table maintenance and the like. In one instance engine can be a networked computing element communicatively linked to server . In one embodiment engine functionality can be encapsulated within a Web based service e.g. IBM COGNOS MASHUP SERVICE . In one instance engine functionality can be a component of an abstraction layer associated with a reporting tooling.

Report handler can be a hardware software entity able to enable report usage. Handler functionality can include but is not limited to enhanced report creation report maintenance and the like. Handler can be utilized to retrieve analytics report analytics data associated with report and or analytics data . Handler can be permit communication with data repository allowing query and retrieval of data . Handler can be utilized to disassemble and or reconstruct data associated with an enhanced report .

Converter can be a hardware software element for converting analytics data and or analytics report to an enhanced report . Converter functionality can include but is not limited to data conversion data normalization data import export character encoding conversion and the like. In one instance converter can convert an Extensible Markup Language XML formatted document to a JavaScript Object Notation JSON formatted document. It should be appreciated that converter is not limited to converting XML and can convert flat text data objects and the like. It should be understood that JSON can be one target format and converter can be configured e.g. rules to convert data to one or more formats.

Notification component can be a hardware software entity for generating and or presenting a notification associated with an enhanced report . Component functionality can include but is not limited to a notification generation notification forwarding and the like. Notification can include but is not limited to an electronic message e.g. report creation availability a user interface e.g. chart manipulation successful dialog and Short Message Service SMS voice notification text exchange notification and the like. In one instance notification can be a JavaScript pop up dialog presented within interface .

Settings can be one or more rulesets for establishing the behavior of server engine and or system . Settings can include but is not limited to report handler settings converter options notification component settings and the like. In one instance settings can include enhanced table options enhanced report settings and the like. Setting can be manually and or automatically determined. In one instance setting can be configured via interface .

Enhanced table can be a data set for enabling an enhanced report configuration tracking. Table can include but is not limited to an enhanced report identifier an analytics data set a user identity and the like. For example entry of table can permit user e.g. User A manipulations associated with an enhanced report e.g. Enh Rep A to be tracked and or maintained. It should be appreciated that table can enable session based tracking intra session based tracking and the like. Table can be manually and or automatically generated. In one instance table can be presented within interface . In one embodiment table can permit multiple user manipulations associated with a collaboration session.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist analytics report enhanced table settings and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database.

Analytics report can be a traditional analytics document associated with an analytics data . Report can include textual content and or graphical content. Report can include an analytics data visually presented as a static image element. Image element format can include but is not limited to Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG Portable Network Graphics PNG and the like. Report can be associated with an analytics reporting software e.g. report authoring suite .

Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction and or presentation of conversion rules and or settings . Interface can be present within the context of a Web browser application an analytics software suite and the like. In one embodiment interface can be a screen of an IBM COGNOS software. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. In one instance interface can be communicatively linked to server .

Conversion rules can be one or rulesets for establishing the behavior of converter . Rules can be automatically and or manually established. Rules syntax can include but is not limited to natural language syntax structured syntax and the like. In one instance rules can be presented within an administrative interface e.g. interface . It should be appreciated that rules can be dynamically altered during engine run time to improve conversion efficiency and or accuracy.

Computing device can be a hardware software entity permitting the operation of browser . Device can include but is not limited to browser user preferences interface and the like. Computing device can include but is not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computing device a PDA a mobile phone and the like. Computing device can be communicatively linked with interface .

Browser can be a hardware software element for retrieving interacting and or presenting enhanced report . Browser can include but is not limited to rendering engine input handler and the like. Browser can execute within an operating system of a device . Browser can be communicatively linked with interface . Browser can receive user input within interface e.g. via input handler and can perform application level rendering e.g. using engine responsive to the input.

Rendering engine can be a hardware software entity able to visually present report . Engine can include but is not limited to a layout engine a Web browser engine and the like. Engine can display formatted content which can include but is not limited to Hypertext Markup Language HTML HTML5 Extensible Markup Language and the like. In one instance engine can process JavaScript and or Cascading Style Sheet e.g. CSS3 to enable dynamic manipulation of report .

Rendering ruleset can be one or more rules for establishing the behavior of engine and or report presentation. Rules can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance rules can be associated with an enhanced chart type enhanced report and the like. For example a rendering rule can be established for visually separating elements of an enhanced chart when a user initiates a disperse gesture. It should be appreciated that ruleset can be arbitrarily complex and can be granular.

Input handler can be a hardware software element for receiving user input associated with interface and or browser . Handler can be communicatively linked to hardware and or software associated with device . For example handler can receive mouse based input to enable interaction with enhanced charts within enhanced report . Handler can communicate input to engine which can utilize ruleset to appropriately render enhanced report .

User preferences can be one or more settings associated with a user of device server and or system . Preferences can include but is not limited to gesture shortcuts saved templates and the like. Preferences can be automatically and or manually established. In one instance preferences can be utilized by engine during rendering of report . In the instance preferences can be applied to ruleset to permit robust configuration of report .

Enhanced report can include multiple analytic reports multiple enhanced reports and the like. In one instance enhanced report can be associated with a Uniform Resource Identifier URI . In the instance report can be retrieved from a Uniform Resource Locator URL . In one embodiment report can be associated with persisted as a template permitting users to rapidly recreate highly configurable reports. In the embodiment interface can permit template manipulation to allow iterative refinement of report . It should be appreciated that report can be continually updated as data changes.

Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction and or presentation of enhanced report rendering rules and or preferences . Interface can be present within the context of a Web browser application a content browser and the like. In one embodiment interface can be a screen of a rich Internet application. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. In one instance interface can be communicatively linked to computing device .

Network can be an electrical and or computer network connecting one or more system components. Network can include but is not limited to twisted pair cabling optical fiber coaxial cable and the like. Network can include any combination of wired and or wireless components. Network topologies can include but is not limited to bus star mesh and the like. Network types can include but is not limited to Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN VPN and the like.

Data repository can be a hardware software element for persisting analytics data . Repository can include but is not limited to analytics data analytics report and the like. Repository can include but is not limited to a Storage Area Network SAN a Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Repository can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. In one instance repository can be an information repository. It should be appreciated that repository can include multiple repositories which can be proximate or distally located. In one instance repository can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database. In one embodiment repository can be a data warehouse a federated database and the like.

Analytics data can be an analytics artifact associated with a collection of numbers characters images and the like. Data can include qualitative attributes quantitative attributes and the like. In one instance data can include business analytics Web analytics and the like. It should be appreciated that data can include unstructured data structured data and the like. In one embodiment data can include a Big Data entity.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that notification component can be an optional component of engine and can be present in client . It should be understood that one or more components within system can be optional components permitting that the disclosure functionality be retained. It should be understood that engine components can be optional components providing that engine functionality is maintained. It should be appreciated that one or more components of engine can be combined and or separated based on functionality usage and the like.

It should be appreciated that the embodiment represents one configuration and can be modified to operate to fit existing systems. The embodiment can operate in part as a client side e.g. iOS Android process which can execute as HTML5 and JavaScript running in a browser e.g. browser . The client can utilize a Java based server side application e.g. REST let running within the same network domain as the analytics compute node. The server side application can invokes Web services provided by the analytics engine . In one configuration the underlying server side architecture can use a REST framework. The Web service invocation can return a report in XML format which can be then converted into a JSON JavaScript Object Notation object which can be sent to the mobile client . The client can process the JSON object and display the report in the browser.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention any regard. The disclosure can be associated with a traditional and or proprietary cache enabling rapid retrieval of data and or report .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be run substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be run in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

