---

title: Extending boom for stabilizing projectiles launched from an apparatus
abstract: A projectile for launch from an apparatus is disclosed herein. In some embodiments, the projectile includes a body; a boom having a first end extendable from the body; and an armature coupled to the first end of the boom, wherein the armature is configured to be moveable along and launchable from the apparatus and the armature is configured to be separable from the first end of the extended boom after launch from the apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08590453&OS=08590453&RS=08590453
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08590453
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120215
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to projectiles and more particularly to a projectile for launch from an apparatus.

An electromagnetic apparatus which may be commonly known as a electromagnetic EM gun or rail gun may be used to launch a projectile at a hypervelocity for example such as about Mach 3 or greater. Projectiles launched from an electromagnetic apparatus typically have much higher muzzle velocities than from conventional propellant based cannons or guns. For example a standard 155 mm howitzer using the highest charge can propel projectiles at about Mach 2.6.

Unlike a projectile that may be launched through a rifled barrel of a cannon or the like a projectile launched from two parallel rails of the electromagnetic apparatus does not spin and therefore may require stabilization to ensure that the projectile is accurately delivered to a desired target. Further because of the high velocities at which the projectile is launched from the electromagnetic apparatus other common forms of stabilization besides spinning such as a plurality of fins distributed about the projectile can shear off from the projectile in response to the sudden onset of fluid flow or drag on each fin at the muzzle exit or the electromagnetic apparatus.

Embodiments of a projectile for launch from an apparatus are disclosed herein. In some embodiments the projectile includes a body a boom having a first end extendable from the body and an armature coupled to the first end of the boom wherein the armature is configured to be moveable along and launchable from the apparatus and the armature is configured to be separable from the first end of the extended boom after launch from the apparatus.

In other embodiments the projectile for launch from an electromagnetic apparatus includes a body a cylinder moveable with respect to the body wherein a first end of the cylinder is extendable from the body and wherein a second end of the cylinder remains within the body when the cylinder is fully extended and prevents the cylinder from separating from the body a plurality of fins or a flare cone disposed about the first end of the cylinder a platform having a first surface coupled to the first end of the cylinder and a first plate and a second plate disposed on opposing sides of an opposing second surface of the platform and extending from the opposing second surface in the same direction in which the cylinder extends from body wherein the first plate is configured to contact the upper surfaces of each of the opposing parallel rails of the electromagnetic apparatus and wherein the second plate is configured to contact second surfaces of the opposing parallel rails such that a force formed by the contact of the first and second plates with the first and second surfaces of the parallel rails propels the platform along the parallel rails and wherein the platform is configured to be separable from the first end of the cylinder after the cylinder has fully extended from the body after launch from the electromagnetic apparatus.

In addition in further embodiments the projectile for launch from an apparatus includes a body having a base a boom moveable with respect to the body and having a portion extendable from the base and a plurality of fins or a flare cone disposed about the portion of the boom wherein after the projectile is launched from the apparatus the plurality of fins or the flare cone stabilize the projectile in flight.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a projectile for launch from an apparatus. The projectiles disclosed herein advantageously provide stabilization thereto during flight using an extendable boom that deploys from the body of the projectile after the projectile is launched from the apparatus.

In some embodiments the apparatus may be an electromagnetic apparatus such as an EM gun or rail gun which launches the projectile at hypersonic speed. For instance hypersonic for EM guns is generally defined as speeds over Mach 5. However it will be appreciated that in other embodiments the apparatus may be a propellant based cannon gun artillery launching apparatus or the like which launches the projectile at slower speeds. For instance an explosive or other propellant inside the projectile or the launching apparatus may generate the force to the launch the projectile. Other projectile launching apparatuses for launching or deploying the projectile which do not use an explosive or propellant might also be used in further embodiments. Depending on particulars of the launching apparatus a pushing device such as an armature that is used to accelerate the projectile in the apparatus may not be necessary.

The projectile may be any flying object that might not be rotated during flight and or is otherwise unstable during flight. The projectile may be launched in air and or water. In the description below a projectile for use with an electromagnetic apparatus is described. It will be appreciated that the disclosure of the projectile for use with the electromagnetic apparatus may be similarly configured for use with other types of launching apparatuses and or for stabilized flight of the projectile. The projectile could be further spun or rotated for additional stabilization.

In one embodiment the projectile may be configured to provide the form fit and function of a M107 155 mm artillery projectile. Of course the projectile may be configured to provide the form fit and function of other conventional artillery projectiles also.

The projectile for use with an electromagnetic apparatus may include a body a boom moveable with respect to the body and having a first end extendable from the body and an armature coupled to the first end of the boom .

A portion of the boom may be deployed from the body after the projectile is launched from the apparatus to provide stabilization to the projectile during flight in multiple ways. In some embodiments fluid flow relative to a portion of the projectile during flight may cause the boom to extend from the body . For instance drag on the armature of the projectile may cause the first end of the boom to extend from the body . Fluid flow relative to other portions of the projectile such as on exposed portions of fins or a flare cone disposed about the first end of the boom may similarly be used deploy the boom from the body . And fluid flow through one or more ports not shown into the body of the projectile may likewise be used to deploy the boom . It is further feasible that the boom may also be extended during flight using an actuator e.g. a spring mechanism a motor a piston cylinder unit solenoid or the like provided in the projectile with or without the aid of fluid flow. The actuator may be activated after a predetermined time a detected or sensed parameter such as force or acceleration speed velocity distance or other flight parameter of the projectile a control signal or any combination thereof. For example a flight controller processor and one or more sensors not shown may be further provided in the projectile for these purposes.

The boom may include a cylinder moveable with respect to the body wherein the first end of the cylinder is extendable from the body and wherein a second end of the cylinder remains within the body when the cylinder is fully extended and prevents the cylinder from decoupling or separating from the body as illustrated in . For example the second end may have a diameter that is larger than the diameter of an opening in the body through with the cylinder may be movably disposed. Alternatively other stopping mechanisms such as cap or the like disposed on the second end to prevent the second end from passing through the opening . The cylinder is one exemplary embodiment of the boom and non circular cross sections for the boom may be used in some embodiments. The cylinder may be formed of any suitable material such as one or more of steel aluminum Al or other high strength structural materials. In some embodiments the cylinder may be solid in cross section although in other embodiments it may be hollow in cross section. The cylinder may be a rod in some instances.

A plurality of fins may be disposed about the first end of the boom e.g. the cylinder . The fins may be disposed symmetrically about the cylinder . In some embodiments up to about 6 fins may be used although it should be appreciated that the number size and or arrangement of the fins may be configured depending on the use of the projectile . As illustrated in each fin may extend in a radial direction from the cylinder however each fin may not extend radially beyond the footprint of the body as illustrated. For example the larger footprint of the body may reduce any drag experienced by the fins during hypervelocity flight e.g. greater than or equal to 3.5 Mach and thus may reduce the possibility of the fins shearing off the cylinder . In some embodiments a flare cone may be used in addition to or as an alternative to fins. The flare cone may provide higher drag and be effective for short range applications whereas fins may provide lower drag for an extended range of the projectile in some instances.

As illustrated in the plurality of fins may be disposed in the opening within the body prior to launch from the electromagnetic apparatus. As illustrated in the opening may be adapted on the armature facing side of the body such that the first end of the cylinder and the plurality of fins are at least flush with a surface of the armature facing side of the body prior to launch i.e. are flush or disposed within the body . The fins may be made from similar materials as discussed above with respect to the cylinder . The fins may be formed with the cylinder as a single member or alternatively may be fastened to the first end of the cylinder by any suitable methods such as welding or the like.

The first end of the cylinder may be coupled to the armature by a fastening mechanism that is adapted to release and or break from the first end of the boom e.g. the cylinder in response to a force caused by drag on the armature when the projectile is launched to separate the armature from the first end of the boom e.g. the cylinder . In some embodiments the fastening mechanism may include a pin coupling the first end of the boom to the armature as illustrated in . The pin may have a first end coupled to the first end of the cylinder and a second end coupled to a first surface of the armature . For example as illustrated in the pin may be released from the first end of the cylinder and remain lodged in the armature . However in some embodiments the pin may be designed so as to break resulting in a portion of the pin remaining in both the armature and the first end of the boom after separation of the armature from the first end .

The body may have any suitable shape consistent with a high velocity or hypervelocity projectile in various embodiments. For example as illustrated in the body may have a conical shape with an increasing cross section from a nose cap to a base or an increasing cross section from a nose cap to a location disposed between the nose cap and the base with a substantially constant cross section from the location to the base . The base may oppose the armature . The opening may be disposed through the base from an armature facing side of the base to a compartment facing side of the base . The opening may be adapted on the armature facing side such that the first end of the boom e.g. the cylinder and the plurality of fins disposed about the first end are at least flush with a surface of the armature facing side before the boom is extended from the body .

A compartment disposed within the body and extending from the base in a second direction opposite a direction which the first end of the boom extends from the body . The boom may be movably disposed through the base and the compartment as illustrated in . The compartment may be utilized for holding a payload such as explosives a penetrating rod a shaped charge or the like. Projectile thus may be configured as a bomb a warhead munitions or the like. In addition as illustrated in a ballast weight may be optionally disposed in the compartment to provide additional ballast to the projectile during flight. For example the ballast weight may comprise any suitable material compatible with any of the aforementioned exemplary payloads.

The nose cap may be coupled to a base opposing end of the compartment as illustrated in . The nose cap may comprise any suitable material such as aluminum Al steel or the like. Although illustrated as a separate member in the Figures it will be appreciated that the nose cap may be integrated with the compartment in some instances. The nose cap may be utilized for any suitable purpose such as to reduce drag on the projectile while in flight or for example as a fuse mechanism by which the payload of the projectile may be detonated on impact with or in proximity to a target.

The armature is illustrated in more detail in in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The armature may be configured to be moveable along and launchable for example from opposing parallel rails of an electromagnetic apparatus as discussed below or from another apparatus such as a cannon or gun.

The armature may be formed from a single piece of a conductive material or alternatively comprise several pieces coupled together by welding or the like. The armature may comprise a conductive material such as aluminum Al or the like to complete an electrical circuit between the opposing rails of an electromagnetic apparatus as discussed below. The armature may include a platform having the first surface which may be coupled to the first end of the boom prior to separation of the armature from the boom and the body after launch of the projectile . The platform may have a cross sectional area that is greater than the maximum cross sectional area of the body as illustrated in . For example the platform may be larger in cross section such that the body does not touch either of the parallel rails of the electromagnetic apparatus as further illustrated in . For example the body may be deliberately non contacting with the rails to at least limit high currents from travelling through the body . For example such high currents may melt the body under some conditions.

As illustrated in the armature includes a first plate and a second plate disposed on an opposing end of the platform from the first plate . The first and second plates may extend from an opposing second surface of the platform in the same direction as which the first end of the boom extends from the body . As shown in the first plate may be configured to contact the upper surfaces of each of the opposing parallel rails of the electromagnetic apparatus and wherein the second plate is configured to contact the lower surfaces of the each of the opposing parallel rails . The first and second plates may be any suitable shape such that the plates contact the rails as discussed above. For example as illustrated in each plate may have an opening disposed through each plate . The opening may have any suitable shape for example as illustrated the opening may be disposed in a central region of the plate and extend through a back end of the plate wherein the back end of the plate opposes a front end of the plate which may be coupled to the platform .

As illustrated in A C the armature may include a holder extending from the first surface of the platform in a second direction opposing the direction in which the boom extends from the body . The holder may be adapted to receive the first end of the boom and adapted to fit into the opening within the body as illustrated in . Further as illustrated in the holder may further include a plurality of slots for example such that each slot is adapted to hold a fin .

An exemplary electromagnetic apparatus is illustrated in in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. For example as illustrated in the projectile may be configured for launch. The electromagnetic apparatus may include a power source having opposing terminals coupled to the rails . In operation the power source may be used to charge a bank of capacitors not shown . After the capacitors are fully charged the projectile e.g. the armature may be brought into contact with the rails as discussed above. The contact of the armature with each of the rails may complete an electrical circuit illustrated by dotted lines in . The completed electrically circuit allows current to flow between the rails and therefore creates a magnetic field along the rails . Once the projectile is in contact with the rails the circuit may be completed by throwing a switching device not shown which discharges the capacitors through the rails providing an electromotive force propelling the projectile forward along the rails . The combination of the magnetic field the current and the lengths of the rails may determine the magnitude of the electromotive force that is provided. The electromotive force may be controlled by altering the magnitude of the current and or the length of the rails .

In accordance with some applications of the invention fins and or a flare cone may be further used for increasing the drag of the projectile. In this way a projectile may also be configured as a drag device such that when the boom is extended from the body and the fins or the flare cone are exposed to fluid flow relative to the projectile the projectile itself is slowed down and or another object connected to the projectile is slowed down. For example one or more projectiles may be deployed as an emergency drag device to slow down high speed vehicles such as watercrafts or racing boats. In such applications the projectiles may be attached to the vehicle for instance via a tether and may be deployed behind the vehicle in water when it is desired to slow or stop the vehicle. Fluid flowing past the fins or flare cone of the projectile thus creates sufficient drag to sufficiently slow the vehicle.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

