---

title: Factor IXa inhibitors
abstract: 

as described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more said compounds, and methods for using said compounds for treating or preventing a thromboses, embolisms, hypercoagulability or fibrotic changes.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08980916&OS=08980916&RS=08980916
owner: Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
number: 08980916
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121024
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US12 061625 filed Oct. 24 2012 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 551 977 filed Oct. 27 2011.

Factor IXa is a plasma serine protease involved in the regulation of blood coagulation. While blood coagulation is a necessary and important part of the regulation of an organism s homeostasis abnormal blood coagulation can also have deleterious effects. For instance thrombosis is the formation or presence of a blood clot inside a blood vessel or cavity of the heart. Such a blood clot can lodge in a blood vessel blocking circulation and inducing a heart attack or stroke. Thromboembolic disorders are the largest cause of mortality and disability in the industrialized world.

Blood clotting is a process of control of the blood stream essential for the survival of mammals. The process of clotting and the subsequent dissolution of the clot after wound healing has taken place commences after vascular damage and can be divided into four phases. The first phase vasoconstriction or vasocontraction can cause a decrease in blood loss in the damaged area. In the next phase platelet activation by thrombin platelets attach to the site of the vessel wall damage and form a platelet aggregate. In the third phase formation of clotting complexes leads to massive formation of thrombin which converts soluble fibrinogen to fibrin by cleavage of two small peptides. In the fourth phase after wound healing the thrombus is dissolved by the action of the key enzyme of the endogenous fibrinolysis system plasmin.

Two alternative pathways can lead to the formation of a fibrin clot the intrinsic and the extrinsic pathway. These pathways are initiated by different mechanisms but in the later phase they converge to give a common final path of the clotting cascade. In this final path of clotting clotting factor X is activated. The activated factor X is responsible for the formation of thrombin from the inactive precursor prothrombin circulating in the blood. The formation of a thrombus on the bottom of a vessel wall abnormality without a wound is the result of the intrinsic pathway. Fibrin clot formation as a response to tissue damage or an injury is the result of the extrinsic pathway. Both pathways comprise a relatively large number of proteins which are known as clotting factors. The intrinsic pathway requires the clotting factors V VIII IX X XI and XII and also prekallikrein high molecular weight kininogen calcium ions and phospholipids from platelets. Clotting factor IX can be activated by means of the intrinsic pathway and the extrinsic pathway. The activation of factor IXa is thus a central point of intersection between the two pathways of activation of clotting. Factor IXa has an important role in blood clotting. Defects in factor IXa lead to hemophilia B while increased concentrations of factor IXa in the blood lead to a significantly increased risk of thrombosis formation Weltermann A et al. J Thromb Haemost. 2003 1 28 32 . The regulation of factor IXa activity can reduce thrombus formation in animal models Feuerstein G Z et al. Thromb Haemost. 1999 82 1443 1445 . Vijaykumar et al. 2006 16 10 2796 2799 discloses hydroxy pyrazole based factor IXa inhibitors.

In its many embodiments the present invention provides a novel class of compounds pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more said compounds and methods for using said compounds for treating or preventing thrombus formation embolisms hypercoagulability or fibrotic changes.

The compounds of Formula I according to the invention are suitable for prophylactic and for therapeutic administration to humans who suffer from diseases which accompany thromboses embolisms hypercoagulability or fibrotic changes. They can be employed for secondary prevention and are suitable both for acute and for long term therapy.

In another embodiment Ris a 9 or 10 membered unsaturated bicyclic heteroaryl ring with 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatom ring atoms selected from the group consisting of N O or S wherein said heteroaryl ring is unsubstituted or independently mono di or tri substituted with R.

In another embodiment wherein Ris aryl wherein said phenyl ring is unsubstituted or independently mono di or tri substituted with R.

In a preferred group of this embodiment Ris phenyl wherein said phenyl ring is unsubstituted or independently mono di or tri substituted with R.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include non toxic salts such as those derived from inorganic acids e.g. hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric nitric and the like or the quaternary ammonium salts which are formed e.g. from inorganic or organic acids or bases. Examples of acid addition salts include acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate citrate camphorate camphorsulfonate carbonate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate fumarate glucoheptanoate gluconate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hippurate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate lactate lactobionate laurylsulfate malate maleate mesylate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate nitrate oleate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate propionate stearate succinate sulfate tartrate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate. Additional specific anionic salts include ascorbate gluceptate glutamate glucoronate besylate caprylate isetionate gentisate malonate napasylate edfisylate pamoate xinafoate and napadisylate. Base salts include ammonium salts alkali metal salts such as sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium and magnesium salts salts with organic bases such as dicyclohexylamine salts N methyl D glucamine and salts with amino acids such as arginine lysine and so forth. Also the basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with such agents as lower alkyl halides such as methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chloride bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides such as decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides aralkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others. Additional specific cationic salts include tromethamine benzathine benethamine diethylammonium epolamine hydrabamine.

These salts can be obtained by known methods for example by mixing a compound of the present invention with an equivalent amount and a solution containing a desired acid base or the like and then collecting the desired salt by filtering the salt or distilling off the solvent. The compounds of the present invention and salts thereof may form solvates with a solvent such as water ethanol or glycerol. The compounds of the present invention may form an acid addition salt and a salt with a base at the same time according to the type of substituent of the side chain.

When the compounds of the invention contain one chiral center the term stereoisomer includes both enantiomers and mixtures of enantiomers such as the specific 50 50 mixture referred to as the racemic mixture. The compounds of the present invention may have multiple chiral centers providing for multiple stereoisomers. This invention includes all of the stereoisomers and mixtures thereof. Whenever the stereoisomeric composition is unspecified all possible stereoisomers are included. Where used the structure marking indicates the location of a carbon atom that is a chiral center. When bonds to a chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines it is understood that both R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are represented.

Some of the compounds described herein may exist as tautomers. The individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are encompassed with the described compounds.

In the compounds of the invention the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the specifically and generically described compounds. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium 1H and deuterium 2H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the general process schemes and examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

Except where noted herein alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification e.g. methyl may be represented by conventional abbreviations including Me or CHor a symbol that is an extended bond as the terminal group e.g. ethyl may be represented by Et or CHCH propyl may be represented by Pr or CHCHCH butyl may be represented by Bu or CHCHCHCH etc. Calkyl or C Calkyl for example means linear or branched chain alkyl groups including all isomers having the specified number of carbon atoms. Calkyl includes n iso sec and t butyl n and isopropyl ethyl and methyl. If no number is specified 1 4 carbon atoms are intended for linear or branched alkyl groups.

Except where noted herein alkyl groups may be unsubstituted or substituted with 1 to 3 substituents on any one or more carbon atoms with halogen C Calkyl CF NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl NO oxo CN N OH O C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkyl S O HS O C Calkyl S O C Calkyl HS O C Calkyl C Calkyl C O NH HN C NH O C Calkyl CF HC O C Calkyl C O HOC O C Calkyl OC O HO C Calkyl C Calkyl O C Calkyl C Calkyl C O C Calkyl HC O C Calkyl C Calkyl C O HOC O NH C Calkyl OC O NH aryl aralkyl heterocycle heterocyclylalkyl halo aryl halo aralkyl halo heterocycle halo heterocyclylalkyl cyano aryl cyano aralkyl cyano heterocycle and cyano heterocyclylalkyl where such substitution results in formation of a stable compound.

Except where noted herein the term aryl alone or in combination relates to a phenyl naphthyl or indanyl group preferably a phenyl group. The abbreviation Ph represents phenyl.

Except where noted herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic unsaturated ring having a specified number of atom members e.g. 4 5 6 or 7 membered including a specified number of heteroatoms e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms independently selected from N O or S or a bicyclic unsaturated ring having a specified number of atom members e.g. 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 membered including a specified number of heteroatoms e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 heteroatoms independently selected from N S or O e.g. 5 membered rings containing one nitrogen pyrrole one oxygen furan or one sulfur thiophene atom 5 membered rings containing one nitrogen and one sulfur thiazole atom 5 membered rings containing one nitrogen and one oxygen oxazole or isoxazole atom 5 membered rings containing two nitrogen imidazole or pyrazole atoms five membered aromatic rings containing three nitrogen atoms five membered aromatic rings containing one oxygen one nitrogen or one sulfur atom five membered aromatic rings containing two heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur 6 membered rings containing one nitrogen pyridine or one oxygen pyran atom 6 membered rings containing two nitrogen pyrazine pyrimidine or pyridazine atoms 6 membered rings containing three nitrogen triazine atoms a tetrazolyl ring a thiazinyl ring or coumarinyl. Examples of such ring systems are furanyl thienyl pyrrolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl indolyl imidazolyl triazinyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl and isoxazolyl.

The terms heterocycle and heterocyclic refer to a saturated monocyclic 5 to 8 membered ring having 1 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or a 7 to 12 membered saturated or partially saturated bicyclic ring system having 1 6 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. Representative examples include piperidinyl piperazinyl azepanyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolidinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl and tetrahydrofuryl or tetrahydrofuranyl .

Except where noted herein aryl groups may be unsubstituted or substituted on any one or more carbon atoms with halogen C Calkyl CF NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl NO oxo CN N OH O C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl HS O C Calkyl S O C Calkyl S O C Calkyl HS O C Calkyl C Calkyl S O C Calkyl C O NH HC O NH HN C NH O C Calkyl CF C Calkyl C O HC O C Calkyl OC O HOC O C Calkyl O C Calkyl HO C Calkyl C Calkyl C O C Calkyl C Calkyl C O HC O C Calkyl C Calkyl OC O NH HOC O NH aryl aralkyl heterocycle heterocyclylalkyl halo aryl halo aralkyl halo heterocycle halo heterocyclylalkyl cyano aryl cyano aralkyl cyano heterocycle and cyano heterocyclylalkyl where such substitution results in formation of a stable compound.

Except where noted herein the term carbocycle and variations thereof such as carbocyclic or carbocyclyl as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to a Cto Cmonocyclic saturated or unsaturated ring. The carbocycle may be attached to the rest of the molecule at any carbon atom which results in a stable compound. Saturated carbocyclic rings are also referred to as cycloalkyl rings e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl etc.

Except where noted herein heteroaryl and heterocyclic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted on any one or more carbon atoms with halogen C Calkyl CF NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl NO oxo CN N OH O C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkyl S O HS O C Calkyl S O C Calkyl HS O C Calkyl C Calkyl S O C Calkyl C O NH HC O NH HN C NH O C Calkyl CF HC O C Calkyl C O C Calkyl OC O HOC O C Calkyl O C Calkyl HO C Calkyl C Calkyl O C Calkyl C O C Calkyl HC O C Calkyl C Calkyl C O C Calkyl OC O NH HOC O NH silyl groups including trimethylsilyl tetramethylsilyl or supersilyl groups such as tri trimethylsilyl silyl or a silicon group connected to tert butyl groups aryl aralkyl heterocycle heterocyclylalkyl halo aryl halo aralkyl halo heterocycle halo heterocyclylalkyl cyano aryl cyano aralkyl cyano heterocycle or cyano heterocyclylalkyl or independently or additionally substituted with 1 substituent on any one or more nitrogen atoms with C Calkyl oxo C Ccycloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl aryl C O Calkyl C O NHC Calkyl C O NH C CalkylC O NH C CalkylOC O NH or independently or additionally substituted with 1 substituent on any one or more sulfur atoms with C Calkyl oxo C Ccycloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl aryl where such substitution results in formation of a stable compound.

The invention also includes derivatives of the compound of Formula I acting as prodrugs and solvates. Prodrugs following administration to the patient are converted in the body by normal metabolic or chemical processes such as through hydrolysis in the blood to the compound of Formula 1. Such prodrugs include those that demonstrate enhanced bioavailability tissue specificity and or cellular delivery to improve drug absorption of the compound of Formula I. The effect of such prodrugs may result from modification of physicochemical properties such as lipophilicity molecular weight charge and other physicochemical properties that determine the permeation properties of the drug.

The preparation of pharmacologically acceptable salts from compounds of the Formula I capable of salt formation including their stereoisomeric forms is carried out in a manner known per se. With basic reagents such as hydroxides carbonates hydrogencarbonates alkoxides and ammonia or organic bases for example trimethyl or triethylamine ethanolamine diethanolamine or triethanolamine trometamol or alternatively basic amino acids for example lysine ornithine or arginine the compounds of the Formula I form stable alkali metal alkaline earth metal or optionally substituted ammonium salts. If the compounds of the Formula I have basic groups stable acid addition salts can also be prepared using strong acids. For this inorganic and organic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric hemisulfuric phosphoric methanesulfonic benzenesulfonic p toluenesulfonic 4 bromobenzenesulfonic cyclohexylamidosulfonic trifluoromethylsulfonic 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acetic oxalic tartaric succinic glycerolphosphoric lactic malic adipic citric fumaric maleic gluconic glucuronic palmitic or trifluoroacetic acid are suitable.

The invention also relates to medicaments which contain an efficacious amount of at least one compound of the Formula I and or of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound of the Formula I and or an optionally stereoisomeric form of the compound of the Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the stereoisomeric form of the compound of Formula I together with a pharmaceutically suitable and pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle additive and or other active substances and auxiliaries.

On account of their pharmacological properties the compounds according to the invention are suitable for example for the prophylaxis secondary prevention and therapy of all those diseases which are treatable by inhibition of blood clotting factor IXa. Thus the compounds according to the invention are suitable as inhibitors both for prophylactic and for therapeutic administration to humans. They are suitable both for acute treatment and for long term therapy. The compounds of the Formula I can be employed in patients who are suffering from disorders of well being or diseases which accompany thromboses embolisms hypercoagulability or fibrotic changes.

These include myocardial infarct angina pectoris and all other forms of acute coronary syndrome stroke peripheral vascular diseases deep vein thrombosis pulmonary embolism embolic or thrombotic events caused by cardiac arrhythmias cardiovascular events such as restenosis after revascularization angioplasty and similar interventions such as stent implantations and bypass operations. Furthermore the compounds of the Formula I can be employed in all interventions which lead to contact of the blood with foreign surfaces as in dialysis patients and patients with indwelling catheters. Compounds of the Formula I can also be employed in order to reduce the risk of thrombosis after surgical interventions such as in knee and hip joint operations.

Compounds of the Formula I are suitable for the treatment of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation sepsis and other intravascular events which accompany inflammation. Furthermore compounds of the Formula I are suitable for the prophylaxis and treatment of patients with atherosclerosis diabetes and the metabolic syndrome and their sequelae. Disorders of the hemostatic system for example fibrin deposits have been implicated in mechanisms which lead to tumor growth and tumor metastasis and in the inflammatory and degenerative joint diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and arthrosis. Compounds of the Formula I are suitable for the retardation or prevention of such processes.

Further indications for the use of the compounds of the Formula I are fibrotic changes of the lungs such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease adult respiratory distress syndrome ARDS and of the eye such as fibrin deposits after eye operations. Compounds of the Formula I are also suitable for the prevention and or treatment of scar formation.

The medicaments according to the invention can be administered by oral inhalative rectal or transdermal administration or by subcutaneous intraarticular intraperitoneal or intravenous injection. Oral administration is preferred. Coating of stents with compounds of the Formula I and other surfaces which come into contact with blood in the body is possible.

The invention also relates to a process for the production of a medicament which comprises bringing at least one compound of the Formula I into a suitable administration form using a pharmaceutically suitable and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally further suitable active substances additives or auxiliaries.

Suitable solid or galenical preparation forms are for example granules powders coated tablets tablets micro capsules suppositories syrups juices suspensions emulsions drops or injectable solutions and preparations having prolonged release of active substance in whose preparation customary excipients such as vehicles disintegrants binders coating agents swelling agents glidants or lubricants flavorings sweeteners and solubilizers are used. Frequently used auxiliaries which may be mentioned are magnesium carbonate titanium dioxide lactose mannitol and other sugars talc lactose gelatin starch cellulose and its derivatives animal and plant oils such as cod liver oil sunflower peanut or sesame oil polyethylene glycol and solvents such as for example sterile water and mono or polyhydric alcohols such as glycerol.

Preferably the pharmaceutical preparations are prepared and administered in dose units where each unit contains as active constituent a certain dose of the compound of the Formula I according to the invention. In the case of solid dose units such as tablets capsules coated tablets or suppositories this dose can be approximately 1000 mg but preferably approximately 50 to 300 mg and in the case of injection solutions in ampoule form approximately 300 mg but preferably approximately 10 to 100 mg.

For the treatment of an adult patient weighing approximately 70 kg depending on the efficacy of the compound according to Formula I daily doses of approximately 2 mg to 1000 mg of active substance preferably approximately 50 mg to 500 mg are indicated. Under certain circumstances however higher or lower daily doses may also be appropriate. The daily dose can be administered both by single administration in the form of an individual dose unit or else of a number of smaller dose units and by multiple administration of subdivided doses at certain intervals.

Compounds of the Formula I can be administered both as a monotherapy and in combination with antithrombotics anticoagulants and platelet aggregation inhibitors thrombolytics plasminogen activators other profibrinolytically active substances hypotensives blood sugar regulators lipid lowering agents and antiarrhythmics.

The effectiveness of compounds of the present invention to inhibit the coagulation factors XIa VIIa IXa Xa plasma kallikrein or thrombin can be determined using a relevant purified serine protease respectively and an appropriate synthetic substrate.

Abbreviations DMSO dimethylsulfoxide EtN triethylamine TFA trifluoroacetic acid Ac acetic acid PMB p methoxybenzyl Pht phthaloyl .

1 1 200 mg 1.63 mmol 1 2 628 mg 1.95 mmol N N dimethylethane 1 2 diamine 57.3 mg 0.650 mmol copper iodide 61.9 mg 0.325 mmol and potassium phosphate 689 mg 3.24 mmol were combined in a round bottom flask with 1 4 dioxane 5.0 mL under a nitrogen atmosphere and heated to 110 C. for 48 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and dilute with water. The mixture was extracted 3 times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash column chromatography on silica gel 0 50 EtOAc in CHCl gave 104 mg 20 of 1 3 as an off white solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.33 1H s 8.12 1H dd J 7.2 2.4 Hz 7.63 1H dd J 7.2 2.4 Hz 7.23 7.19 1H m 7.08 1H dd J 7.2 2.7 Hz 6.91 1H m 6.41 1H t J 7.2 Hz 4.51 1H m 4.03 3.96 2H m 3.60 3.53 2H m 2.09 2.00 2H m 1.91 1.80 2H m ESI MS m z 318 CHFNO H .

Acetic anhydride 2.63 mL 27.9 mmol was added to formic acid 1.04 mL 27.9 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was heated to 60 C. for 30 minutes. After that 2 6 aminobenzo d isoxazol 3 yl isoindoline 1 3 dione 1 4 390 mg 1.39 mmol dissolved in CHCl 10 mL was added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was triturated with CHCl hexane 1 1 to give 300 mg 70 of 1 5 as a pale yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d rotamer ratio s cis s trans 3 1 10.75 0.75H br s 10.58 0.25H br d J 11.3 Hz 9.04 0.25H br d J 11.3 Hz 8.43 0.75H br s 8.29 0.75H br s 8.07 2H m 7.99 2H m 7.81 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.80 0.25H br s 7.43 0.75H d J 8.4 Hz 7.28 0.25H br d J 8.4 Hz ESI MS m z 308 CHNO H .

1 5 150 mg 0.480 mmol was suspended in CHCl 10 mL and cooled to 0 C. To the mixture were added triphosgene 87.0 mg 0.290 mmol followed by EtN 0.140 mL 0.980 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with CHCl washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO brine and dried over NaSO. The residue was triturated with hexane to give 115 mg 82 of 1 6 as a pale yellow solid H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.34 1H br s 8.09 2H m 8.04 1H dd J 8.4 0.8 Hz 8.00 2H m 7.68 1H dd J 8.4 1.6 Hz ESI MS m z 290 CHNO .

To a solution of 1 3 68.0 mg 0.214 mmol in methylene chloride 0.40 mL were added 1 6 62.0 mg 0.214 mmol followed by acetic acid 0.012 mL 0.214 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. for 24 h. After the reaction was completed solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 50 acetone in hexane to give 68.0 mg 48 of 1 7 as an off white solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.01 1H s 8.24 1H br s 8.03 2H m 7.88 1H s 7.86 2H m 7.51 1H d J 8.7 Hz 7.41 1H dd J 6.9 1.8 Hz 7.21 2H m 7.02 1H dd J 7.2 2.4 Hz 6.94 6.89 1H m 6.48 1H t J 7.2 Hz 6.36 1H s 4.51 1H m 4.03 3.96 2H m 3.60 3.53 2H m 2.33 3H s 2.09 2.00 2H m 1.91 1.80 2H m ESI MS m z 667 CHFNO H .

A mixture of 1 5 45.0 mg 0.0675 mmol and 7 M NHin methanol 5.0 mL 35.0 mmol was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 50 acetone in hexane followed by trituration with CHCl EtO to provide 17.0 mg 52 of Example 1 as a yellow solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.54 1H s 7.93 1H br s 7.87 1H br d J 7.2 Hz 7.40 7.37 2H m 7.29 7.22 1H m 7.20 1H dd J 7.7 1.6 Hz 7.03 1H dd J 7.2 2.4 Hz 6.95 6.91 1H m 6.50 1H t J 6.8 Hz 5.42 1H d J 4.0 Hz 4.75 1H d J 4.0 Hz 4.51 1H m 4.31 2H br s 4.03 3.98 2H m 3.60 3.54 2H m 2.10 2.03 2H m 1.91 1.80 2H m ESI MS m z 495 CHFNO H .

2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine 3 carbaldehyde 1 1 200 mg 1.63 mmol 1 iodo 4 trifluoromethoxy benzene 2 1 562 mg 1.95 mmol 8 hydroxyquinoline 47.2 mg 0.324 mmol copper iodide 61.9 mg 0.324 mmol and potassium carbonate 303 mg 2.19 mmol were combined in a round bottom flask with DMSO 3.5 mL under a nitrogen atmosphere and heated to 130 C. for 21 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into a mixture of 10 aq. ammonium hydroxide and ethyl acetate. The resultant mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite and washed with ethyl acetate three times. The layers were separated with the aqueous portion being back extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash column chromatography on silica gel 0 50 EtOAc in hexane gave 92.0 mg 20 of 2 2 as an off white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.34 1H d J 0.8 Hz 8.14 1H dd J 6.9 2.3 Hz 7.65 1H dd J 6.9 2.3 Hz 7.45 2H m 7.38 2H m 6.44 1H dt J 0.8 6.9 Hz ESI MS m z 284 CHFNO H .

To a solution of 1 6 325 mg 1.12 mmol in methylene chloride 1.9 mL were added compound 2 2 212 mg 0.749 mmol followed by acetic acid 0.06 mL 1.12 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. for 48 h. Then the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 50 acetone in hexane to give 105 mg 22 of 2 3 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.94 1H s 8.25 1H d J 1.5 Hz 8.03 2H m 7.85 7.89 3H m 7.54 1H d J 8.5 Hz 7.38 7.46 5H m 7.22 1H dd J 8.5 1.5 Hz 6.53 1H t J 7.2 Hz 6.36 1H s 2.33 3H s ESI MS m z 633 CHFNO H .

A mixture of 2 3 105 mg 0.169 mmol and 7 M NHin methanol 5.0 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1.75 h. The volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 50 acetone in hexane followed by trituration with CHCl EtO to provide 48.0 mg 51 of Example 2 as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.26 1H s 7.94 1H d J 1.6 Hz 7.66 7.72 3H m 7.57 2H m 7.51 2H m 7.39 1H dd J 8.4 1.6 Hz 6.46 1H t J 6.8 Hz 6.29 2H br s 6.26 1H d J 6.2 Hz 5.23 1H d J 6.2 Hz ESI MS m z 461 CHFNO H .

30 mL microwave reaction vessel was flushed with nitrogen gas and charged with 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine 3 carbaldehyde 1 1 100 mg 0.812 mmol 4 3 iodophenyl morpholin 3 one 3 1 296 mg 0.974 mmol 8 hydroxyquinoline 48.0 mg 0.324 mmol copper iodide 31.0 mg 0.162 mmol potassium carbonate 152 mg 1.09 mmol and DMSO 1.7 mL under a nitrogen atmosphere. The resulting mixture was irradiated in a microwave apparatus Biotage at 150 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into a mixture of 10 aq. ammonium hydroxide and ethyl acetate. The resultant mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite and washed with ethyl acetate three times. The layers were separated with the aqueous portion being back extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel column chromatography 0 100 EtOAc in hexane gave 61.0 mg 24 of 3 2 as a light brown solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.33 1H d J 0.4 Hz 8.14 1H dd J 6.8 2.3 Hz 7.27 1H dd J 6.8 2.3 Hz 7.60 1H t J 8.1 Hz 7.53 1H t J 2.1 Hz 7.47 1H ddd J 8.1 2.1 1.2 Hz 7.32 1H ddd J 8.1 2.1 1.2 Hz 6.43 1H dt J 6.8 0.4 Hz 4.34 2H br s 4.03 4.06 2H m 3.84 3.86 2H m ESI MS m z 299 CHNO H .

 2 3 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl benzo d isoxazol 6 ylamino 2 oxo 1 2 oxo 1 3 3 oxomorpholino phenyl 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 yl ethyl acetate 3 3 was synthesized using a procedure similar to the synthesis of compound 2 3 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.03 1H s 8.18 1H d J 1.5 Hz 8.03 2H m 7.85 7.88 3H m 7.61 1H t J 8.1 Hz 7.45 7.54 4H m 7.23 7.33 2H m 6.53 1H t J 7.2 Hz 6.37 1H s 4.35 2H s 4.04 4.09 2H m 3.82 3.89 2H m 2.33 3H s ESI MS m z 648 CHNO H .

Example 3 was synthesized using a procedure similar to the synthesis of Example 2. Additionally purification by silica gel chromatography 0 5 MeOH in CHCl gave Example 3 as a pale green solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.55 1H s 7.85 7.9 2H m 7.62 1H t J 8.0 Hz 7.44 7.53 3H m 7.40 1H br d J 8.4 Hz 7.32 1H m 7.28 1H dd J 8.4 1.6 Hz 6.52 1H t J 6.8 Hz 5.44 1H d J 5.0 Hz 4.75 1H d J 5.0 Hz 4.35 2H s 4.29 2H br s 4.03 4.09 2H m 3.81 3.93 2H m ESI MS m z 476 CHNO H .

In a microwave vial were placed 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine 3 carbaldehyde 1 1 200 mg 1.62 mmol 4 trifluoromethoxyphenylboronic acid 4 1 660 mg 3.25 mmol and anhydrous Cu OAc 295 mg 1.62 mmol . To the mixture was added DMSO 3.20 mL followed by EtN 0.45 mL 3.25 mmol . The mixture was irradiated in microwave apparatus Biotage at 100 C. for 15 minutes and cooled to room temperature. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 20 EtOAc in hexane to give 105 mg 25 of 2 2 as a pale yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.34 1H s 8.13 1H dd J 6.9 2.1 Hz 7.63 1H dd J 6.9 2.1 Hz 7.47 7.36 4H m 6.44 1H t J 6.9 Hz ESI MS m z 284 CHFNO H .

To a stirred mixture of 6 amino 4 methylnicotinonitrile 4 2 which was prepared by using a similar method described in WO199618616 669 mg 5.02 mmol and N N dimethylformamide 15.0 mL at 0 C. under an atmosphere of nitrogen gas was added sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 605 mg 15.1 mmol . To the mixture was added 4 methoxybenzyl chloride 1.70 mL 12.5 mmol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours under an atmosphere of nitrogen gas. The reaction mixture was quenched with methanol 5.0 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. To the resulting residue was added water 50 mL and the resulting mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 60 mL 30 mL 2 . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 30 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 30 g step gradient eluting with 10 1 5 1 and 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate to give 1.78 g 95 of 4 3 as a pale brown solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.39 1H s 7.11 4H m 6.85 4H m 6.32 1H s 4.71 4H br s 3.79 6H s 2.33 3H s ESI MS m z 374 CHNO H .

A mixture of 4 3 7.20 g 19.3 mmol tert butoxy bis dimethylamino methane 16.0 mL 77.5 mmol and N N dimethylformamide 5.40 mL was stirred at 70 C. for 16 hours under an atmosphere of nitrogen gas. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give 9.40 g of 4 4 as a brown oil. The crude product was used for next step without further purification.

A mixture of 4 6 3.94 g 7.43 mmol trifluoroacetic acid 30.0 mL 392 mmol and dichloromethane 30.0 mL was stirred at 40 C. for 19 hours under an atmosphere of nitrogen gas and concentrated under reduced pressure. To the resulting residue was added saturated aqueous NaHCO 300 mL and hexane dichloromethane 5 1 150 mL at ambient temperature. The resulting mixture was stirred vigorously at ambient temperature for 30 minutes. The precipitated solid was filtered washed with water 60 mL and hexane dichloromethane 5 1 60 mL and dried under high vacuum to give 2.08 g 96 of 4 7 as a pale yellow solid H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.04 1H br s 8.28 1H d J 6.0 Hz 8.05 2H m 7.97 2H m 7.55 1H br d J 6.0 Hz 6.78 2H br s 6.63 1H br s ESI MS m z 291 CHNO H .

Acetic anhydride 2.01 mL 20.6 mmol was added to formic acid 0.75 mL 20.6 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was heated to 60 C. for 30 minutes. After that 2 6 amino 2 7 naphthyridin 1 yl isoindoline 1 3 dione 4 7 300 mg 1.03 mmol dissolved in CHCl 10 mL was added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was triturated with CHCl hexane 1 1 to give 240 mg 73 of 4 8 as a pale yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl H NMR rotamer ratio s cis s trans 4 1 9.46 0.2H br d J 10.3 Hz 9.01 0.8H br s 8.75 0.2H br d J 10.3 Hz 8.68 1H br d J 5.4 Hz 8.60 1H br s 8.56 1H br s 8.48 0.8H br s 8.03 2H m 7.86 2H m 7.77 0.8H br d J 5.4 Hz 7.67 0.2H br d J 5.4 Hz ESI MS m z 319 CHNO H .

4 8 90.0 mg 0.280 mmol was suspended in CHCl 10 mL and cooled to 0 C. To the mixture were added triphosgene 252 mg 0.85 mmol followed by EtN 0.240 mL 1.69 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with CHCl washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO brine and dried over NaSO. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 5 EtOAc in CHCl to give 73.3 mg 41 of 4 9 as a pale white solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.18 1H br s 8.86 1H d J 5.7 Hz 8.06 2H m 7.90 2H m 7.85 1H br s 7.84 1H d J 5.7 Hz ESI MS m z 301 CHNO H .

4 9 12.0 mg 0.0400 mmol was dissolved in CHCl 0.20 mL . To the mixture were added 2 2 23.0 mg 0.0812 mmol and CHCOH 0.02 mL 0.3491 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 15 EtOAc in CHCl to give 3.9 mg 15 of 4 10 as a pale white solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.10 1H s 8.97 1H s 8.62 1H d J 5.8 Hz 8.55 1H s 8.03 2H m 7.87 7.83 3H m 7.68 1H d J 5.8 Hz 7.47 7.40 5H m 6.45 1H t J 6.9 Hz 6.41 1H s 2.32 3H s ESI MS m z 644 CHFNO H .

4 10 7.2 mg 0.011 mmol was suspended in 7 M NHin methanol 1.0 mL 7.0 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 40 acetone in hexane to give 2.6 mg 50 of Example 4 as a pale white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 9.21 1H s 8.28 1H s 7.83 1H d J 6.2 Hz 7.82 7.81 1H m 7.65 1H dd J 6.8 2.0 Hz 7.57 2H m 7.44 2H m 6.86 1H d J 6.2 Hz 6.55 1H t J 7.2 Hz 5.41 1H s ESI MS m z 472 CHFNO H .

1 4 tert butylphenyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine 3 carbaldehyde 5 2 was synthesized using a procedure similar to the synthesis of compound 3 2 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.35 1H d J 0.6 Hz 8.12 1H dd J 6.9 2.3 Hz 7.67 1H dd J 6.9 2.3 Hz 7.54 2H m 7.32 2H m 6.39 1H dt J 0.6 6.9 Hz 1.36 9H s ESI MS m z 256 CHNO H .

 1 1 4 tert butylphenyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 yl 2 3 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl benzo d isoxazol 6 ylamino 2 oxoethyl acetate 5 3 was synthesized using a procedure similar to the synthesis of compound 2 3 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.17 1H s 8.24 1H d J 2.0 Hz 8.03 2H m 7.83 7.90 3H m 7.51 7.59 3H m 7.45 1H dd J 6.8 2.0 Hz 7.30 2H m 7.22 7.27 2H m 6.49 1H t J 6.8 Hz 2.33 3H s 1.37 9H s ESI MS m z 605 CHNO H .

 N 3 aminobenzo d isoxazol 6 yl 2 1 4 tert butylphenyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 yl 2 hydroxyacetamide Example 5 was synthesized using a procedure similar to the synthesis of Example 3 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.26 1H s 7.94 1H d J 1.6 Hz 7.63 7.71 3H m 7.52 2H m 7.38 1H dd J 8.8 1.6 Hz 7.32 2H m 6.41 1H t J 7.2 Hz 6.29 2H br s 6.24 1H br d J 4.0 Hz 5.23 1H br d J 4.0 Hz 1.31 9H s ESI MS m z 433 CHNO H .

 N 1 aminoisoquinolin 6 yl 2 1 4 tert butylphenyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 yl 2 hydroxyacetamide Example 6 was synthesized using a procedure similar to Example 5 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.21 1H s 8.11 1H d J 9.2 Hz 8.09 1H d J 2.2 Hz 7.71 1H d J 6.0 Hz 7.66 2H d J 6.8 Hz 7.61 1H dd J 9.2 2.2 Hz 7.52 2H m 7.32 2H m 6.78 1H d J 6.0 Hz 6.72 2H br s 6.42 1H t J 6.8 Hz 6.23 1H d J 5.8 Hz 5.25 1H d J 5.8 Hz 1.30 9H s ESI MS m z 442 CHNO H .

Inhibitory activity against Factor IXa was tested using the substrate SPECTROFLUOR FIXa American Diagnostica Inc. 500 West Avenue Stamford Conn. 06902 USA Pr. No. 299F and human Factor IXa American Diagnostica Inc. Pr. No. 449b . Test substances dissolved in buffer A 50 mM tris hydroxymethyl methylamine Tris 100 mM NaCl 5 mM CaCl 15 v v ethylene glycol pH 8.0 were mixed with Factor IXa 2.0 g ml final concentration . The enzyme reaction was started by addition of SPECTROFLUOR FIXa 100 M final concentration . After incubation for 60 minutes at room temperature the reaction was stopped by the addition of 20 v v acetic acid solution and then fluorescence value measured Excitation Wavelength 355 nm Emission Wavelength 460 nm in a microtiter plate reader ARVO 1420 Multilabel Counter PerkinElmer .

ICwas calculated from a dilution series of the test substance with the aid of the software Symix Assay Explorer Symyx Technologies Inc. . Table 3 shows the results.

Inhibitory activity against Factor Xa is tested using the substrate SPECTROFLUOR FXa American Diagnostica Inc. 500 West Avenue Stamford Conn. 06902 USA Pr. No. 222F and human factor Xa American Diagnostica Inc. Pr. No. 526 . Test substances dissolved in buffer B 20 mM Tris 200 mM NaCl 2.5 mM CaCl pH 8.0 are mixed with factor Xa 44 ng ml final concentration . The enzyme reaction is started by addition of SPECTROFLUOR FXa 100 M final concentration . After incubation for 60 minutes at room temperature the reaction is stopped by the addition of 20 v v acetic acid solution and then fluorescence value measured Excitation Wavelength 355 nm Emission Wavelength 460 nm in a microtiter plate reader ARVO 1420 Multilabel Counter PerkinElmer .

Selectivity for Factor IXa activity over Factor Xa activity can be determined by the following calculation IC50 Factor Xa IC50 Factor IXa . Similar calculations can be made for selectivity of compounds for Factor IXa compared to other coagulation factors. These as well as other ways of minimizing contact between the components of combination products of the present invention whether administered in a single dosage form or administered in separate forms but at the same time by the same manner will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art once armed with the present disclosure.

The present invention is not limited in scope by the specific embodiments disclosed in the examples which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the invention and any embodiments that are functionally equivalent are within the scope of this invention. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the relevant art and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claim.

Because of their inhibitory action these compounds are indicated for use in the prevention or treatment of physiological reactions conditions including thromboembolic disorder arterial cardiovascular thromboembolic disorders venous cardiovascular thromboembolic disorders thromboembolic disorders in the chambers of the heart unstable angina an acute coronary syndrome atrial fibrillation first myocardial infarction recurrent myocardial infarction ischemic sudden death transient ischemic attack stroke atherosclerosis peripheral occlusive arterial disease venous thrombosis deep vein thrombosis thrombophlebitis arterial embolism coronary arterial thrombosis cerebral arterial thrombosis cerebral embolism kidney embolism pulmonary embolism and thrombosis resulting from a prosthetic valves or other implants b indwelling catheters c stents d cardiopulmonary bypass e hemodialysis or f other procedures in which blood is exposed to an artificial surface that promotes thrombosis blood coagulation fibrinolysis blood pressure regulation and inflammation and wound healing catalyzed by the aforesaid class of enzymes. Specifically the compounds have utility as drugs for the treatment of diseases arising from elevated thrombin activity of the aforementioned serine proteases such as myocardial infarction and as reagents used as anticoagulants in the processing of blood to plasma for diagnostic and other commercial purposes.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered alone or in combination with one or more additional therapeutic agents. These include other anticoagulant or coagulation inhibitory agents anti platelet or platelet inhibitory agents anti inflammatory agents thrombin inhibitors thrombolytic or fibrinolytic agents thrombin receptor PAR 1 antagonists factor VIIa inhibitors factor VIIIa inhibitor factor IXa inhibitors different from the compounds of Formula I factor Xa inhibitors factor XIa inhibitors a TAFI inhibitor and fibrinogen receptor antagonists. Additionally compounds of the invention can be administered in combination with warfarin heparin aprotinin a synthetic pentasaccharide a boroarginine derivative a boropeptide heparin hirudin argatroban a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist a thromboxane A2 synthetase inhibitor a PDE III inhibitor a PDE V inhibitor a ADP receptor antagonist an antagonist of the purinergic receptor P2Y1 an antagonist of the purinergic receptor P2Y12 tissue plasminogen activator and modified forms thereof anistreplase urokinase streptokinase tenecteplase lanoteplase a PAI I inhibitor an alpha 2 antiplasmin inhibitor an anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor a squalene synthetase inhibitor a fibrate a bile acid sequestrant an ACAT inhibitor a MTP inhibitor a lipooxygenase inhibitor a cholesterol absorption inhibitor a cholesterol ester transfer protein inhibitor an alpha adrenergic blocker a beta adrenergic blocker a calcium channel blocker a diuretic a renin inhibitor an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor an angiotensin II receptor antagnonist an ET receptor antagonist a Dual ET All antagonist a neutral endopeptidase inhibitor a vasopepsidase inhibitor a Class I agent a Class II agent a Class III agent a Class IV agent an IAch inhibitor an IKur inhibitor and a cardiac glycoside.

The compounds are administered to a mammal in a therapeutically effective amount. By therapeutically effective amount it is meant an amount of a compound of the present invention that when administered alone or in combination with an additional therapeutic agent to a mammal is effective to treat i.e. prevent inhibit or ameliorate the thromboembolic and or inflammatory disease condition or treat the progression of the disease in a host.

The compounds of the invention are preferably administered alone to a mammal in a therapeutically effective amount. However the compounds of the invention can also be administered in combination with an additional therapeutic agent as defined below to a mammal in a therapeutically effective amount. When administered in a combination the combination of compounds in preferably but not necessarily a synergistic combination. Synergy as described for example by Chou and Talalay 1984 22 27 55 occurs when the effect in this case inhibition of the desired target of the compounds when administered in combination is greater than the additive effect of the compounds when administered alone as a single agent. In general a synergistic effect is most clearly demonstrated at suboptimal concentrations of the compounds. Synergy can be in terms of lower cytotoxicity increased anticoagulant effect or some other beneficial effect of the combination compared with the individual components.

By administered in combination or combination therapy it is meant that the compound of the present invention and one or more additional therapeutic agents are administered concurrently to the mammal being treated. When administered in combination each component may be administered at the same time or sequentially in any order at different points in time. Thus each component may be administered separately but sufficiently closely in time so as to provide the desired therapeutic effect.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of the invention. The additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents that is active in the body including pro drugs that convert to pharmaceutically active form after administration which is different from the compound of Formula I and also includes free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said additional active agents when such forms are sold commercially or are otherwise chemically possible. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to antihypertensive agents additional diuretics anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g. alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists also known as angiotensin receptor blockers or ARBs e.g. losartan i.e. COZAAR valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan eprosartan irbesartan and any of these drugs used in combination with hydrochlorothiazide such as HYZAAR diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ potassium sparing diuretics such as amiloride HCl spironolactone epleranone triamterene each with or without HCTZ neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators e.g. nitroprusside calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine verapamil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil niludipine nimodipine nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds for the treatment of diabetes such as biguanides e.g. metformin meglitinides e.g. repaglinide nateglinide sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide glimepiride glipizide glyburide tolazamide tolbutamide thiazolidinediones also referred to as glitazones e.g. pioglitazone rosiglitazone alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose miglitol dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin JANUVIA alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin ergot alkaloids e.g. bromocriptine combination medications such as JANUMET sitagliptin with metformin and injectable diabetes medications such as exenatide and pramlintide acetate or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including but not limited to diazoxide and including the free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms of the above active agents where chemically possible.

Compounds which can be alternatively or additionally administered in combination with the compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to anticoagulants anti thrombin agents anti platelet agents fibrinolytics hypolipidemic agents antihypertensive agents and anti ischemic agents.

Anticoagulant agents or coagulation inhibitory agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention include warfarin heparin either unfractionated heparin or any commercially available low molecular weight heparin for example enoxaparin and dalteparin aprotinin synthetic pentasaccharide inhibitors of Factor Xa such as fondaparinux and idraparinux direct Factor Xa inhibitors such as rivaroxaban apixaban betrixaban edoxaban otamixaban direct acting thrombin inhibitors including hirudin dabigatran argatroban ximelagatran melagatran lepirudin desirudin and bivalirudin as well as other factor VIIa inhibitors VIIIa inhibitors IXa inhibitors Xa inhibitors XIa inhibitors fibrinogen receptor antagonists including abciximab eptifibatide and tirofiban TAFI inhibitors and others known in the art. Factor IXa inhibitors different from the compounds of Formula I include synthetic active site blocked competitive inhibitors oral inhibitors and RNA aptamers. These are described in the previously cited Howard et al. reference Howard E L Becker K C Rusconi C P Becker R C. Factor IXa Inhibitors as Novel Anticoagulents. 2007 27 722 727. .

The term anti platelet agents or platelet inhibitory agents as used herein denotes agents that inhibit platelet function for example by inhibiting the aggregation adhesion or granular secretion of platelets. Such agents include but are not limited to the various known non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDS such as aspirin ibuprofen naproxen sulindac indomethacin mefenamate droxicam diclofenac sulfinpyrazone and piroxicam including pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof. Of the NSAIDS aspirin acetylsalicylic acid or ASA and piroxicam are preferred. Other suitable platelet inhibitory agents include IIb IIIa antagonists e.g. tirofiban eptifibatide and abciximab thromboxane A2 receptor antagonists e.g. ifetroban thromboxane A2 synthetase inhibitors phosphodiesterase III PDE III inhibitors e.g. dipyridamole cilostazol and PDE V inhibitors such as sildenafil and pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof.

The term anti platelet agents or platelet inhibitory agents as used herein is also intended to include ADP adenosine diphosphate receptor antagonists preferable antagonists of the purinergic receptors P2Y1 and P2Y12 with P2Y12 being even more preferred. Preferred P2Y12 receptor antagonists include ticlopidine prasugrel clopidogrel elinogrel ticagrelor and cangrelor including pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof. Clopidogrel is an even more preferred agent. Ticlopidine and clopidogrel are also preferred compounds since they are known to be gentle on the gastro intestinal tract in use. The compounds of the present invention may also be dosed in combination with aprotinin.

The term thrombin inhibitors or anti thrombin agents as used herein denotes inhibitors of the serine protease thrombin. By inhibiting thrombin various thrombin mediated processes such as thrombin mediated platelet activation that is for example the aggregation of platelets and or the granular secretion of plasminogen activator inhibitor I and or serotonin endothelial cell activation inflammatory reactions and or fibrin formation are disrupted. A number of thrombin inhibitors are known to one of skill in the art and these inhibitors are contemplated to be used in combination with the present compounds. Such inhibitors include but are not limited to boroarginine derivatives boropeptides heparins hirudin dabigatran and argatroban including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof. Boroarginine derivatives and boropeptiders include N acetyl and peptide derivatives of boronic acid such as C terminal alpha aminoboronic acid derivatives of lysine ornithine arginine homoarginine and corresponding isothiouronium analogs thereof. The term hirudin as used herein includes suitable derivatives or analogs of hirudin referred to herein as hirulogs such as disulfatohirudin.

The term thrombin receptor antagonists also known as protease activated receptor PAR antagonists or PAR 1 antagonists are useful in the treatment of thrombotic inflammatory atherosclerotic and fibroproliferative disorders as well as other disorders in which thrombin and its receptor play a pathological role.

Thrombin receptor antagonist peptides have been identified based on structure activity studies involving substitutions of amino acids on thrombin receptors. In Bernatowicz et al 39 pp. 4879 4887 1996 tetra and pentapeptides are disclosed as being potent thrombin receptor antagonists for example N trans cinnamoyl p fluoroPhe p guanidinoPhe Leu Arg NH2 and N trans cinnamoyl p fluoroPhe p guanidinoPhe Leu Arg Arg NH2. Peptide thrombin receptor antagonists are also disclosed in WO 94 03479.

Substituted tricyclic thrombin receptor antagonists are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 063 847 6 326 380 and WO 01 96330 and Ser. No. 10 271 715.

Other thrombin receptor antagonists include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 304 078 7 235 567 7 037 920 6 645 987 and EP Patent Nos. EP1495018 and EP1294714.

The term thrombolytic or fibrinolytic agents or thrombolytics or fibrinolytics as used herein denotes agents that lyse blood clots thrombi . Such agents include tissue plasminogen activator TPA natural or recombinant and modified forms thereof anistreplase urokinase streptokinase tenecteplase TNK lanoteplase nPA factor VIIa inhibitors PAI I inhibitors i.e. inactivators of tissue plasminogen activator inhibitors alpha 2 antiplasmin inhibitors and anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complexes including pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof. The term anistreplase as used herein refers to anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complexes as described for example in European Patent Application No. 028 489. The term urokinase as used herein is intended to denote both dual and single chain urokinase the latter also being referred to herein as prourokinase.

Examples of suitable anti arrhythmic agents for use in combination with the present compounds include Class I agents such as propafenone Class II agents such as carvedilol and propranolol Class III agents such as sotalol dofetilide aminodarone azimilide and ibutilide Class IV agents such as ditiazem and verapamil IAch inhibitors and IKur inhibitors e.g. compounds such as those disclosed in WO01 40231 .

