---

title: Automatic fading of online user content
abstract: Automatically fading online user content may include receiving digital content from a first user, the digital content associated with a first user-defined fading time indication; posting the digital content at a first time; associating, using the one or more computing devices, the first user-defined fading time indication with the digital content; receiving, at a second time, from a second user, a request to view the digital content, the second time being after the first time and the second user being distinct from the first user; determining the availability of the digital content based at least in part on the difference between the second time and the first time and the first user-defined fading time indication; and when the determined availability includes availability of one or more aspects of the digital content to the second user, providing for display to the second user the available one or more aspects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483801&OS=09483801&RS=09483801
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09483801
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120716
---
The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to automatic fading of user attribution to online content in a social network and more particularly to automatic fading of online user content.

An online user may post content such as a recommendation a tag a comment a post a video an image or data associated with an application e.g. a high score for an online game application . This posted content of the user may be made available to others. For example the posted content of the user may be made available to the online public to all online users or to a subset of commonly associated users e.g. a circle of family members or friends .

After posting the content the online user may determine that he or she does not want to be attributed to previously posted content. For example the online user may not want the publicity or personalization associated with the posted online content.

The reasons for such a determination by the user may be associated with personal life events such as graduating from school and interviewing for a job but not wanting previous posts that may be critical of a potential employer to be attributed to the online user. As another example a user may no longer wish to maintain attribution due to a time limitation on the usefulness of the comments e.g. comments on a television show set to fade at the end of a season comments on a sports team set to fade at the start of a new season comments associated with an event e.g. holiday party set to fade after a few weeks or months comments on school friends fade at some point after graduation 

On the other hand the user may not want to disrupt the viewing of the content itself but may only want to remove attribution. The online user can only manually delete the content. However the online user cannot schedule a future removal of attribution or remove attribution in a graduated or delayed manner.

A method of automatically fading online user content is described. The subject matter includes at least a computing device a computer product and a method for receiving using one or more computing devices digital content from a first user wherein the digital content received from the first user is associated with a first user defined fading time indication posting using the one or more computing devices the digital content at a first time associating using the one or more computing devices the first user defined fading time indication with the digital content receiving using the one or more computing devices at a second time from a second user a request to view the digital content wherein the second time is after the first time and wherein the second user is distinct from the first user determining using the one or more computing devices the availability of the digital content based at least in part on the difference between the second time and the first time and the first user defined fading time indication and when the determined availability of the digital content includes availability of one or more aspects of the digital content to the second user providing for display to the second user using the one or more computing devices the available one or more aspects of the digital content to the second user.

Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. Examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing automatic fading of online user content.

An online user may want his or her association with the online content to disappear. Thus automatic fading of attribution of an online user to online content is provided. More specifically according to an example embodiment an online user may schedule a fading operation to be automatically performed in the future after a prescribed amount of time has passed.

The automatic fading options and anonymization management may be separately determined by the user for various categories. For example the user may set the above discussed fade operation details for recommendations e.g. 1 comments posts tags videos online game applications played images data associated with applications or other category of online content.

Alternatively the categories of content may include interests hobbies events or other user defined categories. For example an inferred or explicit interest may be implemented as one or more of the categories of content. Such interests may relate to music sports films or other category that an online user may wish to apply to correlate content. According to these user defined categories of content the online user may define the category based on an intended fading of content.

The foregoing example embodiments may be implemented in a user interface in conjunction with an account settings page such that the settings are applied to all content that is created at any time after the user has set the fade options.

Alternatively the fade options may be provided to the user at the time of the posting of the content. For example a user may be provided with the fading options in a sharebox e.g. interface in which sharing of content and the parameters of sharing are entered when determining to share content with one or more other online users. Thus the online user may set the fade at the time of the creation of individual online content posting.

For example the user may edit parameters including the amount of time that must pass for the fading operation to be performed automatically and the type of fading operation to be performed. These parameters may be edited prior to or after the posting of content or alternatively at the time that content is posted as explained below.

In the example embodiment the amount of the time that must pass for the fading operation to be formed have either the commencement of the rule or the time of the posting as the starting time. Other time periods may be substituted therefore as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

In the example embodiment the online user may select the type of fade operation as a full deletion of the attribution of the user to the content as well as the content itself.

Alternatively the user may select the type of fade operation as anonymizing the post by removing attribution to the online user of the content without deleting the content itself. More specifically the content remains available while the online user is fully disassociated with the content. For example the term anonymous may replace the user attribution when the content is displayed to other users while the content remains available without modification.

Further the online user may select the type of fade operation as only allowing certain online circles to view user attribution. For example an online user may have attribution to content changed from being publicly available to only being viewable by a circle of online friends or a circle of online family members.

Thus an online user can control both the timing and the degree of the fade operation by editing the content fading parameters as discussed above.

Additionally anonymization may be managed by allowing an online user to view specific data and set the automatic fade options for the specific data. For example an online user can select a time period of one year and a fading operation that deletes the content.

However the online user may use anonymization management to change the settings for specific data within the content category such that a specific posting of content may have a different automatic fade option or may be excluded from the fading parameters set for the online content by the user.

Thus the online user can create exceptions to the fading rules for specific data within a category of data.

Additional variations on the foregoing example embodiments include staggering of the fade. For example an online user may determine that the user attribution is being publicly available for two years from the posting of the content and then becomes anonymous to the public except for all online circles of which the user is a member. Within three years of the posting of the content the anonymization is extended to one or more online circles of which the user is a member. Within five years from the posting of the content the content is permanently deleted. As explained above the fading may be based on content type or an online user defined category.

According to the anonymization of user attribution as explained above the fading to anonymization may be reversed so that user attribution is restored either immediately or after a time period has elapsed from the anonymization.

Optionally a user may be provided with an interface such as a pop up window that warns a user that a fade is about to occur. For example the user may be prompted to confirm that he or she wishes for the fade action to occur.

In the foregoing example embodiments the content of the posting is not modified as a part of the anonymization. Only the attribution to an online user is modified. Thus the content of the posting itself continues to remain fully available or is fully deleted. The actual content other than the attribution is not modified. However the example embodiments are not limited to this particular implementation and other variations of fading may be substituted therefore or combined there with as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

Another example embodiment the foregoing fading operation may also be applied to the fading of members or online circles. For example after a time has elapsed since the last interaction with the circle by a member of the circle the appearance of the member of the circle may change e.g. shaded or different color .

In this example user interface at it is shown that the post by the first user has been 1 d by two users e.g. 2 . The first user has 1 d his or her own post as is identified as Poster 1 . Another user has 1 d his or her own post and the attribution to the user has been faded to Anonymous . Thus the existence of the 1 itself is still visible although the user attribution has been anonymized.

In this example user interface at it is shown that the post by the first user has been 1 d by two users e.g. 2 . Additionally a comment has been posted e.g. This is a comment by Poster 2 by a second user. The attribution of the comment to the second user has faded. More specifically the term Poster 2 has been replaced by Anonymous to indicate the fading of the user attribution. However the content of the post itself does not fade in this example.

In this example user interface at the term Anonymous has been selected such that a user can attempt to obtain further information about the anonymous poster. Additionally the comment posted by the second user remains without attribution to the second user. Further the user attribution that is provided when a user attempts to obtain further information about Poster 2 continues to indicate the attribution as Anonymous . However the additional user information e.g. Patent Attorney is not faded in this example user interface.

According to an example process the user is provided with an interface that permits the user to set the fade parameters. As explained above this interface may be provided at the time of the creation of the online content e.g. sharebox or may be created at a different time as a part of an account settings process. In the account settings process the user may have to select one or more content types the fade parameters are to be applied.

Once the user has determined to set the fade parameters the user is presented within options for timing and type of fade operation as explained above.

Once the fade parameters have been set the content entered by the user for the particular type of content is identified for future fading. For example the content may be identified by a flag setting tagging or metadata associated with the content or other identification as would be understood by those skilled in the art. Additionally a process is performed either continuously or in batch that checks whether the fade time has expired.

When the fade time has expired the fade operation is performed as explained above. After the fade operation has been performed user attribution to the content is modified as indicated by the fade parameters e.g. deletion anonymization or limitation to online circles .

Thus automatic fading of a user s association with content after a user determined time period is performed.

As shown in block a user may post online content at a first time e.g. T . At block which occurs at a second time e.g. T the user determines a time period T and a type of fade. As explained above the type of fade may include a complete deletion of the content and attribution maintaining the content and anonymizing the attribution and fading to a circle or circles. Thus the user has posted his or her content before setting the parameters for content fading.

At block a determination is made as to whether the time period for the fade has passed. For example if the amount of time that has passed since the posting of content at time T exceeds the time period T it is determined that the time period has passed. If the time period has not passed at block a timer is incremented and block is repeated.

If the time period T has passed then at block an optional display is provided to the user. More specifically a user may be informed that his or her that the time period for fading has been met. Further the user may be prompted to confirm fading of the content e.g. pop up window .

At block the automatic fade operation is performed e.g. executed based on the type of fade operation selected in block . As explained above with respect to the fade parameters may be edited so as to change the time period T or the type of fade. Further anonymization may be managed in a manner that fades the content of selected content records in a manner that is independent of the parameters for the category of data. Once the fade operation has been performed the content and or attribution is modified or deleted as explained above.

In some examples processes A C and A B may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Process processes A C and A B may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

At block at time T is it determined whether the time period T for the fade has passed e.g. is the difference between the current time T and the time of posting and determining fade parameters T greater than or equal to the time period T. The execution of blocks and is substantially the same as described above with respect to . Therefore the description of these blocks is omitted from the discussion of .

At block a request is received from a second user e.g. user distinct from the first user e.g. user to view the digital content at a second time e.g. T that is after the first time T. At block a determination is made as to the availability of the content. For example but not by way of limitation this determination may be based at least in part on a difference between the second time T and the first time T and the first user defined fading time indication F.

If the determination is negative at block the digital content is faded. Accordingly at block the digital content is either deleted and thus not available or displayed without user attribution to the second user e.g. user . For example the second user may be able to view the content but not the user attribution. Alternatively only users in certain circles may be able to view the user attribution with the content whereas users not in the certain circles can only view the content but not the user attribution.

If the determination is positive at block the digital content is available. Accordingly at block the digital content is displayed to the second user e.g. user . For example the second user may be able to view the content as well as the user attribution.

If the user determines to not edit fade parameters at block then at block the user selects a fade type. If the selected fade type is determined to be delete at block then at block the user selects a time period T to delete content and user attribution.

If the selected fade type is not delete at block at block it is determined whether the selected fade type is anonymize . If so at block the user selects a time period T to delete user attribution but to not delete the content itself e.g. anonymize .

If the selected fade type is not anonymize at block then the fade type is limited to circles as shown at block . Accordingly at block a user selects a time period T to delete public attribution of the user to the posted online content and to not delete the content. At block the user selects circles e.g. commonly grouped users such as family friends or coworkers to exempt from the deletion of user attribution of block .

As explained above if the user determines to not edit fade parameters then at A the process flows to process B at . At block a determination is made as to whether to manage anonymization. The management of anonymization is disclosed above.

If a determination is made to manage anonymization at block e.g. selection of elements of at block a list of records to be faded for the user content type is displayed. At block a user selects one or more records for modification of fade settings. For example a user may select one or more records of a post an image a video a 1 or other type of content such as a user defined category dependent on the type of user content selected. At block the user performs action for the one or more records to except the one or more records from the fade rule for the selected type of user content. For example a user may determine to not fade certain images associated with an event due to a desire to maintain user attribution.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example embodiments input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other example embodiments other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions to implement at least one embodiment e.g. a described embodiment . Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can be originated from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. To implement a described embodiment one or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit parameter control anonymization management fade timer and execution control and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example parameter control anonymization management and fade timer and execution control may implement one or more processes shown in A B and . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example embodiments when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit parameter control anonymization management and fade timer and execution control . For example parameter control may receive information from the input unit to determine parameter information such as a time period and a type of fade anonymization management may receive input from the input unit to provide for exceptions to the parameters set for the content type and fade timer and execution control may change the availability of the content and or user attribution of the content after input unit has detected a user indication or feedback input unit may use API unit to communicate the user indication to parameter control . Feedback management unit may via API unit interact with the anonymization management to detect and process a comment. Using API unit parameter control may interact with fade timer and execution control to determine whether to propagate the feedback and or identify information to an upstream post.

In some examples logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit parameter control anonymization management and fade timer and execution control in order to implement an embodiment described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example embodiments have been shown and described these example embodiments are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the described example embodiments. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example embodiments without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

