---

title: Trusted peer-based information verification system
abstract: A system for providing a trusted peer-based information verification system may include one or more processors and a memory. The one or more processors may facilitate steps of receiving an identification item from a server hosting a web site and providing a request for verification of the identification item to devices of trusted peers. The steps may further include receiving verification responses from the devices of the trusted peers. The verification responses may be indicative of whether identification items received by the devices of the trusted peers via the web site are different than the identification item received from the server hosting the web site. The steps may further include determining a validity of the identification item based on the verification responses received from the devices of the trusted peers. In one example the identification item may be a digital certificate, such as a public key certificate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083696&OS=09083696&RS=09083696
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09083696
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120530
---
The present description relates generally to verification systems and more particularly but not exclusively to a trusted peer based information verification system.

The Internet may provide users with an abundance of readily accessible information such as the documents of the World Wide Web. However due to the ease at which information can be published onto the Internet it may be difficult for users to verify the validity of information retrieved from the Internet. It may also be difficult for users to verify the identity of the web servers that provide the information over the Internet even when the web servers implement secure communication protocols.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a machine implemented method for providing a trusted peer based information verification system. The method may include receiving using one or more computing devices an identification item from a server hosting a web site. The method may further include providing using the one or more computing devices a request for verification of the identification item to devices of trusted peers. The method may further include receiving using the one or more computing devices verification responses from the devices of the trusted peers wherein the verification responses are indicative of whether identification items received by the devices of the trusted peers via the web site are different than the identification item received from the server hosting the web site. The method may further include determining using the one or more computing devices a validity of the identification item based on the verification responses received from the devices of the trusted peers.

In another aspect a machine implemented method may include receiving using one or more computing devices a verification request from a device of a trusted peer wherein the verification request comprises a first identification item and an identifier of a web site corresponding to the first identification item. The method may further include retrieving using the one or more computing devices and from a memory a second identification item received from a server hosting the web site and determining using the one or more computing devices whether the first identification item is different than the second identification item. The method may further include providing using the one or more computing devices an indication of whether the second identification item is different than the first identification item to the device of the trusted peer. The method may further include blocking using the one or more computing devices subsequent communications with the server hosting the web site when the second identification item is determined to be different than the first identification item.

In another aspect a machine implemented method may include receiving using one or more computing devices a verification request from a requesting device of a requesting user wherein the verification request comprises a verification information item and an identifier of a web site. The method may further include determining using the one or more computing devices a plurality of users associated with the requesting user and providing using the one or more computing devices the verification request to a plurality of devices of the plurality of users associated with the requesting user. The method may further include receiving using the one or more computing devices verification responses from at least some of the plurality of devices of at least some of the plurality of users wherein the verification responses are indicative of whether information items received by the at least some of the plurality of devices via the web site are different than the verification information item of the verification request. The method may further include determining using the one or more computing devices a validity of the verification information item based on the received verification responses and providing using the one or more computing devices the validity of the verification information item to the requesting device of the requesting user. The method may further include providing when the verification information item is determined to be invalid and using the one or more computing devices the validity of the verification information item to the plurality of devices of the plurality of users associated with the user.

The disclosed subject matter also relates to a system for providing a trusted peer based information verification system. The system may include one or more processors and a memory including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to facilitate the steps of receiving a public key certificate from a server hosting a web site providing a request for verification of the public key certificate to devices of trusted peers wherein the request for verification comprises the public key certificate and an identifier of the web site receiving verification responses from the devices of the trusted peers wherein the verification responses are indicative of whether public key certificates received by the devices of the trusted peers via the web site are different than the public key certificate received from the server hosting the web site and determining a validity of the public key certificate based on the verification responses received from the devices of the trusted peers.

The disclosed subject matter also relates to a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform a method that includes receiving a verification request from a requesting device of a requesting user wherein the verification request comprises a verification public key certificate and an identifier of a web site. The method may further include determining a plurality of users associated with the requesting user providing the verification request to a plurality of devices of the plurality of users associated with the requesting user. The method may further include receiving verification responses from at least some of the plurality of devices of at least some of the plurality of users wherein the verification responses are indicative of whether public key certificates received by the at least some of the plurality of devices via the web site are different than the verification public key certificate of the verification request. The method may further include determining a validity of the verification public key certificate based on the received verification responses and providing the validity of the verification public key certificate to the requesting device of the requesting user. The method may further include providing when the verification public key certificate is determined to be invalid the validity of the verification public key certificate to the plurality of devices of the plurality of users associated with the requesting user.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

In order to allow users to interact securely with a web site a secure sockets layer SSL web server hosting the web site may implement an asymmetric cryptography scheme. In an asymmetric cryptography scheme the web server may encrypt communications with a user using a private key that is only known to the web server. The web server may then provide the user with a public key that may be used to decrypt communications from the web server that have been encrypted using the web server s private key. In this manner the asymmetric cryptography scheme may provide for secure transactions with the web server however the asymmetric cryptography scheme does not provide any assurance to a user that the web server that transmitted the public key is being operated by the entity represented by the web site rather than a malicious entity.

In order to provide some assurance to users that an SSL web server transmitting a public key for a web site is being operated by the entity represented by the web site the entity may obtain a public key certificate signed by a certificate provider. The public key certificate may indicate that the certificate provider has verified that the public key and consequently the SSL web server transmitting the public key correspond to the entity represented by the web site. The certificate provider may be a third party that is known and trusted by the users. The certificate provider may sign public key certificates with the certificate provider s private key. In this manner a web site may provide the public key certificate signed by the certificate provider to a user and the user may verify the signature of the certificate provider using the certificate provider s public key. Upon verifying that the public key certificate was signed by a trusted certificate provider the user may be generally assured that the public key and the SSL web server that transmitted the public key correspond to the entity represented by the web site at least at the time that the public key certificate was signed by the certificate provider.

However the public key certificate scheme may be limited in that users are only able to verify that the public key certificate was signed at some point in time by the certificate provider. The public key certificate scheme may not provide users with a mechanism for verifying whether the certificate has been revoked and or whether the certificate provider should no longer be trusted e.g. whether the certificate provider s signing authority has been revoked and or whether the certificate provider s security has been compromised. For example if the security of a certificate provider s systems or of the certificate provider s private key have been compromised an unauthorized third party may be able to sign public key certificates using the certificate provider s private key. In this instance a user may successfully verify that a given public key certificate was signed by a private key of a trusted certificate provider but the user may be unaware that the public key certificate was signed by an unauthorized third party rather than the trusted certificate provider and therefore should not be trusted. Similarly if a certificate provider is under the jurisdiction of a foreign government the foreign government may be able to force the certificate provider to sign public key certificates for any reason such as for malicious or harmful reasons.

In order to enhance the security of the public key certificate scheme a certificate revocation list may be provided to users that identifies public key certificates that have been revoked for example when the private key of the certificate provider has been compromised. The certificate revocation list may be signed by a third party that is known and trusted by the users. However a certificate revocation list may only be useful when the list can be communicated to all affected users in a timely manner which may not always be possible or practical. Furthermore a certificate revocation list scheme may suffer from the same vulnerabilities as the public key certificate scheme e.g. a user may be unable to verify whether the private key of the signer of the certificate revocation list has been compromised.

A trusted peer based information verification system may provide a more robust enhancement of the security of a public key certificate scheme by providing users with a trusted peer based verification of the validity of a public key certificate received from a web site. In a trusted peer based verification system a user may verify information accessed over the Internet such as a public key certificate with a group of their trusted peers e.g. trusted connections in the user s social network or any other group of peers that have been identified as trusted.

For example in some embodiments herein upon receiving information over the Internet such as a public key certificate a user s device may access or build a list of trusted peers such as a list of the user s connections or friends within one or more social networks. The user s device may use the list of trusted peers to communicate the received information or some indicia thereof e.g. a hash of the information to devices of the user s trusted peers along with an indication of the web site from which the information was received such as the uniform resource locator URL of the web site. If the devices of the user s trusted peers have received comparable information from the identified web site such as a public key certificate the devices may respond with an indication of whether the information they received from the web site matches the information received by the user. For example a device of a trusted peer may send an indication of match to indicate that the information received by the user from the web site matches the information received by the user s trusted peer from the web site or an indication of mismatch to indicate that the information received by the user from the web site does not match the information received by the user s trusted peer from the web site. Alternatively or in addition the device of the user s trusted peer may send an indication of not received to indicate that the user s trusted peer has not received comparable information from the web site. In various embodiments the information may not be transmitted to or from the trusted peers unless the appropriate parties have been provided notice and or consent has been obtained.

If the user s device receives an indication of match from all of the devices of the user s trusted peers then the user can be assured that the public key certificate received from the web site is most likely valid. However if the user s device receives an indication of mismatch from one or more of the devices of the user s trusted peers then the user s device may determine that either the user or one or more of the user s trusted peers have received a public key certificate from the web site that is invalid. In this instance the user s device may provide an indication to the user that the public key certificate received from the web site may be invalid. Alternatively or in addition the user s device may block any communications from the web server hosting the web site that provided the public key certificate. Alternatively or in addition the user s device may communicate to all of the devices of the user s trusted peers that the web site s public key certificate may be invalid.

In one example the user may create a list of trusted peers such as by providing email addresses of trusted peers providing user identifiers of trusted peers in one or more networks such as one or more social networks providing telephone numbers associated with trusted peers or by providing any other identifiers of peers that are trustworthy e.g. users who have a high likelihood of providing an accurate response to an information verification request. The list of trusted peers may then be accessed by the user s device in order to verify information received over the Internet. For example the user s device may communicate directly with the devices of the user s trusted peers such as through peer to peer connections in order to verify information received from a third party over the Internet. In this manner the trusted peer based information verification system may not suffer from the same security vulnerabilities as a certificate revocation list scheme because the integrity of the trusted peer based verification system is not dependent on the security of any single device such as a certificate provider.

Alternatively or in addition due to the pervasiveness of social networks e.g. that users can access their social networks through almost any device a user s connections in a social network may be used to build the list of trusted peers. For example a user may indicate that all of the users in their social network that the user is connected to should be used as their trusted peers. In this example the device of the user may communicate information received over the Internet and a request for verification thereof to a server associated with the user s social network. The server associated with the user s social network may then communicate the information and the request for verification to the devices of the user s trusted peers e.g. the devices of any users connected to the user in a social network. The devices of the trusted peers may communicate a response to the server associated with the social network or may communicate a response directly to the device of the verifying user. In the example where the devices of the trusted peers communicate the response to the server associated with the social network the server may process the responses and provide an indication of the validity of the information to the device of the user or the server associated with the social network may forward the responses from the devices of the trusted peers to the device of the user.

In one example a user may set a threshold corresponding to a number of mismatched responses that are permissible for a given interaction type before indicating that a public key certificate may be invalid. In this example the user s interactions with a web site may be characterized as one or more interaction types. For example the user s interaction with the web site may be characterized as a passive interaction when the user is not providing any information to the web site. For passive interactions the user may be less concerned about the validity of the public key certificate of the web site. Thus for passive interactions the user may set a high threshold for triggering a notification that the public key certificate of the web site may be invalid. For example the user may not be notified that the public key certificate of the web site may be invalid unless the user s device receives a large number of mismatch responses such as fifty percent of the total responses received.

Alternatively or in addition the user s interaction with the web site may be characterized as an active interaction when the user is providing information to the web site such as personal information. For active interactions the user may be more concerned about the validity of the public key certificate of the web site. Thus for active interactions the user may set a high threshold for triggering a notification that the public key certificate of the web site may be invalid. For example the user may be notified that the public key certificate of the web site may be invalid upon receiving a single mismatch response.

The trusted peer based information verification system may operate on the user s device and or on the device of the user s trusted peers as a browser plug in a system service such as a background service a standalone application or generally as any process that allows the user s device and the devices of the user s trusted peers to send information verification requests and receive information verification responses. The trusted peer based information verification system may also operate as an application of a social network service. In this example the trusted peer based information verification system may utilize the communication and application framework of the social network service in order to build a list of a requesting user s trusted peers e.g. users associated with the requesting user in the social network provide verification requests to the devices of the user s trusted peers and or receive verification responses from the devices of the user s trusted peers.

For explanatory purposes the trusted peer based information verification system has been described in the context of a public key certificate scheme. However the trusted peer based information verification system may be used to verify any information that may be received from a third party over the Internet and or to enhance other security mechanisms such as other asymmetric cryptography security mechanisms.

II. Example Client Server Network Environments for Providing a Trusted Peer Based Information Verification System

In some examples electronic devices can be computing devices such as laptop or desktop computers smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs portable media players tablet computers televisions or other displays with one or more processors coupled thereto or embedded therein or other appropriate computing devices that can be used for displaying a web page or a web application. Alternatively or in addition electronic devices can be devices that do not include a display capable of displaying a web page or a web application or devices that include a display capable of displaying a web page or a web application but are otherwise incapable of displaying a web page or a web application. In general electronic devices may be any devices capable of any form of communication with at least one of the other electronic devices and or with the server irrespective of whether the electronic devices are capable of displaying a web page or a web application. In the example of electronic device is depicted as a smartphone electronic device is depicted as a desktop computer and electronic device is depicted as a tablet device.

In one example server includes processing device and data store . Processing device executes computer instructions stored in data store for example to provide a trusted peer based information verification system to one or more of the electronic devices . Data store may store the computer instructions on non transitory computer readable medium. Alternatively or in addition server may provide a social network service to users accessing the electronic devices and or the server may be associated with a social network service provided to users accessing the electronic devices .

In one example server and or web servers may be individual computing devices such as individual computer servers. In another example server and or web servers may represent more than one computing device working together to perform the actions of a server computer such as a cloud of computers and or a distributed system . In another example server and or web servers may be coupled with various databases storage services or other computing devices. Server and or web servers and the coupled databases storage services or other computing devices may be collocated or may be disparately located.

Communications between electronic devices server and web servers may be facilitated through the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP communication protocol. Other communication protocols may also be used including for example Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP communication for some or all communications between electronic devices server and web servers . In another example the electronic devices may be in communication with one another without communicating with server .

Users interacting with electronic devices may access web sites provided by the web servers that are communicably coupled to network . For example a user interacting with electronic device may request to access a web page provided by a web server . In response to receiving the request from electronic device web server may provide an identification item to the electronic device that corresponds to or may be used to verify the identity of the entity operating the web server. The phrase identification item as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning and may also refer to any item that provides information corresponding to the identity of a web server or of an entity operating the web server such as a digital certificate a public key certificate an Internet Protocol IP address or any other identifier.

Upon receiving the identification item from the web server the electronic device may provide a request for verification of the identification item to a group trusted peers. The phrase trusted peer as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning and may also refer to any other user device or entity that can be characterized as having a high likelihood of providing an accurate response to an information verification request. In one example a group of trusted peers may be a group of peers connected with a user in a social network. The phrase connected as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning and may also refer to a direct or indirect association between users in a network such as a social network. Alternatively or in addition a group of trusted peers may be based on selections of individual contacts in a user s social network preset groups of contacts in the user s social network such as social circles or generally any grouping or arrangement of contacts in the user s social network.

In the trusted peers may be the users accessing electronic devices . The request for verification of the identification item may include the identification item and an identifier of the web site corresponding to the identification item such as the uniform resource locator URL of the web site. The electronic device may receive verification responses from each of the trusted peers that may indicate whether the electronic devices of each of the trusted peers received an identification item from the web server that matches the identification item received by the electronic device .

The phrase matches as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning and may also indicate that two or more identification items are substantially equivalent that two or more identification items convey substantially the same information or that two or more identification items identify or correspond to a same entity. Conversely the phrase mismatches as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning and may also indicate that two or more identification items are not substantially equivalent that two or more identification items do not convey substantially the same information or that two or more identification items do not identify or correspond to a same entity.

The electronic device may process the verification responses received from the devices of the trusted peers and may determine the validity of the identification item based on the verification responses. For example if all of the verification responses received by the electronic device indicate that the identification item received by the electronic device matches the identification items received by the electronic devices of the trusted peers the electronic device may determine that the identification item is invalid. Conversely if the received verification responses indicate that one or more of the electronic devices of the trusted peers received an identification item corresponding to the web server that does not match the identification item received by the electronic device the electronic device may determine that the identification item is invalid. The process of determining the validity of an identification item is discussed further in below.

Alternatively or in addition the electronic device may provide a request for verification to trusted peers for any information items received from the web server . The phrase information item as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning and may also refer to an identification item a digital certificate a public key certificate or generally any information that may be received from a web server or via a web site. In this instance the request for verification may include an information item received from the web server and the identifier of the web site provided by the web server . The electronic devices may provide verification responses indicating whether they received a substantially similar information item from the web server or corresponding to the web server . The electronic device of the user may then determine the validity of the information item based on the verification responses.

In another example the electronic device may receive a request for verification of an identification item or an information item from one of the other electronic devices such as an electronic device of a trusted peer. The request for verification may include the identification item and an identifier of the web site corresponding to the identification item such as the uniform resource locator of the web site. The electronic device may determine whether the electronic device received a comparable identification item for the web site. If the electronic device received a comparable identification item for the web site the electronic device may compare the identification item received for the web site and the identification item received with the request for verification such as by computing and comparing a hash value for each of the identification items comparing the identification items bit by bit or comparing the content of the identification items such as any text included in the identification items or any digital signatures included in the identification items. The electronic device may provide a verification response to the electronic device that indicates whether the electronic device received an identification item for the web site that matches the identification item provided with the request for verification. The process of receiving a verification request and providing a verification response is discussed further in below.

Due to the pervasiveness of social networks across many different electronic devices users may be access their social networks across any of the electronic devices . As such a user may wish to utilize the connections of their social network to build a list of trusted peers since trusted peers identified in the social network may be accessible across the electronic devices such as to receive verification requests and provide verification responses. In one example a user may indicate that any other user they are connected to in the social network directly or indirectly should be included in their group of trusted peers. In this instance the electronic device may build a database of contact information for the user s connections in the social network. The electronic device may then use the database of contact information to provide verification requests to the group of trusted peers.

Alternatively or in addition the trusted peer based information verification system may operate as an application or a module of a social network service. For example the electronic device may make an application programming interface API call to a social network service to request that the social network service transmit the request for verification to the devices of the connected users in the user s social network. Since the connected users may access the social network service from an application executing on any of the electronic devices the social network service may have a built in application and communication framework for communicating the request for verification to the connected users e.g. via the application through which the connected users access the social network service. The process of providing a trusted peer based information verification system through a social network service is discussed further in below.

In block the electronic device may provide a request for verification to the electronic devices of the user s trusted peers. For example the electronic device may retrieve a list of the user s trusted peers such as from memory or via a social network service. The list may include various contact information for providing the request for verification to each of the trusted peers such as internet protocol addresses user identifiers for online services such as social network services telephone numbers or generally any information that may be used to provide the request for verification to the trusted peers. The request for verification may include the identification item along with an identifier of the web site such as a uniform resource locator corresponding to the web site. Alternatively or in addition the request for verification may include an indicia of the identification item such as a hash of the identification item.

In block the electronic device may receive verification responses from the electronic devices of the user s trusted peers. The verification responses may indicate whether the electronic devices of the user s trusted peers received an identification item corresponding to the web site that matches the identification item received by the electronic device for the web site. For example each verification response may indicate that one of the other electronic devices received an identification item that matches the identification item received by the electronic device e.g. a response of match received an identification that does not match the identification item received by the electronic device e.g. a response of mismatch or that one of the other electronic devices did not receive a comparable identification item for the web site. Alternatively or in addition the electronic devices of the trusted peers may only send a verification response if the electronic devices received a comparable identification item for the web site.

In block the electronic device may determine the validity of the identification item based on the verification responses received from the electronic devices of the trusted peers. For example if any of the verification responses indicate that one of the electronic devices received an identification item for the web site that does not match the identification item the electronic device received for the web site e.g. a verification response indicating a mismatch the electronic device may determine that the identification item is invalid. Alternatively or in addition if all of the verification responses indicated a match then the electronic device may determine that the identification item is valid.

Alternatively or in addition the user may set a threshold corresponding to a number of mismatch responses that are permissible for a given interaction type before indicating that an identification item may be invalid. In this example the user s interactions with a web site may be characterized as one or more interaction types. For example the user s interaction with the web site may be characterized as a passive interaction when the user is not providing any information to the web site. For passive interactions the user may be less concerned about the validity of the identification item of the web site. Thus for passive interactions the user may set a high threshold for triggering a notification that the identification item of the web site may be invalid. For example the user may not be notified that an identification item for a web site may be invalid unless the user s device receives a large number of mismatch responses such as fifty percent of the total responses received.

Alternatively or in addition the user s interaction with the web site may be characterized as an active interaction when the user is providing information to the web site such as personal information. For active interactions the user may be more concerned about the validity of the identification item of the web site. Thus for active interactions the user may set a high threshold for triggering a notification that the identification item of the web site may be invalid. For example the user may be notified that the identification item of the web site may be invalid upon receiving a single mismatch response.

In block the electronic device identifies whether the identification item was determined to be valid or invalid. If in block the electronic device identifies that the identification item was determined to be valid the electronic device moves to block . In block the electronic device allows communication with the web server that provided the identification item such as by allowing the user to interact with the web site provided by the web server . If in block the electronic device determines that the identification item is invalid the electronic device moves to block . In block the electronic device blocks communication with the web server that provided the identification item such as by preventing the user from interacting with the web site provided by the web server .

Alternatively or in addition the electronic device may present a graphical indication to the user that is indicative of whether the identification item was determined to be valid or invalid based on the verification responses received from the user s trusted peers. For example the electronic device may present a green indicator to the user when the electronic device determines that the identification item is valid and the electronic device may present a red indicator when the electronic device determines that the identification item.

In one example a graphical characteristic of the indicator may be modified to convey a level of confidence that the identification item is valid or invalid. The level of confidence may be based on the total number of verification responses received from the electronic devices of the trusted peers and or the percentage of the verification responses indicating that the identification item is a match for a valid determination or the percentage of verification responses indicating that the identification item is a mismatch for an invalid determination . The graphical characteristics of the indicator may include the brightness of the indicator the size of the indicator the color of the indicator or generally graphical characteristic that may be modified to convey a determined level of confidence.

In one example the electronic device may receive the verification request directly from the electronic device such as through a peer to peer network connection. Alternatively or in addition the electronic device may receive the verification request from the electronic device through the server . For example the server may proxy the verification requests and the verification responses of the electronic devices and or the server may be associated with a social network service through which the trusted peer based information verification system is provided.

In block the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device received a second identification item for the web site identified by the received identifier such as a second identification item for the web site received through interactions by the electronic device with the web site. For example the electronic device may store such as in memory or in a database received identification items corresponding to web sites such as digital certificates along with identifiers of the web sites corresponding to the identification items. The electronic device may use the identifier of the web site received with the verification request to determine whether the electronic device received an identification item for the web site.

If in block the electronic device determines that a second identification item for the web site has not been received by the electronic device the electronic device moves to block . In block the electronic device provides a verification response to the requesting device indicating that the electronic device has not received an identification item for the web site. Alternatively or in addition the electronic device may not transmit any verification response to the requesting device in block such as for the example where electronic devices do not provide a verification response if no comparable identification item has been received by the electronic devices.

If in block the electronic device determines that an identification item for the web site has been received the electronic device proceeds to block . In block the electronic device retrieves the second identification item for the web site such as from a memory and or a database. In block the electronic device compares the second identification item for the web site to the first identification item for the web site. For example the electronic device may perform a bit comparison of the identification items a hash comparison or generally any comparison technique that can determine whether the identification items are substantially equivalent.

If in block the electronic device determines that the first identification item is different than the second identification item e.g. the first identification item is not substantially equivalent to the second identification item the electronic device proceeds to block . In block the electronic device blocks communications with the web site corresponding to the second identification item. Since the electronic device has determined that another user has received a different identification item for the web site the electronic device can determine that one of the electronic devices may be interacting with the web site through an unauthorized server. Thus the electronic device may block communications with the web site to prevent any malicious interactions from occurring.

In one example electronic device may block communications with the web site for a period of time such as one hour one day or generally any period of time. The electronic device may delete the identification item received for the web site and may request a new identification item for the web site once the period of time has elapsed. The electronic device may then verify the new identification item such as through the trusted peer based information verification system. Alternatively or in addition electronic device may block communications with the web site until electronic device receives a communication from the server that indicates that communications with the web site may be resumed.

In block the electronic device may provide a verification response that indicates whether the first identification item is different than the second identification item. For example the electronic device may transmit a verification response indicating a match when the first identification item is substantially equivalent to the second identification item and the electronic device may transmit a verification response indicating a mismatch when the first identification item is different than the second identification item.

In block the server determines other users that are connected to the requesting user through a social network. In one example the server may provide a social network service to the users. In this instance the server may be able to identify the other users connected to the requesting user through a database associated with the social network service. Alternatively or in addition the server may provide a trusted peer based information verification system but may not provide a social network service. In this instance the server may request contact information for users connected to the requesting user from a social network service such as by sending a request to a server associated with the social network service over the network .

The server may determine the users that are directly connected to the requesting user e.g. users who are only one degree of separation from the requesting user in the social network and or the users that are indirectly connected to the requesting user in the social network. Alternatively or in addition the requesting user may identify a degree of separation to be used to determine the connected users in the social network. The degree of separation may be quantitative such as 1 2 10 etc and or the degree of separation may be qualitative such as close distant etc.

In block the server may provide a verification request to the electronic devices of users determined to be connected to the requesting user. The verification request may include the information item and the uniform receive locator of the web site corresponding to the information item. If the server provides the social network service to the users and or the server can access procedure calls within the social network service such as through an application programming interface API call or by sending a request to a server associated with the social network service the server may provide the verification request through the application framework of the social network service.

For example the server may provide the verification request to the electronic devices by communicating with an application operating on the electronic devices for accessing the social network service. In this manner the trusted peer based information verification system may be implemented within the existing communication and application framework of the social network for example without requiring the users to install separate software or hardware modules. Due to the pervasiveness of applications for accessing social network services across the electronic devices the requesting user may be able to receive verification responses from many of the connected users.

Alternatively or in addition if the server does not provide the social network service the server may provide the verification request to the connected users using the determined contact information for the connected users such as contact information received from the server associated with the social network service. For example the contact information may include one or more contact information items for the connected users such as email addresses telephone numbers internet protocol addresses device identifiers or generally any information that may be used to provide the verification request to electronic devices of the connected users.

In block the server may receive verification responses from the connected users. A verification response received from a connected user may indicate whether the connected user received a comparable information item from the web site that matches or does not match the information item received by the requesting user.

In block the server may determine the validity of the information item based on the received verification responses. For example the server may determine that the information item is invalid if any of the verification responses indicate a mismatch. Conversely the server may determine that the information item is valid if all of the verification responses indicate a match. Alternatively or in addition the number of match or mismatch responses required for a valid or invalid determination may be based on the type of interaction with the web site such as an active interaction or a passive interaction. In this instance the requesting user may provide the server with an indication of the type of interaction with the verification request.

In block if the server determined that the information item is valid the server proceeds to block . In block the server provides an indication that the information item is valid to the requesting user. The server may provide the indication through the application framework of the social network service and or the server may provide the indication separately from the application framework of the social network service.

If in block the server determined that the information item is invalid the server proceeds to block . In block the server provides an indication that the information is invalid to the requesting user and to the connected users. The server may provide the indication through the application framework of the social network service and or the server may provide the indication separately from the application framework of the social network service. In this manner the server can inform the connected users that there may be security concern associated with the web site.

The user then provides verification requests to the trusted peers that include the digital certificate received from the attacker and an identifier of the web site that the user attempted to access. The user may provide the verification request directed to the trusted peers or the user may provide the verification requests to the trusted peers through a sever such as a server associated with a social network service. The trusted peers each may have previously accessed the web site through the web site server before the web site was attacked by the attacker . As such the trusted peers each received a digital certificate from the actual web site server for the web site e.g. the web server operated by the entity represented by the web site.

Upon receiving the verification requests from the user the trusted peers may each compare the digital certificate that they received from the web site server with the digital certificate included with the verification request. Since the digital certificate is different than the digital certificate the trusted peers may each provide a verification response to the user indicating a mismatch e.g. indicating that the digital certificate received by the user for the web site does not match the digital certificate received by the trusted peers for the web site.

The user may receive the verification responses from the trusted peers . Since each of the verification responses may indicate a mismatch the user may determine that the digital certificate is invalid. Upon determining that the digital certificate is invalid the user may block communications with the attacker such as for a period of time or until receiving a communication indicating that communications with the web site may be resumed.

The user then provides a verification requests to the trusted peers that includes the digital certificate received from the web site server and an identifier of the web site that the user attempted to access. The trusted peers each previously accessed the web site server and received the digital certificate from the web site server . As such the trusted peers each received the digital certificate from the actual web site server corresponding to the web site e.g. the web server operated by the entity represented by the web site. However the trusted peer attempted to access the web site and was redirected to the attacker . As such the trusted peer received the digital certificate from the attacker .

Upon receiving the verification requests from the user the trusted peers may each compare the digital certificate that they received from the web site server with the digital certificate included with the verification request. Since the digital certificate received by the trusted peers is the same as the digital certificate included in the verification request each of the trusted peers may provide a verification response to the user indicating a match e.g. indicating that the digital certificate received by the user for the web site is the same as the digital certificate received by the trusted peers for the web site.

The trusted peer may compare the digital certificate that they received from the attacker for the web site with the digital certificate included with the verification request. Since the digital certificate is different than the digital certificate the trusted peer may provide a verification response to the user indicating a mismatch e.g. indicating that the digital certificate received by the user for the web site does not match the digital certificate received by the trusted peer for the web site.

The user may receive the verification responses from the trusted peers . Since one of the verification responses may indicate a mismatch e.g. the verification response received from the trusted user the user may determine that the digital certificate may be invalid. Upon determining that the digital certificate may be invalid the user may block communications with the attacker . Although the user received the actual digital certificate for the web site since the verification response from the trusted peer indicated a mismatch there may be a security concern with regards to the web site.

Alternatively or in addition the trusted peer based information verification system may utilize different thresholds for determining the validity of a digital certificate. For example the threshold for determining that a digital certificate is valid may be based on the percentage of received verification responses indicating a match such as seventy five percent of the received verification responses indicating a match. In the use case since the user may have received three verification responses from the trusted peers that indicate a match and one verification response from the trusted peer that indicates a mismatch seventy five percent of the received verification responses indicated a match. As such a seventy five percent match threshold would have been satisfied by the verification responses received in the use case .

Bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of electronic system . For instance bus communicatively connects processing unit s with ROM system memory and permanent storage device .

From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject disclosure. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. Permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject disclosure use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a floppy disk flash drive and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device . Like permanent storage device system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. System memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject disclosure are stored in system memory permanent storage device and or ROM . For example the various memory units may include instructions for processing generating and or providing verification requests and or verification responses in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

Bus also connects to input and output device interfaces and . Input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations include devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through a network interface . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks such as the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject disclosure.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback such as visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of blocks in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of blocks in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated blocks be performed. Some of the blocks may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject disclosure.

The term website as used herein may include any aspect of a website including one or more web pages one or more servers used to host or store web related content and the like. Accordingly the term website may be used interchangeably with the terms web page and server. The predicate words configured to operable to and programmed to do not imply any particular tangible or intangible modification of a subject but rather are intended to be used interchangeably. For example a processor configured to monitor and control an operation or a component may also mean the processor being programmed to monitor and control the operation or the processor being operable to monitor and control the operation. Likewise a processor configured to execute code can be construed as a processor programmed to execute code or operable to execute code

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

