---

title: Systems and methods for a user-adaptive keyboard
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes detecting one or more user interactions, associated with a user of a computing device, each interaction occurring at a region associated with an input value, and determining, for at least one user interaction, that the at least one user intended to provide a different input value. Adaptation information is generated for the at least one user based on the at least one user interaction. The adaptation information is stored for the at least one user. A user interaction is detected at a region. The user's intended input value is determined based on the user interaction and the adaptation information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600167&OS=09600167&RS=09600167
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09600167
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
The present disclosed subject matter relates to systems and methods for providing input to a computer system including providing input to a mobile computing and or communication system using an input device having an electronic visual display such as a touch screen and adapting characteristics of the input device to usage of particular users.

Mobile computing and communication devices such as cellphones PDAs tablet computers and mini laptops are widely used to perform a variety of computing and communication tasks. Computing devices can include one or more input devices to receive input from a user including a keyboard pointing device microphone camera or other suitable input device. Some computing devices can allow a user to provide input on an electronic visual display such as a touch screen. In this manner a user can provide input by touching a certain portions of the electronic visual display corresponding to a desired input. However users can touch an incorrect portion of the electronic visual display which can result in an incorrect input being provided and thus the user can be required to undo the incorrect input and perform the input again. Such input errors can occur for example when the user intends to touch a particular portion of the display and the computing device recognizes a different portion of the display as being touched. A user can make the same input error more than once for example by repeatedly attempting and failing to touch a certain portion of the screen to provide a corresponding input. Further different users can repeatedly make certain input errors that other users do not. As such there remains an opportunity for improved input devices that can reduce input errors by adapting characteristics of the input device to particular users.

The purpose and advantages of the disclosed subject matter will be set forth in and apparent from the description that follows as well as will be learned by practice of the disclosed subject matter. Additional advantages of the disclosed subject matter will be realized and attained by the methods and systems particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as from the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the disclosed subject matter as embodied and broadly described the disclosed subject matter is related to a method including detecting one or more user interactions associated with a user of a computing device each interaction occurring at a region associated with an input value determining using one or more processors for at least one user interaction that the at least one user intended to provide a different input value generating adaptation information for the at least one user based on the at least one user interaction storing the adaptation information for the at least one user detecting a user interaction at a region and determining using the one or more processors the user s intended input value based on the user interaction and the adaptation information.

For example and as embodied herein the user interaction can include one or more of a click a double click a swipe a gesture use of a stylus use of a remote control use of a pointing device a motion not directly making contact with the computing device or any combination thereof. The user interaction can be detected using one or more of a touch sensitive screen a touch sensor a virtual keyboard an optical sensor a motion sensor or any combination thereof. The input value can include one or more of an alphanumeric character a logogram a pictogram an ideogram a mathematical symbol a typographical symbol an image or any combination thereof. Furthermore the region can include a starting location and an ending location.

In some embodiments the determining can be based on user input correcting the input value. The determining can be based on a set of common typographical errors and or the determining can be based on a dictionary.

Furthermore and as embodied herein the adaptation information may be generated based on a property of the user interaction. The property of the user interaction can include speed force angle duration number of contact points distance or any combination thereof. The adaptation information may also be generated based on a usage context of the computing device whether the computing device is locked being held by the user in a particular hand being held by the user using both hands being held by the user in a particular orientation or whether settings of the computing device have been configured to change the display or any combination thereof. Generating the adaptation information can include performing a comparison between the region associated with the detected input value and a region associated with the different input value.

In some embodiments the adaptation information can be stored for a group of input values and or for a particular type of input format. The adaptation information is stored on the computing device and or can be stored on a computer server. The adaptation information can be stored in association with a user identifier for the at least one user and in some embodiments the computing device can be associated with more than one user.

In some embodiments determining the user s intended input value can include remapping input values to specified regions based on the adaptation information. Additionally or alternatively determining the user s intended input value can include updating a correction scheme for the input values based on the adaptation information. Furthermore and as embodied herein the method can include retrieving adaptation information for the at least one user from a data store upon identification of the at least one user.

The disclosed subject matter is also related to a system including one or more processors and logic encoded in one or more computer readable tangible storage media that when executed by the one or more processors is operable to detect one or more user interactions associated with a user of a computing device each user interaction occurring at a region associated with an input value make a determination using the one or more processors for at least one user interaction that the at least one user intended to provide a different input value generate adaptation information for the at least one user based on the at least one user interaction store the adaptation information for the at least one user detect a user interaction at a region and determine using the one or more processors the user s intended input value based on the user interaction and the adaptation information.

The disclosed subject matter is also related to one or more computer readable non transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed by one or more processors associated with one or more computer systems to detect one or more user interactions associated with a user of a computing device each user interaction occurring at a region associated with an input value make a determination using the one or more processors for at least one user interaction that the at least one user intended to provide a different input value generate adaptation information for the at least one user based on the at least one user interaction store the adaptation information for the at least one user detect a user interaction at a region and determine using the one or more processors the user s intended input value based on the user interaction and the adaptation information.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and are intended to provide further explanation of the disclosed subject matter claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification are included to illustrate and provide a further understanding of the disclosed subject matter. Together with the description the drawings serve to explain the principles of the disclosed subject matter.

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Particular embodiments relate to a social networking environment including a social networking system and related systems that include conventional stationary as well as mobile embodiments. A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Once they are members of the social network the users may interact with the social network itself by viewing and posting images and video on their own page or by using personal computing devices to view and post location based social networking information.

In particular embodiments a user may want to share their personal computing device with another user. Such an occasion may occur informally e.g. a friend who lets a friend try out their device or formally e.g. trying out a device in a retail store . When the personal computing device utilizes software e.g. an operating system and or applications that relies upon personal information including not only confidential information but also any user specific user entered or user generated information to provide a personalized experience the personal computing device may need to shield such personal information belonging to one user from being viewed or accessed by another user. This may include not only the situation where personal information is stored on the device itself but also situations where certain applications and or the operating system have access to personal information stored remotely e.g. email and communication applications such as Gmail or Twitter social networking applications such as Facebook or LinkedIn online banking and e commerce applications or content sharing applications such as YouTube or Picasa .

In particular embodiments a primary user of a personal computing device can protect their personal information by indicating that they are about to share their device with a temporary user e.g. by clicking a button or selecting a menu option . In particular embodiments the personal computing device may be able to detect that the primary user is holding or viewing the device by using biometric identification technology in such embodiments the device may also be able to detect when the primary user has let go of the device or is no longer viewing the device or when another user is holding or viewing the device.

In particular embodiments when the primary user indicates either passively or actively that they are about to share the device with a temporary user or have just handed the device to a temporary user the device may take one or more actions to protect personal information 1 the device may remove or disable access to content applications information or other data for which a user must be authenticated and or authorized e.g. by logging out of a website or by deleting cookies or by disabling access to security certificates 2 the device may remove or disable personal information stored on the device itself and 3 the device may clear out any caches logs and or other sources of information that may track actions taken by or events that occurred with respect to the primary user.

In particular embodiments the device enables the primary user to send an invitation with or without a secure authorization code to a potential temporary user who is then able to log in to the device using information in the invitation. In particular embodiments once the invitation has been sent the device pre loads information associated with the potential temporary user so as to provide a personalized experience once the potential temporary user logs in to the device.

In particular embodiments the device enables sharing with an anonymous temporary guest user. In particular embodiments the device can be configured as a public device intended for use by multiple temporary users. In particular embodiments for anonymous guest users and or for public use the device displays a generic set of applications and content to allow such temporary users to try out features and functionality of the device.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions and or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments a social networking system may be hosted on a server .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may comprise a computer system such as a desktop computer a notebook or laptop a netbook a tablet an e book reader a GPS device a camera a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld electronic device a mobile telephone or another similar processor based electronic device. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . In particular embodiments a client device may comprise a personal computing device as described in .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR . A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments a personal computing device such as a computing device may include various types of sensors such as for example and without limitation touch sensors disposed for example on a display of the device the back of the device and or one or more lateral edges of the device for detecting a user touching the surface of the mobile electronic device e.g. using one or more fingers accelerometer for detecting whether the personal computing device is moving and the speed of the movement thermometer for measuring the temperature change near the personal computing device proximity sensor for detecting the proximity of the personal computing device to another object e.g. a hand desk or other object light sensor for measuring the ambient light around the personal computing device imaging sensor e.g. camera for capturing digital still images and or video of objects near the personal computing device e.g. scenes people bar codes QR codes etc. location sensors e.g. Global Positioning System GPS for determining the location e.g. in terms of latitude and longitude of the mobile electronic device sensors for detecting communication networks within close proximity e.g. near field communication NFC Bluetooth RFID infrared chemical sensors biometric sensors for biometrics based e.g. fingerprint palm vein pattern hand geometry iris retina DNA face voice olfactory sweat authentication of user of personal computing device etc. This disclosure contemplates that a mobile electronic device may include any applicable type of sensor. Sensors may provide various types of sensor data which may be analyzed to determine the user s intention with respect to the mobile electronic device at a given time.

In particular embodiments a sensors hub may optionally be included in personal computing device . Sensors may be connected to sensors hub which may be a low power consuming processor that controls sensors manages power for sensors processes sensor inputs aggregates sensor data and performs certain sensor functions. In addition in particular embodiments some types of sensors may be connected to a controller . In this case sensors hub may be connected to controller which in turn is connected to sensor . Alternatively in particular embodiments there may be a sensor monitor in place of sensors hub for managing sensors .

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side personal computing device may have one or more sensors for performing biometric identification. Such sensors may be positioned on any surface of personal computing device . In example embodiments as the user s hand touches personal computing device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may capture the user s fingerprints or palm vein pattern. In example embodiments while a user is viewing the screen of personal computing device a camera may capture an image of the user s face to perform facial recognition. In example embodiments while a user is viewing the screen of personal computing device an infrared scanner may scan the user s iris and or retina. In example embodiments while a user is in contact or close proximity with personal computing device chemical and or olfactory sensors may capture relevant data about a user. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a change in state with respect to the identity of the user utilizing personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side the personal computing device may have touch sensors on the left and right sides. Optionally the personal computing device may also have touch sensors on the back top or bottom side. Thus as the user s hand touches personal computing device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may detect the user s fingers or palm touching personal computing device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a change in state with respect to a user touching personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have an accelerometer in addition to or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. Sensor data provided by the accelerometer may also be used to estimate whether a new user has picked up personal computing device from a resting position e.g. on a table or desk display shelf or from someone s hand or from within someone s bag. When the user picks up personal computing device and brings it in front of the user s face there may be a relatively sudden increase in the movement speed of personal computing device . This change in the device s movement speed may be detected based on the sensor data supplied by the accelerometer. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the speed of the device s movement either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a Gyrometer in addition or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. A Gyrometer also known as a gyroscope is a device for measuring the orientation along one or more axis. In particular embodiments a Gyrometer may be used to measure the orientation of personal computing device . When personal computing device is stored on a shelf or in the user s bag it may stay mostly in one orientation. However when the user grabs hold of personal computing device and lifts it up and or moves it closer to bring it in front of the user s face there may be a relatively sudden change in the orientation of personal computing device . The orientation of personal computing device may be detected and measured by the gyrometer. If the orientation of personal computing device has changed significantly. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant change in the orientation of personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a light sensor. When personal computing device is stored in a user s pocket or case it is relatively dark around personal computing device . On the other hand when the user brings personal computing device out of his pocket it may be relatively bright around personal computing device especially during day time or in well lit areas. The sensor data supplied by the light sensor may be analyzed to detect when a significant change in the ambient light level around personal computing device occurs. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the ambient light level around personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a proximity sensor. The sensor data supplied by the proximity sensor may be analyzed to detect when personal computing device is in close proximity to a specific object such as the user s hand. For example computing device may have an infrared LED light emitting diode i.e. proximity sensor placed on its back side. When the user holds such a computing device in his hand the palm of the user s hand may cover infrared LED . As a result infrared LED may detect when the user s hand is in close proximity to computing device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that personal computing device is in close proximity to the user s hand either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

A personal computing device may have any number of sensors of various types and these sensors may supply different types of sensor data. Different combinations of the individual types of sensor data may be used together to detect and estimate a user s current intention with respect to personal computing device e.g. whether the user really means to take personal computing device out of his pocket and use it . Sometimes using multiple types of sensor data in combination may yield a more accurate and thus better estimation of the user s intention with respect to personal computing device at a given time than only using a single type of sensor data. Nevertheless it is possible to estimate the user s intention using a single type of sensor data e.g. touch sensor data .

Of course personal computing device is merely an example. In practice a device may have any number of sides and this disclosure contemplates devices with any number of sides. The touch sensors may be placed on any side of a device.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a proximity sensor e.g. an infrared LED placed on its back side. Proximity sensor may be able to supply sensor data for determining its proximity and thus the proximity of personal computing device to another object.

In particular embodiments the user interface of an application may include any number of screens or displays. In particular embodiments each screen or display of the user interface may be implemented as a web page. Thus the device user may interact with the application through a series of screens or displays i.e. a series of web pages . In particular embodiments operating system is Google s Android mobile technology platform. With Android there is a Java package called android.webkit which provides various tools for browsing the web. Among the android.webkit package there is a Java class called android.webkit.WebView which implements a View for displaying web pages. This class uses the WebKit rendering engine to display web pages and includes methods to navigate forward and backward through a history zoom in zoom out perform text searches and so on. In particular embodiments an application user interface may utilize Android s WebView application programming interface API to display each web page of the user interface in a View implemented by the android.webkit.WebView class. Thus in particular embodiments software may include any number of web views each for displaying one or more web pages that implement the user interface of an application.

During the execution of an application the device user may interact with the application through its user interface. For example the user may provide inputs to the application in various displays e.g. web pages . Outputs of the application may be presented to the user in various displays e.g. web pages as well. In particular embodiments when the user provides an input to the application through a specific display e.g. a specific web page an event e.g. an input event may be generated by for example a web view or application user interfaces . Each input event may be forwarded to application functions or application functions may listen for input events thus generated. When application functions receive an input event the appropriate software module in application functions may be invoked to process the event. In addition specific functionalities provided by operating system and or hardware e.g. as described in B may also be invoked. For example if the event is generated as a result of the user pushing a button to take a photo with personal computing device a corresponding image processing module may be invoked to convert the raw image data into an image file e.g. JPG or GIF and store the image file in the storage of personal computing device . As another example if the event is generated as a result of the user selecting an icon to compose an instant message the corresponding short message service SMS module may be invoked to enable the user to compose and send the message.

In particular embodiments when an output of the application is ready to be presented to the user an event e.g. an output event may be generated by for example a software module in application functions or operating system . Each output event may be forwarded to application user interfaces or application user interfaces may listen for output events thus generated. When application user interfaces receive an output event it may construct a web view to display a web page representing or containing the output. For example in response to the user selecting an icon to compose an instant message an output may be constructed that includes a text field that allows the user to input the message. This output may be presented to the user as a web page and displayed to the user in a web view so that the user may type into the text field the message to be sent.

The user interface of an application may be implemented using a suitable programming language e.g. HTML JavaScript or Java . More specifically in particular embodiments each web page that implements a screen or display of the user interface may be implemented using a suitable programming language. In particular embodiments when a web view is constructed to display a web page e.g. by application user interfaces in response to an output event the code implementing the web page is loaded into web view .

For example as shown in a user may wish to log in to web page using a personal computing device . A user can tap on the screen or input another appropriate indication to unlock the device browse to a web page and open up an interface for authentication authorization where the user can log in. illustrates an example user interface that appears on personal computing device to log into a web page. In particular embodiments a message displayed on personal computing device invites the temporary user to enter their authorization information e.g. a login interface for a username and password . In particular embodiments the user can indicate e.g. by marking a checkbox that they would like to for example keep being logged in by saving data related to their login on the personal computing device . In particular embodiments when the temporary user clicks the Log In button to log in personal computing device interacts with the web page to authenticate the user.

In particular embodiments some inputs can be performed by tapping or pressing on a certain region of the screen . For example in a user can select a field to edit by tapping field to select the username field or field to select the password field. As shown in to permit a user to input data into a field for example when a field is selected the personal computing device can display a virtual keyboard on the touch screen . The user can input data by tapping on the symbols of the virtual keyboard to input corresponding letters numbers symbols etc. For example to input a letter P into a field the user can tap the region of the touch screen marked as a box marked with a letter P i.e. the P key . Similarly to input a line break or the completion of an entry the user can tap the Enter key marked as a box with the word Enter. 

A user can perform errors while inputting data using the touch screen . For example while intending to touch the region of the P key a user instead can inadvertently touch an adjacent region of the touch screen . This can cause the user to notice the error and correct the input error or can cause the personal computing device to suggest a correction for a misspelled word. Users can repeatedly perform certain typing errors with detectable consistency. For example when intending to select the P key a user can instead have a tendency to touch a region of the screen several coordinates away from the P key .

According to one aspect of the disclosed subject matter a personal computing device can adapt the virtual keyboard to compensate for the user s tendency to touch the incorrect region. For example as shown in the personal computing device can adjust the position of where the P key is sensed several coordinates in the x and y directions of the touch screen to compensate for the user s tendency to incorrectly tap the P key . Additionally different users can have different tendencies for input errors. For example a different user can tend to tap the P key correctly but can tend to tap the Enter key incorrectly. Accordingly the personal computing device can adjust the position of where certain keys are sensed for each particular user to compensate for the unique tendencies of each user as discussed in further detail below with reference to the diagram of .

Certain interactions can be performed by touching a particular region or regions of touch screen . For example a user interaction can include a single tap or click of a region or a double tap or double click of a region. The user interaction can include a swipe for example by touching across a region of the touch screen in a sweeping manner or a gesture for example by touching a region of the touch screen in a predetermined pattern.

For purpose of illustration and not limitation and as embodied herein interactions can performed by touching the touch screen . However other interactions can be performed using other forms of input. For example a user interaction can be performed by pressing a stylus to a region of the screen or by moving a pointer to a particular region of a screen such as by using a mouse trackball trackpad or other pointing device. Further interactions can be performed directly or can be performed remotely for example by using a remote control. Such interactions can also be performed by a motion not directly making contact with device or with any other device. In this manner a motion can be captured by sensor which can be an optical sensor or motion sensor for example a video camera and the motion can be determined by device to be a user interaction.

Each user interaction detected by device is associated with a particular input value. For example as described above the user interaction of tapping the P key can correspond to the input value of the letter P . In addition to such alphanumeric characters an input value can include a logogram a pictogram an ideogram a mathematical symbol a typographical symbol an image or any combination thereof.

A region can be defined as a single location. For example the P key can be selected by tapping in the location of the touch screen indicated by the P key . Additionally or alternatively a region can be defined as two or more locations. That is some regions can be selected by touching from one location to another location for example by selecting and dragging an icon from one location on the touch screen to another location or by touching more than one location on the touch screen in a particular pattern.

At device determines for at least one user interaction that the user intended to provide a different input value. For example as embodied herein this can occur when the user intends to select a region of touch screen but inadvertently selects another region of touch screen . The inadvertent selection of a region can be considered to be an input error by the user and the inadvertently selected region can be but is not necessarily adjacent and proximate to the intended region.

Device can determine that the user intended to provide a different input value based on input provided by the user to correct an entered input value. For example a user can type a first character into a field and then can erase the first character and replace it with a second character. Based on the correction device can determine that the first character was the result of an input error and that the user intended to provide the second character. Additionally or alternatively device can detect an input error without the user correcting an entered value. For example device can recognize a word entered in an input field is incorrect based on a set of common typographical errors or a dictionary. That is if a user inputs a word or value in the list of common typographical errors device can determine that the user intended to provide a corresponding correct input. Likewise if a user inputs a word or value that is not in a dictionary device can determine that the user intended to provide a closely matching input in the dictionary. Additionally device can provide a prompt to the user to notify that an incorrect word or value has been input and can suggest alternative inputs for the user to select.

In particular embodiments device can determine that the user intended to provide a different input value based on a typeahead predictive algorithm. In an exemplary typeahead predictive algorithm a user can input a first set of characters for example wei into a field such as an internet search field. Based on the first set of characters a frontend typeahead process can determine and display names of matching entries e.g. an entry named weight lifting which the user can then click on or otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to declare the matched entry corresponding to the user s input. By way of example upon clicking weight lifting the frontend typeahead process auto populates or causes the web browser to auto populate the field with the declaration weight lifting. Alternatively the frontend typeahead process can auto populate the field with the name or other identifier of the top ranked match rather than display a drop down menu and the user can confirm the auto populated declaration by keying enter on his or her keyboard or by clicking on the auto populated declaration. Based on the typeahead predictive algorithm device can determine that a user intended to provide a different input value. For example if the typeahead predictive algorithm populates the field with an entry having a first set of characters different from the first set of characters entered by the user device can determine that the user intended to enter the first set of characters of the populated entry.

At device generates adaptation information for the at least one user based on the user interaction. The adaptation information can be generated by performing a comparison between the region associated with the detected input value and a region associated with the different input value. For example as described above device can determine that the user intended to touch the region corresponding to the P key when actually the user touched the region corresponding to the O key. By comparing the region associated with the detected input value the O key in this example with the different or intended input value the P key in this example device can generate adaptation information based on a comparison of the two regions. That is device can recognize that the region corresponding to the O key is 2 coordinates in the x direction from the region corresponding to the P key . In this manner device can generate adaptation information for example that indicates the user touched 2 coordinates to the left of the P key when the user intended to touch the P key region.

The adaptation information can be generated each instance that an input error is made and statistical analysis of the adaptation information such as frequency or magnitude of particular errors can be performed. For example device can recognize that the user made an input error in 3 out of 5 attempts to touch the P key and that the user missed the region corresponding to the P key on average by 2 coordinates in the x direction and 3 coordinates in the y direction.

In particular embodiments the adaptation information can be generated for the user based on a property of the user interaction. A property of the user interaction can include for example speed. That is the adaptation information can indicate that the user makes a particular error or makes a particular more frequently or with a greater magnitude when the user is typing at or above a threshold speed. Another property of the user interaction can include for example force. That is device can detect that a region of the touch screen was pressed at or above a threshold force and can generate adaptation information indicating that the user made a particular error while touching the touch screen at or above the threshold force. Another property of the user interaction can include for example an angle of input. That is device can detect that a region of the touch screen was touched at a certain angle and can generate adaptation information indicating that the user made a particular error while touching the touch screen at the certain angle. Another property of the user interaction can include for example a duration of input. That is device can detect that a region of the touch screen was touched for a certain duration and can generate adaptation information indicating that the user made a particular error while touching the touch screen for the certain duration. Another property of the user interaction can include for example a number of contact points. That is a region associated with a particular input value can have more than one location to be touched and device can generate adaptation information indicating that the user made an error inputting the particular input value having a region with more than one location. The adaptation information generated by device can include any combination of the properties of the user interaction described above or any other suitable properties.

In particular embodiments the adaptation information can be generated for the user based on other factors. For example the adaptation information can be generated for the user indicating whether device is docked. The adaptation information can be generated indicating that device is being held by the user in a particular hand or being held by the user using both hands. Further the adaptation information can be generated indicating that device is being held by the user in a particular orientation for example in a portrait or landscape orientation. Additionally the adaptation information can be generated indicating that settings have been configured to change the display for example to a certain brightness level or to a particular international language setting. The adaptation information generated by device can include information about any combination of the factors described above or any other suitable factors.

At device stores or causes the adaptation information for the user to be stored. The adaptation information can be organized in various ways. For example the adaptation information can be stored for a particular input value. That is device can determine the user performed multiple input errors while intending to enter the letter P and can store the adaptation information for each of these errors associated with the region corresponding to the P key . Similarly the adaptation information can be stored for a group of input values. For example device can determine the user performed multiple input errors while intending to enter the word friend and can store the adaptation information for each of these errors associated with the group of input values corresponding to the word friend . Additionally or alternatively the adaptation information can be stored for a particular type of input format. For example device can determine the user performed multiple input errors while intending to select various program icons and can store the adaptation information for each of these errors associated with the input format of program icons. 

In particular embodiments the adaptation information can be stored in association with a user identifier for the at least one user. In this embodiment device can be associated with more than one user for example by defining a user profile associated with each user. In this manner device can recognize which of the users is using device either automatically for example by sensing the user or by requiring each user to log in to their corresponding user profile before using device . As such device can recognize which user has made a particular input error and can store the corresponding adaptation information in association with the particular user.

The adaptation information can be stored in one or more locations. For example the adaptation information can be stored on device itself. Additionally or alternatively device can store the adaptation information on a computer server in communication with device .

At device detects a user interaction at a region. For example device can detect the user interaction as described above with respect to or in any other suitable manner.

At device determines the user s intended input value based on the user interaction detected in and the adaptation information. In particular embodiments determining the user s intended input value can include remapping input values to specified regions based on the adaptation information. For example and not limitation as described above with respect to device can generate adaptation information indicating that the last 20 times a user intended to touch the P key which is located for example at a coordinate identified as 30 45 in the x y plane of touch screen the user actually touched a coordinate identified as 32 48. Accordingly device can remap the P key by moving the region corresponding to where the P key is sensed by 2 coordinates in the x direction i.e. 32 30 and 3 coordinates in the y direction i.e. 48 45 . In this manner at device detects the user touches the coordinate 32 48 and in device can determine the user s intended input correctly as the letter P .

The remapping can change the coordinates of the P key as it is detected by device without changing the location of the P key as displayed on the touch screen . Alternatively the remapping can be performed by changing the location of the P key as displayed on the touch screen however this may possibly result in a visually assymetric or disorganized keyboard . illustrates the remapping of the areas where several keys of virtual keyboard are sensed. In this embodiment the keys would continue to be displayed as shown in but the regions corresponding to the keys would be remapped to the coordinates shown in phantom in .

In particular embodiments determining the user s intended input value can include updating a correction scheme for the input values based on the adaptation information. This can occur for example if device is not configured to remap the coordinates of the virtual keyboard . Instead a correction scheme can be implemented for example as a separate software component. As such and with reference to the example above device can update the correction scheme with the adaptation information indicating that the last 20 times a user intended to touch the P key the user actually touched the coordinate identified as 32 48. Accordingly at device detects the user touches coordinate 32 48 and at the correction scheme can recognize that the user s intended input was the P key and provide the user s intended input value to device .

Determining the user s intended input value for example by remapping input values or updating the correction scheme can be performed based on any of the properties of user interaction or other factors included in the adaptation information. For example if device determines that a particular error is made when the user is typing at or above a threshold speed the input values can be remapped or the correction scheme can be updated to correct an input only when the user is typing at or above the threshold speed. Similarly if device determines that a particular error is made when the user is typing in a landscape orientation the input values can be remapped or the correction scheme can be updated to correct an input only when the user is typing in the landscape orientation.

In particular embodiments device can retrieve adaptation information for the at least one user from a data store upon identification of the at least one user. As described above device can be associated with more than one user and as such when a particular user is identified to be using device adaptation information for the particular user can be retrieved. In this manner intended input values from each detected user interaction can be determined based on the adaptation information corresponding to the particular user.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. Storage may include removable or non removable i.e. fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and even if it is not provided through a website. Any computer based system that provides social networking functionality can be used in accordance with the disclosed subject matter even if it relies for example on e mail instant messaging or other form of peer to peer communications and any other technique for communicating between users. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

The disclosed subject matter has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the disclosed subject matter have been described as operating in connection with a social network system the disclosed subject matter can be used in connection with any communications facility that allows for communication of messages between users such as an email hosting site. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the disclosed subject matter be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the disclosed subject matter is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

