---

title: Merchandising items of topical interest
abstract: Various embodiments are described herein that provide one or more of a systems, methods, software, and data structures within an Internet marketplace context that are useful to promote products that may be associated with an event occurrence. Some embodiments further utilize collaborative filtering to augment event-based product recommendations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554641&OS=08554641&RS=08554641
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08554641
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120110
---
This Divisional application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 828 086 entitled MERCHANDISING ITEMS OF TOPICAL INTEREST filed Jul. 25 2007 granted as U.S. Pat. No. 7 979 321 on Jul. 12 2011 and to the divisional application thereof U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 118 847 entitled MERCHANDISING ITEMS OF TOPICAL INTEREST filed May 31 2011 which are both hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Today many goods and services are offered for sale on the Internet. Consumers are provided with unprecedented product access. Also sellers are provided with significantly increased market reach to consumers that were previously unreachable to them. However as a result of increased access where consumers in a conventional bricks and mortar shopping environment may have had only a single source from which to procure a single product to meet a certain need consumers are now confronted with multiple sources of multiple products to meet that same need. Further consumers commonly have access to products that may meet an unrealized need. Also with so many products being offered the task of finding a product of interest and learning about the availability of such products is becoming an evermore daunting task.

Various embodiments are described herein that provide one or more of a systems methods software and data structures within an Internet marketplace context that are useful to promote products that may be associated with an event occurrence. An event can be virtually anything that has happened or will happen. For example an event may be a news event such as a death of a political figure a sporting event such as an athlete surpassing a long standing record an upcoming or recently passed holiday or anniversary of a previous event and the like. An event may also be a product release such as the release of a highly anticipated book music recording mobile telephone and other products. Such events often cause a surge in public interest. For example Kobe Bryant scoring 50 points for the fourth time in the NBA season 2006 7 or the death of Anna Nicole Smith. Such an event often leads to a corresponding interest surge in products that are related in some fashion to the event in both product availability and product sales.

In some embodiments event based merchandising of products within an Internet marketplace involves one or more elements. The elements may include identifying events associating events with one or more of products product categories and product searches identifying one or more products to promote to a particular shopper and providing the one or more identified products to the shopper. Each of these elements will be described in greater detail below.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In typical embodiments the product retrieval module receives a request for products to display in a web page such as from a process that executes to build webpages. The product retrieval module may obtain products from the product database or through an event product merchandising service . The event product merchandising service may include one or more services to provide product listings for webpages based at least in part on identified event occurrences.

In some embodiments event occurrences may be manually specified through the manual event product identification module or automatically identified by the event identification module . However some embodiments not only include automatic event identification by the event identification module but also allow manual event identification through use of the manual event product identification module . Manual event identification may include receiving input creating relationships between an entity record in the entity database and event records of the event database . Manual event identification may also include inputting a product identifier and a product release date such as when the event is a release date of a highly anticipated product.

The event identification module may include heuristics to identify event occurrences in news stories or other data stored in the event database in view of data of an entity database . The entity database includes data for which events may be tied to or searched for by the heuristics of the event identification module . The data in the entity database may identify people such as celebrities places such as cities or parks or things such as books teams groups and organizations. The data in the entity database may also identify products which may be useful when the product is highly popular highly anticipated or when reviews are published.

The event database may include full news story text or abstracts or other data such as press releases blog postings product manuals or other textual documents or data that may include event data. The event database may exist within a computing environment of the other portions elements of the system . However the event database in some embodiments may be one or more websites from which event occurrences may be identified. The websites may be news websites or other websites that identify event occurrences. These websites may be retrieved and identified by heuristics of the event identification module in view of data stored in the entity database . When an event is identified a notification of the event may be stored in one or more of the entity database a second event database the product database or held by the event product merchandising services .

In some embodiments an event may also be associated with one or more queries. For example if a query is submitted by a prospective purchaser for mobile telephones a product release date event for a mobile telephone including an MP3 player may be associated with the query. This association may be to the exact text of anticipated queries or one or more key words that may be included in a query.

The event identification module may identify events based on default or customized event identification heuristics. This may include processing data in the event database such as a news story and removing all extraneous words leaving only nouns. Each unique noun may then be counted and the counts compared against entity data in the entity database . An event of interest may be identified in some embodiments based on a count of a particular noun from the entity database appearing in several news stories over a certain period. The count and the period may be configured in some embodiments to adjust the sensitivity of the heuristics in identifying events. The count and period may also be specified for each of one or more nouns in the entity database. In further embodiments nouns may be associated with categories and a category may include such sensitivity settings. As a result news stories including sports figures may have a higher sensitivity than celebrities.

Thus when the product retrieval module retrieves products through the event product merchandising service the event product merchandising service receives identified events from one or both of the event identification module and manual event product identification module . The event product merchandising service then searches for products related to such events such as performing a search of the product database as a function of a noun related to an identified event. Product search results are then forwarded back to the product retrieval module . In some embodiments the event product merchandising service may also provide one or more links to news stories associated with one or more events.

The period following the date of the event occurrence may be an administrative setting based on a particular product or product category the event is associated with. As a result one product or product category may be recommended a period longer or short than another product or product category having a different administratively set period. The period for recommendation of products or services may alternatively be an adaptive period learned by a system implementing the method according to any number of adaptive learning processes that are readily known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The period may also be a default period.

In some embodiments the period following the date of the event occurrence may be adaptive. For example if product recommendations are made for products associated with an event and those recommendations continue to yield a noteworthy success rate in prompting purchases or other actions the period may be automatically extended until a point where purchases or other actions fall off

In some embodiments associating the event occurrence with one or more products represented in the product database includes associating the event occurrence with at least one category of products represented in the product database. For example if the identified event is Kobe Bryant scoring 50 points in four consecutive basketball games for the Los Angeles Lakers the event may be associated with one or more product categories such as Los Angeles Lakers merchandise and Kobe Bryant merchandise. However the event may also or alternatively associated with one or more particular products such as Kobe Bryant authentic jerseys and Kobe Bryant rookie collectable card. An event may also be associated with a query including terms extracted from event descriptions or other event data such as associated entities or categories.

In some embodiments the watch rules may include data to feed one or more data processing algorithms. In some such embodiments the one or more algorithms may be derived from the Information Extraction branch of Information Retrieval and Natural Language Processing. This analysis may be further assisted by a database of tagged entities such as a list of celebrities with related topical categories or a list of periodic events.

In some embodiments receiving event data from a remote source includes executing a trawling process that retrieves web pages from one or more web sites. The trawling may be performed by a process of the type commonly referred to as a spider. The trawling process typically retrieves web pages including news stories or references thereto and applies the watch rules. In some embodiments when a watch rule is applied and an event is identified the trawling process provides notification of the event and a link to the retrieved webpage within which the event was identified. As a result when a product or product category is recommended as a function of the identified event a link to the source of the event identification may also be provided. Prospective purchasers may then receive not only product recommendations based on event occurrences but also find a link to a news story or other webpage providing greater detail about the event occurrence.

Collaborative filtering is a mechanism by which predictions may be made about the interests of individual entities such as prospective purchasers by collecting information from many entities. The underlying assumption of collaborative filtering is that those who have agreed will agree again. For example one application of collaborative filtering may make predictions of what music or other products product categories searches or other offerings an entity may be interested in based on information of previous entity actions such as purchases searches demographics and other entity transactions and information. These predictions are specific to the entity but such predictions are made using information collected from many entities. As a result information of products services searches and other information may be specifically tailored to an entity that are more likely to generate further entity activity such as purchases than non tailored information. In some instances the information may provide a recommendation of a product an entity may be interested in may not otherwise be aware of or even an alternate product that the entity may be interested in purchasing instead a product being viewed. In further instances the information may provide a search that is likely to net products of interest to the entity.

Thus identifying and ranking products or product categories the prospective purchaser is likely to be interested in utilizing collaborative filtering provides one or both of a set of products and product categories of likely interest. These sets may then be ranked or reranked in view of related events. As a result a set of recommendations tailored to the specific prospective purchaser are made in view of current events.

Some embodiments as illustrated in the user interface of may further include other recommendations derived from one or both of an event occurrence and identified interests. For example John Smith is interested in pro sports and Los Angeles. As a result identified events products or products related to identified events may be recommended in area . Thus John Smith receives recommendations of products related to both pro sports and Los Angeles.

Although the user interface of is illustrated as a webpage the same data may be placed in an email and sent to John Smith. Thus not only may the embodiments described here that recommend products to prospective purchasers based on identified events be provided when a user visits an Internet marketplace the events and recommendations may be pushed to prospective purchasers.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

