---

title: Multifunction receiver-on-chip for electronic warfare applications
abstract: What is provided is a receiver-on-a-chip comprising a monolithic integrated circuit that reduces the receiver to a cigarette-pack-sized assembly mountable directly at an antenna element, with a much-increased operational bandwidth and instantaneous bandwidth, increased dynamic range and with a two-order-of-magnitude decrease in size and weight. Moreover, because of the elimination of all of the I/O drivers and attendant circuitry, power consumption is reduced by two-thirds, whereas the mean time before failure is increased to 10,000 hours due to the robustness of the monolithic integrated circuit and use of fiber optics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08660671&OS=08660671&RS=08660671
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08660671
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120420
---
This is a divisional of patent application Ser. No. 12 386 681 filed Apr. 22 2009 and patent application Ser. No. 10 543 343 filed Jul. 22 2005 which issued as Pat. No. 7 542 812 and issued on Jun. 2 2009 entitled Multifunction Receiver On Chip For Electronic Warfare Applications the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein was made under Contract No. DAAB07 02 C K513 with the Government of the United States of America and may be manufactured and used by and for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention relates to receivers used in electronic warfare and more particularly to a miniaturized receiver on a chip placeable directly at an antenna element in which prior electronic warfare EW receiver modules are integrated monolithically into a single integrated circuit using ultra high speed transistors.

For many electronic warfare applications phased array antennas are used for beam forming or direction finding purposes in which an aircraft for instance is provided with an antenna array the outputs of the elements of which are coaxially cabled to an equipment bay on the aircraft where the signals are processed through a number of different receiver modules. These modules include low noise amplifiers analog to digital converters filters mixers IF stages amplifiers and processors that constitute a centralized receiver system that is complex heavy consumes an excessive amount of power and is expensive.

In addition to weighing in excess of 60 pounds the input output I O drivers of such a modular system can consume as much as 15 watts of power out of a 25 watt total with the power drain primarily residing in the interfaces between the modules. This is because the interfaces must employ drivers that consume an excessive amount of power. Moreover cabling between the modules and to antenna elements is heavy and leads to cable losses that result in power drain and decreased receiver sensitivity.

Power consumption and weight are indeed factors when one seeks to provide an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV such as the Predator with electronic warfare EW receiver capabilities. It will be appreciated that unmanned vehicles have limited fuel supplies or if powered by solar cells can only accommodate equipment having very limited power consumption. When the UAVs hover over an area sometimes for days weeks or months the longevity of the mission is critically dependent upon fuel consumption which is in turn directly related to power consumption of the avionics package. Moreover the ability to reduce the weight from the 60 pound modular system described above is critical because weight reduction translates to increased endurance. Size reduction is also a factor because present rack mounted modular EW systems occupy too much space to be incorporated into the UAV avionics package.

It will thus be appreciated that in high altitude long endurance UAVs the physical size of the avionics package is a problem. Not only does power consumption translate into endurance but the ability to do the signal processing associated with the EW receivers must be done in packages that are to be located on a platform that is ten times smaller than for instance the P3 reconnaissance aircraft.

In short if one were to be able to completely eliminate the modules and the extensive coaxial cabling between modules one could significantly reduce size weight and power consumption while at the same time reducing impedance mismatches that reduce sensitivity.

While one might be inclined to produce an EW receiver using multi chip modules or MCM technology it will be appreciated that the multi chip module approach also consumes a significant amount of power. While the multi chip module can shrink the size of the system to a certain extent one must address the I O interface power requirements which as mentioned above can result in 15 watts wasted power out of the 25 watt total requirement. Thus for instance if one were to make a modular receiver system having for instance one module that includes an analog to digital converter and a demultiplexer a second module that contains a low band pass filter a high band converter clock and local oscillator generation a digital automatic gain control coupled to an analog to digital converter and another demultiplexer all of which are coupled to a CMOS DSP processor which is in turn coupled to a serializer one would expend 5 watts of I O power associated with the first analog to digital converter. This power consumption is added to a 2 watt current consumption for the I O to the CMOS digital DSP. Next there is a loss of 4 watts of power for the output due to the I O associated with the demultiplexer that is associated with the low band and high band converters with another 2 watts associated with the I O to the CMOS DSP. Between the DSP and the serializer there is another 2 watts of lost power due to the I O drivers with another 1 watt of lost power associated with the demultiplexer ahead of the serializer.

While power consumption of a modular receiver utilizing MCM technology is indeed a problem there is also a requirement to improve on all of the characteristics of an MCM system to not only decrease power consumption for increasing endurance but also to increase the dynamic range provide improved instantaneous bandwidth increase the operating frequency bandwidth beyond the usual 2 GHz to 18 GHz bandwidth and increase the mean time before failure MTFB . Note further that one needs to be able to decrease the equipment size from the present size of 200 cubic inches down to something considerably more manageable.

Rather than using either the MCM approach or any other modular approach assuming for instance 5 modules each six inches square by using system on a chip SOC architecture and the new IBM silicon germanium transistor technology with switch speeds in excess of 100 GHz one can reduce the entire EW receiver to a package the size of 3 inches by 2 inches.

Moreover since the interconnections between the various circuits that are monolithically formed on the chip are on the order of microns in length rather than wires of an inch or more transmission line losses are eliminated along with the weight associated with the coaxial cable interconnects. Not only is the physical size reduced by an order of magnitude but also because of the monolithic integrated approach one completely eliminates the I O buffers between the circuits which significantly reduces the power consumption.

Even more significant is the fact that having achieved a receiver on a chip package size of 2 inches by 3 inches each receiver in and of itself can be placed adjacent an antenna element with downstream communication being accomplished through fiber optic cables such that weight concerns losses and impedance mismatches associated with coaxial cabling between the antenna elements and the processors are completely eliminated.

The ability to locate the EW receiver directly at the antenna element provides increased flexibility for the type of processing that can be achieved and greatly increases sensitivity by minimizing losses.

What makes possible the formation of such monolithic system on a chip circuits is the advancement in semiconductor technology by IBM that involves new silicon germanium techniques. Because of this new faster technology the resulting transistor speeds and densities make the system on a chip configurations possible.

For instance recent IBM developments provide FTX MAXes that relate to the toggling frequencies of the transistors well over 100 GHz as opposed to the present state of the art FTX MAXes of 20 to 30 GHz. What this means is that there is an order of 3 to 4 times improvement in the switch speed which translates into improved analog to digital converters that do not require as much down conversion as was heretofore thought required.

The result of being able to run the analog to digital converters at much higher rates increases the overall receiver bandwidth from the original 2 GHz to 18 GHz to 0.03 GHz to 18 GHz. Moreover the instantaneous bandwidth goes from 500 MHz to 2000 MHz with the dynamic range being improved from 50 dB to 60 dB. The size when compared to the 200 cubic inches for the modular units goes down to 7 cubic inches whereas a weight of ten pounds for MCM EW receivers goes down to 1 pound. Moreover the Mean Time Before Failure increases from 1 000 hours to 10 000 hours.

The overall impact of the use of a silicon germanium system on a chip approach reduces the number of multiple IF down conversion stages and not only eliminates the requirement of a separate RAIU plus a separate RF unit but also permits moving the analog to digital converter after the second local oscillator to the front end of the system. What this means is that there is a parts count reduction due to the ability to eliminate two local oscillators and the associated down conversions simply by being able to design a super high speed analog to digital converter. Also gone are the drivers between modules and the attendant power consumption.

Importantly the heavy coaxial cables used to interconnect the modules and indeed to connect the equipment bay to the phased array antenna elements are completely eliminated. Because the receiver has now been reduced to a size that can be conveniently placed at each of the antenna elements no coaxial cabling is required with its attendant losses and weight. The result is that one can do whatever signal processing is necessary directly at each of the antenna elements and connect the digital receiver outputs by fiber optic cables that are in essence lossless devices.

One therefore has gone from a centralized receiver system that is complex heavy power consumptive and expensive to a much lower cost more flexible system that can be placed at each antenna element. The result is that such a system can be easily deployed on UAVs and for instance can be used on ground sensors that need to be low power and very small because they are battery powered and must last for long periods of time after deployment.

Gone also are the high speed interfaces which are power consumptive with the subject receiver on a chip completely re capturing the 15 watts lost in multiple module systems. Thus the subject system is uniquely applicable to high altitude long endurance UAVs which may have to circle and loiter for weeks or months while performing persistent ISR or intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance.

As will be appreciated when one goes from a 60 pound equipment bay payload down to 1 pound endurance is optimized.

Moreover the subject system achieves added flexibility since each antenna element can now be provided with its own receiver and its own tuner. One can therefore do much more flexible digital beam forming with the multi function operation achievable by the subject receiver on a chip. As a result anything that had required analog signals can now be put efficiently digitized and put together into a single receiver channel. Moreover since one does not have to deal with the losses associated with cabling one achieves better receiver sensitivity.

It has been found that one can achieve an 11 dB increase in sensitivity by eliminating the coaxial cabling. And one can also achieve a bandwidth increase below 2 GHz. As mentioned above because of the higher speed analog to digital converter capability afforded by the new silicon germanium technology one can have a 10 GHz per second analog to digital converter as compared with the present 2 GHz analog to digital converters. The increased speed of the analog to digital converters directly translates to increased bandwidth and reduces the number of IF stages.

In summary what is provided is a receiver on a chip comprising a monolithic integrated circuit that reduces the receiver to a cigarette pack sized assembly mountable directly at an antenna element with a much increased operational bandwidth and instantaneous bandwidth increased dynamic range and with a two order of magnitude decrease in size and weight. Moreover because of the elimination of all of the I O drivers and attendant circuitry power consumption is reduced by two thirds whereas the mean time before failure is increased to 10 000 hours due to the robustness of the monolithic integrated circuit and use of fiber optics.

Referring to current modular digital EW receivers have a number of modules and respectively an RF converter module a module for the first half of an IF conversion section a second module of an IF conversion section an RF digitizer module and an RF digital processing module. These modules are cabled together in an electronics suite within an aircraft so as to provide the requisite digital receiver functions for surveillance intelligence gathering and oftentimes for direction finding and fire control. Typically each of these modules is 6 inches on a side so as to comprise at least 30 inches of rack space within the electronics suite of the aircraft.

As mentioned hereinbefore these modules are usually interconnected by coaxial cables as well as being connected by coaxial cable to various antenna elements in the antenna array usually embedded in the wing of an aircraft .

As mentioned hereinbefore the weight power consumption losses and mean time before failure problems need to be resolved not only to improve bandwidth and lower power consumption and weight but also to provide a package that is easily installed in a much smaller aircraft such as a UAV.

As can be seen by the picture of receiver it is possible to reduce all of modules to a single monolithic chip and to provide the chip in a housing that in one embodiment is only 3 inches by 2 inches. In so doing there is a total volume reduction of greater than an order of magnitude which offers significant performance improvement and enables insertion on high endurance UAVs.

As illustrated in a wing of an aircraft is provided with a phased antenna array in this case located at wingtip which includes for each element of the phased array a receiver that is of such small size that it can be co located with the antenna element. One of the important features of the subject invention is that by making the EW receiver so small and co locating it with an antenna element one can achieve an 11 dB increase in sensitivity because as will be described hereinafter any communication that is necessary between the receivers is accomplished through fiber optic cables which offer a 40 Gb s serial link.

The combination of the receiver adjacent each element allows side lobe and back lobe electronic warfare and electronic intelligence capabilities while at the same time resulting in dramatic reductions in size weight and recurring cost.

Referring to diagrammatically the array of antennas embedded in wing in one embodiment includes a number of antenna elements mounted to wing which enables multi beam multi function element level digital beam forming for the array thus to remove operational constraints and increases the degrees of freedom while enabling hyper concurrent and cross mission operation.

Referring to such miniaturized EW receivers have use not only in airborne applications but also in battery operated ground sensors such as illustrated at which are deployable by air dropping or physical placement and which include communications equipment that must stay on station for days months or years and not run down the on board batteries. Even if the sensors are provided with solar cells the amount of current draw must be minimized and the supplying of the subject receiver on a chip with its high speed silicon germanium technology provides the deployable sensors with affordable receivers that can be used for instance for ground surveillance and situational awareness or can be used for communication relays and to deploy electronic attack.

Referring now to the subject receiver on a chip employs a silicon germanium technology that not only reduces the parts count over a modular system but also results in increased bandwidth and other of the advantages noted above.

The feed for the subject receiver on a chip is a 30 MHz to 18 GHz RF input which is coupled to an RF pre select and attenuation or notch filter circuit which is off chip. The output of this circuit is amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA and is either switched between a low band pass filter or a mixer is used in a single down conversion stage with the mixer being driven by either 8 10 or 12 GHz local oscillators on line from a clock and or local oscillator . Either the low pass filtered output of LNA or the down converted output of a mixer is supplied by a switching circuit to an off chip IF filter bank which provides IF filtering either for the 2 4 GHz band or the 6 8 GHz band. What will be seen is that either there is no down conversion or there is only a single step of down conversion. This operation is made possible due to the high frequencies at which the analog to digital converters can be run due to the silicon germanium IBM technology. The output of the IF filter bank is applied to a variable gain amplifier VGA under the control of a digital automatic gain control circuit which as will be seen can be identical to mixer . This minimizes the number of different circuits that need to be fabricated.

Thus as an offshoot of the subject invention it will be appreciated that the same section of the monolithic circuit used for the mixer can be used without alteration as both an RF down converter using IBM SiGe 7 HP technology or a variable gain amplifier also using this same technology. In the down conversion mode the RF down converter has a measured gain of 6.7 dB with an 11.2 dB noise figure NF and a 2 GHz bandwidth.

As a variable gain amplifier the same technology has a bandwidth from DC to 10 GHz with a 24 to 14.5 dB gain and a 54 dB spur free dynamic range SFDR .

It will be noted that the low noise amplifier likewise utilizes IBM SiGe 7 HP technology with a measured 21 GHz bandwidth and a 4.6 to 5.8 dB NF.

It is noted that the output of the variable gain amplifier is applied to an analog to digital converter which has as one of its inputs a 10 Gsps clock. The output of the analog to digital converter is applied to a demultiplexer and thence to a CMOS digital signal processor DSP which has standard interfaces to enable efficient application development. One output of the CMOS DSP controls the digital analog gain control circuit over line whereas a signal over line controls the RF pre select attenuate notch circuit .

As illustrated the output of the CMOS DSP is applied to a serializer the output of which is 80 GPBS serialized output data which can be transmitted over a fiber optic link to a digital processor.

Note that analog to digital converter the CMOS DSP and the serializer can be implemented by an analog to digital converter ADC serializer using IBM SiGe 7 HP technology with a 10 Gsps 4 bit capability a 50 dB Spurious Free Dynamic Range SFDR with the serializer being a 40 Gbps serializer.

Note that an analog to digital converter is coupled to the RF pre select attenuate and notch unit which is used to detect interference over a full spectrum and provides a steerable notch filter function. This analog to digital converter is implemented in one embodiment with a silicon germanium 8 HP technology and has a 20 Gsps 3 bit characteristic with a 26 dB SFDR. Note that the output of this analog to digital converter is demultiplexed at and is applied to the CMOS DSP .

What will be appreciated is that the silicon germanium high speed technology is used in all components namely the LNA the low noise amplifier the RF down converter the variable gain amplifier both analog to digital converters and for the serializer with the CMOS DSP being the only element that employs CMOS technology.

As illustrated by reference character the entire monolithically formed receiver on a chip circuit may take the miniaturized form shown which results in an IBM silicon germanium 8 HP unit with 10 Gsps at 6 bits a 60 dB SFDR and can accommodate a CMOS DSP application having up to 1000 gates with a 40 GPS serializer being used to provide a data output to any follow on digital processors that may be used in the EW application.

The single chip receiver solution depicted in completely supplants an MCM embodiment of an EW receiver that as discussed does not satisfy the need for high integration levels. In the subject system and referring to the same RF pre select attenuation notch unit feeds an indium phosphide heterojunction bipolar transistor HBT analog to digital converter coupled to a 64 1 demultiplexer as illustrated. These two units correspond to a module as illustrated.

The outputs of unit are likewise supplied to a low band pass unit and a high band converter the outputs of which are switched at to the aforementioned IF filter bank with the high band converter being provided with a clock and local oscillator generator having an output coupled to an analog to digital converter with a digital automatic gain control coupled to a variable gain amplifier . The output of analog to digital converter is coupled to a 16 1 demultiplexing unit .

The demultiplexing units and provide respectively 128 outputs at 625 MHz with 256 pads of LVDS but with a current draw of 5 watts for the I O that this driver represents.

For demultiplexer there are 96 outputs at 625 MHz with 192 pads LVDS but with a current draw of 4 watts of I O such that the combined current draw for these two demultiplexers is 7 watts. The I O for a CMOS DSP to which these two demultiplexers are coupled involves an interface for demultiplexer having 128 inputs at 625 MHz 256 pads LVDS which has an associated current draw of 2 watts of I O. On the other hand the output from demultiplexer when interfaced to CMOS DSP having 96 inputs at 625 MHz and 192 pads LVDS has an associated current draw of 2 watts. At this point one has expended 13 watts in the I O process due to the drivers and demultiplexers associated with the interfacing of the modules.

The output of the CMOS DSP is applied to a serializer in a module that includes an additional demultiplexer . It is noted that the CMOS DSP output has a 128 I O at 625 MHz with 256 pads LVDS and has a current drain of 2 watts of I O bringing the total current draw of this modular system up to 15 watts. Note that the internal demultiplexer in module which offers a 14 1 demultiplex capability draws 1 watt which in either the subject single chip receiver on a chip or the MCM version thereof is necessary.

What can be seen from the MCM version described above is that due to the interfacing of the various modules of the MCM receiver one wastes approximately 15 watts of the total 25 watt power consumption which wasted power is recouped by using the subject single chip receiver.

Referring to the difference between the standard modular approach and the subject system is readily apparent.

In the prior art electronics array is serially coupled to antenna elements to drive a low noise amplifier through a silicon oxide cable coupled to a RAIU which is switched to the output of the cable via switching circuit . The output of switch is filtered at and is applied to a down conversion mixer supplied with the output of a first local oscillator . The down converted output is filtered at and is amplified at whereupon it is applied via a cable to a second stage down converter . This down converter has its own switching circuit coupled to a filter and to a mixer that serves as a down converter with the mixer being supplied with a second local oscillator signal over line . The output of the mixer is applied to a filter and thence to an amplifier the output of which is applied to an analog to digital converter coupled thence to a DSP .

Rather than using the two stages of down conversion associated with the MCM version of the EW receiver and due to the availability of higher speed analog to digital converters analog to digital converter with improved technology is used in the single chip receiver on a chip IC version of an EW receiver. Each IC is coupled to its own individual antenna element the outputs of which are supplied to fiber optic drivers which drive fiber optic cables . These fiber optic cables are provided to an RF unit which has a fiber optic receiver and switching unit the output of which is applied to a digital signal processor .

What will be seen in this comparison is that a large number of individual modules associated with prior art EW receivers can be eliminated along with cabling between the modules due to the use of super high speed silicon germanium architectures which results in the advantages listed in the Table of .

Referring now to it can be seen that the operating frequency is extended down to 0.3 GHz whereas the instantaneous bandwidth goes from 800 MHz to 2 000 MHz with the dynamic range increased from 50 dB to 60 dB. Most importantly the size is reduced from 200 cubic inches to 7 cubic inches with a rate reduction over the MCM version of ten pounds to one pound and an MTFB going from 1 000 hours to 10 000 hours.

More specifically the present invention uses IBM s latest 7 HP and 8 HP SiGe HBT foundry process in which an A D converter 4 bits 10 GHz is used which is monolithically integrated with a 40 GB s serial link. Other building blocks are also developed including a variable gain amplifier and an LNA.

The frequency plan uses dual IF frequencies of 2 4 GHz and 6 8 GHz. Those IF frequencies map into the first and second Nyquist bands of the ADC operating at 10 Gsps. These bands correspond to 2 of the RF frequency bands that are needed so those bands can be direct sampled with maximum spur free dynamic range. For other frequency hands the dual IF frequencies allows us to use 1 LO Frequency to get two RF bands simply by selecting the appropriate IF alias band frequency. This reduces the number of VCO frequencies that will be required to obtain complete band coverage. The single conversion also minimizes the design complexity associated with off chip interfaces that are needed for double conversion.

SiGe technology provides a revolutionary benefit in wideband systems as it enables large amount of digital processing to be done on chip without the latency and power dissipation that is incurred in traditional multi chip system implementations.

The wideband amplifier is implemented using a distributed amplifier topology which offers high gain wide bandwidth and low noise figure. Each stage of the distributed amplifier is implemented as common emitter common base amplifier. For all the stages of distributed amplifier an emitter degeneration resistor is included to reduce the low frequency gain. A shunt capacitor is attached to the emitter to eliminate the gain reduction due to the degeneration resistors at high frequency.

Referring now to what is shown is a photograph of the fabricated LNA chip. Connection is a single ended input referenced to multiple ground connections . Five amplifier gain stages amplify the signal coupled off of the input and sum their respective outputs together in a spatially distributed fashion. The output is then sent off of the chip at the single ended port which is also referenced to the ground connections . The remaining connections are connected together on chip and externally connected to the voltage bias supply V.

DC biasing current and the number of stages in the LNA significantly affects the gain and noise performances. An increase in number of stages and biasing current will increase both gain and noise figure and vice versa. The optimum number of stages and single stage collector biasing current is found to be five stages and 4 mA respectively. High frequency measurement of the LNA is carried out using on wafer short open load and thru SOLT calibration with an HP8510C vector network analyzer. The noise figure of the LNA is measured from 1 to 18 GHz using an HP 8971C noise figure meter an ATN tuner and noise measurement software. The S parameter and noise figure measurement results are shown in . The 2 18 GHz LNA has a 15 dB gain 5 dB noise figure and VSWR better than 2.5 1 at both input and output ports. Two tone third order intercept point is also measured using a microwave source sweeper at 18.0 GHz with 1 MHz frequency spacing. The measurement showed that the wideband LNA has an OIP3 of 15.5 dBm. In the next phase the noise figure is improved to 3 dB using the 8 HP process.

The primary application of the VGA is automatic gain control in the IF path. But the high linearity wide range in gain control and broad bandwidth also lends this circuit well to analog multipliers down converters and up converters.

Silicon germanium SiGe technology offers considerable advantages over other semiconductor technologies in this VGA application. SiGe HBTs have 2 3 greater Ft than CMOS enabling higher frequency broader bandwidth circuits. When using the IBM 8 HP technology the bipolar transistor devices will exhibit Ft s of 220 GHz while a leading 0.13 um RF CMOS process has an Ft of only 80 GHz. SiGe does not offer any noise figure advantages in LNA designs but the high Ft allows large improvements in bandwidth.

The 1 f noise in SiGe HBT devices is considerably lower than CMOS. This allows much lower phase noise VCOs which can be used for on chip clock sources for A D converters. The IBM7 HP 1 f corner is 

The VGA is based on a Gilbert cell topology utilizing a Cherry Hooper bandwidth enhancement technique. Feedback and emitter degeneration are used to enhance linearity. shows the micrograph of the IC and shows a simplified schematic of the VGA core.

Referring now to it will be appreciated that the VGA core is in essence a circuit to allow one to create and measure the interface parameters for the individual parts of the overall system one is creating. By being able to measure the individual parts one can then adjust how the interfaces go together when one assembles the larger circuit.

VGA core has a number of connection points that are in the form of connectors. At the left hand side of the circuit are RF in connection points which are surrounded by ground connectors . The RF in connection points are surrounded by a number of grounds to enhance the isolation of signals between the input output and LO or gain controls.

The gain LO in connectors are illustrated at . These connectors are similarly surrounded by grounds . Note that there are a number of spare connectors that surround gain LO inputs .

As illustrated at the right hand side of the circuit connectors correspond to the RF IF out signal connections again similarly surrounded by ground connectors .

At the bottom of this circuit are power connectors attendant grounds and spares . Note that the actual active circuit is illustrated at with the other elements being power conditioning circuits.

Referring now to the circuit diagram corresponding to circuit of assumes that it has a signal input corresponding to inputs of here illustrated at . These inputs go to the bases of the transistors of a transconduction input section that includes NPN transistors and . Here the input signals are applied to the bases of these transistors. This transconduction input section converts a voltage to a high impedance current output which is applied to a four quadrant gain control section and more particularly to the emitters of transistors and as well as to the emitters of back to back transistors and .

The gain LO inputs at are control signals that are applied at and to respective bases of transistors and . This section creates a current steering function that steers the differential current coming from the transconductance section as a function of the voltage input on the inputs and . That differential current is then applied to a transimpedance output section and more particularly to the bases of NPN transistors and . These two transistors form the transimpedance function of this circuit which converts the current output from the gain control section that is at a high impedance into a low impedance input that drives the voltage output at terminals and .

The top and bottom of the circuit act as current generation sources for biasing the various impedance and gain control sections of the rest of the circuit. The circuit elements for these biasing circuits include transistors and along with transistor . In short the aforementioned circuitry generates the current that biases the circuit.

In operation the voltage input signal is applied to differential input ports P and P. The gain control section multiplies the input signal by the gain voltage on differential ports P and P. The signal passing through the gain control section is a current signal with minimal voltage swing. This reduces the impact of parasitic capacitances and maximizes bandwidth. The current signal is converted back to voltage in the upper transimpedance section. The low input impedance ensures small voltage swings. This technique of impedance mismatching where a low input impedance is driven by a high output impedance current source enhances bandwidth.

For testing the 1.28 2.00 mm chip was bonded to an alumina substrate. DC power and control signals were wire bonded to the chip while the high speed ports used 40 GHz probe heads. External baluns where used to interface the single ended test equipment signals to the differential ports of the VGA.

The VGA was also tested as a down converting mixer. Even though this SoC building block was not optimized for this purpose it performed very well with a 26 GHz RF signal 19 GHz LO signal with a 7 GHz IF output. Note the VGA presented here represents the baseline for the mixer cell.

A family of gain vs. frequency curve measurements is given in . This measurement was performed by wafer probing the chip on a substrate. The smooth red lines are simulation result while the different colored lines are 10 dB gain steps. Note that the gain is very flat at any gain setting a highly desirable feature of a VGA. The gain also changes in 10 dB steps with 10 dB commanded gain steps. There are a couple of slight deviations from simulation however.

One of the key issues in a high speed ADC is the problem of transferring large amounts of generated digital data from the ADC to the processing unit. In many applications ADC and the processing unit are not co located. Transferring many lines of data in parallel is costly unreliable and prone to noise and electrical crosstalk. In the subject invention a novel approach is taken by using the existing fiber optic transceiver technology to multiplex the digital data into a higher rate stream and transferring it via a single fiber link. The main components of this chip are a 10 Gsps ADC and a 40 Gbps serializer. Additional blocks such as digitally generated dither are included on the chip to boost the performance of the ADC.

The 4 Bit 10 Gsps flash ADC was fabricated in IBM 7 HP SiGe technology. The ADC shows 45 dB of Spurious Free Dynamic Range. Digital output of the converter is multiplexed up into a single 40 Gbps stream. Internal dithering allows for improved spur performance. The converter uses a new wideband Track Hold circuit and incorporates a novel layout in the quantizer section for speed improvement. shows the top level block diagram of the ADC Serializer.

As can be seen in the ADC Serializer here illustrated at includes a timing control circuit a clock select circuit a clock multiplier unit CMU all of which are used in controlling an A D 4 bit analog to digital converter coupled to a demultiplexer in turn coupled to a 16 bit parallel scrambler pseudo random write sequencer in turn coupled to a 16 1 multiplexing circuit . The output of multiplexing circuit is amplified at to provide a 40 GHz serial bit stream of data at outputs .

At the bottom of this figure additional control signals come in at connectors which are applied respectively to a parallel pseudo random write sequence generator coupled to a 4 bit digital to analog converter in turn coupled to a low pass filter having its outputs amplified at and added to the inputs to analog to digital converter .

Note that what constitutes the input signal at is the conditioned RF signal from the variable gain amplifier mixer described in .

Note also that a control signal on terminal is used to enable the digital output on the serial data link . Moreover a 4 bit digital to analog converter is coupled to the output of analog to digital converter controlled by a signal at with the output of digital to analog converter constituting a digital reproduction of the input signal that can then be used as an output transponder response. This output is available at .

It will be appreciated that the inputs at to timing and control unit are detail controls for the RF conversion and data formats that will be used within the circuits in addition to threshold control signals for determining response levels.

Also note that inputs to CMU are used for inputting a reference clock signal for the internal clock generating function of the system as well as the specific controls for the particular frequency of the sample clock that will be generated.

It will also be noted that outputs constitute test outputs to verify that the internal clock generator function is working properly.

In operation a dither generation circuit adds a controllable lowpass dither to the input of the ADC. This dither helps reduce spurs in the frequency band of interest. The dither generation circuit consists of a 4 bit pseudo random write sequence generator a 4 bit digital to analog converter and a lowpass filter.

After the encoding section the 4 Bit binary code with data rate of 10 Gbps is fed to a demultiplexer. This demultiplexer reduces the data rate down to 2.5 Gbps suitable for the scrambler section. The output of the scrambler section drives a 16 1 multiplexer. This multiplexer uses a quadrature 20 GHz clock to generate a full 40 Gbps data output. The 20 GHz clock is generated by an internal clock management unit CMU which accepts an external reference frequency of 625 MHz. The main challenge in the final multiplexer driver is the quality of the eye diagram and a good output return loss. These issues have been addressed by various circuit and layout techniques. The output 40 Gbps stream has 200 fsec rms jitter and 800 mVpp differential swing. An on chip DAC is included to aid in characterizing the ADC performance.

A potential architecture enhancement to the subject receiver on a chip includes the addition of a parallel receive path which monitors a very wide bandwidth so as to maximize the probability of intercept of high priority threats. A 3 Bit 20 Gsps ADC is the critical component of the design providing up to 8 GHz of observable bandwidth. This part achieves Spur Free Dynamic Range of 22 dB in the first Nyquist zone and SFDR of 16 dB in the second Nyquist zone. The converter uses a new wideband Track Hold circuit and incorporates a novel layout in the quantizer section for speed improvement. Power consumption of the ADC core is 0.6 W and total power consumption of the chip including the 50 Ohms CML drivers is 3 W. The IBM SiGe 8T process was used. Note that it is possible to increase the speed of this ADC to over 40 GSPs.

The output of analog to digital converter is applied to a demultiplexing circuit and also to a digital to analog converter .

Buffers and are respectively coupled to the outputs of demultiplexer a divide by eight circuit and a digital to analog converter to provide a digital data stream with clocking at least insofar as the outputs of buffers and . The output of buffer constitutes an analog RF output used for a transmit jamming waveform.

In operation the differential input is fed to an input buffer that drives the analog to digital converter section. The analog to digital converter consists of Track Hold circuit quantizer section bubble correction circuitry and binary encoding. One of the critical sections of a high speed analog to digital converter is the Track Hold T H section. In this design a T H circuit with over 65 dB SFDR is implemented. The T H uses two sets of current switches Main current switches function as in conventional track and hold circuits. Additional helping current switches allow optimization of switching speed while providing proper reverse biasing during the hold mode time.

After the encoding section the 3 Bit binary code with data rate of 20 Gbps feeds two sections first the Internal DAC and second the Demultiplexer. Using a high speed DAC to convert the digital data to analog waveform is a very convenient way of testing and characterizing the key features of the ADC. For 3 Bit operation the DAC linearity and speed are good enough not to degrade the observed ADC performance.

The Demultiplexer section is utilized to reduce the data rate of the 3 Bit binary code from 20 Gbps to 2.5 Gbps. This requires demultiplexing by a factor of 8 resulting in 24 lines of data at 2.5 Gbps. A synchronous clock at 2.5 GHz is also provided to facilitate external data acquisition.

Throughout the design special attention has been paid to the timing between different blocks. To reduce aperture jitter buffers and gain blocks are included in the clock section to make the clock as square as possible. The power supply for the output drivers is chosen to be 1.8v to facilitate easy interface with CMOS chips.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a novel way to architect new Electronic Warfare systems has been described. An LNA VGA and an integrated ADC Serializer are combined and all worked to the program specifications. The IBM SiGe BiCMOS process provides high RF performance using HBTs along with high levels of digital integration using CMOS. This is essential for wideband circuits where transferring signals from chip to chip is costly in terms of power and I O and reliability.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

