---

title: System and method for verification, authentication, and notification of transactions
abstract: A system and method are provided for verifying, authenticating, and providing notification of a transaction such as a commercial or financial transaction, with and/or to at least one party identified as engaging in the transaction and/or identified as having a potential interest in the transaction or type of transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08589271&OS=08589271&RS=08589271
owner: 
number: 08589271
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 821 469 filed Jun. 23 2010 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 354 609 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 904 360 filed Jan. 30 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional No. 60 354 275 filed Feb. 4 2002 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention relates to fraud prevention and fraud early warning notifications for transactions in particular remote and or electronic transactions such as e commerce and m commerce transactions wherein it is desirable to authenticate and verify one or more parties identities and intentions before the transaction is concluded and or to notify one or more parties of the occurrence of the transaction.

In a transaction in which security is a concern such as an electronically conducted transaction involving a funds transfer or a purchase or payment there are three basic questions which must be satisfied 

Regarding question 1 the payments industry has devoted considerable attention to methods and systems designed to a verify the identity of a purchaser b assess the risk of any given transaction and c take follow on action in high risk cases either by subsequently inquiring of the payer whether the transaction was proper or by denying funds or credit at the time of the transaction subject to later manual contact with the payer.

For more complex or higher value transactions per question 2 a buyer may be subject to a set of audit and control procedures designed to limit his her purchasing authority. In most consumer purchasing cases the buyer and authority holder are usually the same person. In many organizational purchasing situations the buyer s and authority holder s are not the same. The payments industry has one primary tool for limiting purchasing authority which is the spending limit or credit limit associated with the buyer s account. Attempted solutions to question 1 also help address question 2 since verifying identity helps address cases wherein a buyer is suborning the purchasing authority of another party by use of a stolen credit card number or other private information.

As regards question 3 the most relatively secure environment for purchase transactions remains a merchant s store in which a buyer and seller can interact face to face multiple forms of identification can be reviewed and the opportunities for theft of private information are generally limited. At the other extreme are telephone mail and electronic commerce in which the buyer is represented merely by his her account information as supplied by phone on a mailed form or by data entry via a computer or other electronic device. Here the opportunities for fraud and the theft of private information are relatively high. Further there is a prevailing public perception that electronic purchasing environments for example virtual storefronts or Internet auctions are inherently insecure in regard to the transmission and or storage of private information.

The above factors are reflected in the relative discount rate price charged to merchants by credit card processors for in store transactions vs. card not present transactions for example. Typically merchants pay 60 more per sales dollar in a card not present transaction than when a credit card is physically presented for swiping.

These differences in risk also apply when accounts themselves are opened closed and modified remotely as via mail telephone wire or other electronic means.

Current transaction verification systems and methods such as for credit debit and purchase card purchases and payments Automated Teller Machine ATM interactions e ticket redemption and the like may be grouped into four broad categories 1 physical identification of the purchasing party or of a difficult to mimic characteristic of the purchasing party such as by signature comparison or biometric scanning 2 data entry of passwords or other identification codes such as the Personal Identification Number PIN codes used with ATMs and calling cards 3 validation of embedded digital authenticating information such as is found in smart cards and 4 verifying private knowledge presumed known only to the account holder such as the account holder s billing address or Social Security Number SSN prior to approving a transaction including opening closing and modifying an account. A fifth category devoted to limiting the exposure of sensitive private information such as credit card numbers to insecure or weakly secure environments subject to high levels of electronic theft or hacking such as the Internet is the substitution of dummy information for the actual private information which dummy information is reconciled with the actual private information after its receipt by the payment processing organization.

Additional systems and methods have been employed by credit reporting agencies which agencies already monitor the status of individuals credit accounts. Such organizations may offer their customers regular monthly communications by mail or electronic mail identifying new accounts established in the customer s name or with the customer s federal tax identification number since the last such communication.

Especially in categories 2 3 and 4 above transaction approval by a bank or other merchant processing or payment processing organization or network is often coupled with an automated risk detection processes and human follow up as when a credit card issuer s risk assessment system determines that an unexpectedly large out of state purchase is high risk for a given account holder and then provides that information to a customer service representative who may call the account holder s telephone to attempt to confirm the transaction s validity typically after the fact or to leave a message for the account holder that the card account is suspended pending the account holder s reply. It is often the case that the account holder s ability to judge what constitutes a fraudulent transaction conducted in his her name considerably exceeds that of said risk assessment system and customer service representative. Despite this judgment gap today s account holders have at best only after the fact means available to them from their financial institutions or from merchants to audit transactions occurring in their name including the opening closing and modification of accounts or at the time means which involve significant new technologies and new processes to implement learn and use. In some cases the burden of implementing learning and using falls on the merchant or other provider of goods services or funds as well as the account holder.

Merchants subjected to fraudulent transactions are informed after the fact as well when the true account holder disputes a transaction with his her payments organization. In the case of credit card transactions the merchant is then charged back for the value of the disputed transaction and may also be charged a dispute investigation fee resulting in a loss of profits and goods.

Additional research and development in the payments industry has focused on adding encrypted identifying codes or digital certificates to credit cards via an embedded microprocessor as in smart cards or via software on a personal computer e wallets and on physically printing unique numeric identification numbers or numeric passwords such as CVV2 CVC2 CID codes on credit cards. Said codes are a relatively recent security feature for use in card not present transactions and now appear on for example Visa MasterCard American Express and Discover cards. As of this writing these codes are comprised of a three or four digit number which provides a cryptographic check of the information embossed on the card called CVV2 Visa 3 digit CVC2 MasterCard 3 digit and CID American Express 4 digit and Discover 3 digit . These code values help validate two things a the customer has the physical credit card in his her possession and b the card account is legitimate. CVV2 CVC2 CID data are printed only on the card they are not contained in the magnetic stripe information per se nor do they appear on sales receipts or statements. The use of these codes attempts to make it more difficult for a person who has stolen a credit card number but not the actual card to enter into fraudulent transactions provided the other parry or parties to such transactions have also invested in the requisite changes to their systems and processes to support the use of these codes.

The prior art attempts with mixed results to solve the common problem of how to authenticate and verify a transaction such as purchase funds transfer account opening or closing or modification etc particularly when conducted remotely or electronically how to authenticate and verify the relevant party or parties and how to provide the earliest possible warning of fraud with a high degree of accuracy and completeness and near zero delay.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 182 894 to Hackett describes systems and methods to use CVV2 CVC2 CID values in lieu of PIN codes to verify that a consumer engaged in a point of sale POS transaction possesses the transaction card at the time of purchase and or is the true card owner. The CVV2 CVC2 CID information is provided to the POS system as an additional authenticating datum and if said datum matches what is stored in the relevant authorization system for the applicable card account number and authorizing parameters are satisfied authorization proceeds. If not authorization is denied. Such systems and methods do not protect against card theft or hacking should such CVV2 CVC2 CID data flow from the consumer to the merchant or card processor electronically or are stored on an intermediate system because they authenticate only that certain data from the physical card match data stored in the authorization system without authenticating the identity of the card holder user and without verifying the intentions of the true card owner or other co authorizing party if different . Further they do not provide the advantage of notification of the true card owner or other co authorizing or auditing parties of the occurrence of a transaction and in particular a high risk transaction. Finally such systems and methods also fail to provide for any additional automated data gathering authentication and verification for and by the party regarding the opening closing or modification of an account remotely.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 727 163 to Flews describes a system and method for concluding a transaction by telephone that was initiated over the Internet. The purchaser dials a special telephone number associated with the transaction and provides his her credit card number in full by dialing it on his her touch tone keypad that is using DTMT tones . Such a system and method have the advantage of partially isolating private payment information across two different communication links but do not address the problem of notification or authentication of the legitimate account holders or other parties having a potential interest in the transaction nor verification of the intent and approval of said legitimate account holders or other parties having approval authority for the transaction. Instead they provide assurance solely to the purchaser that his her private financial information need not be communicated in full through a network perceived to be insecure that is through the Internet . Such a system and method which require purchasers to take additional proactive steps to complete remote transactions have had limited adoption by consumers and merchants due to the complexity they add to all affected transactions. This system and method are further limited to collecting payment data such as a credit card number for processing by the merchant s point of sale or ordering system under the purchasing party s control. They do not provide for any additional data gathering authentication and verification for and by the party attempting to collect payment or open close or modify an account remotely nor for and by any third party whose approval is normally required to conclude the transaction.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 324 526 to D Agostino describes a system and method for providing a transaction code supplied case by case by the purchaser s financial institution in lieu of a credit card number for a purchase transaction. As has been noted systems and methods based on dummy transaction or account number codes have had limited consumer acceptance because of the complexity to set up and use them. Such systems and methods attempt to address only the security of the purchaser s account information by eliminating exposure thereof to a third party over a network perceived to be insecure that is over the Internet . Nor do such systems and methods provide for any additional data gathering authentication and verification for and by the party attempting to collect payment or open close or modify an account remotely nor for and by any third party whose approval is normally required to conclude the transaction.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 270 011 to Gottfried describes a system and method for coupling a fingerprint recognition device to a credit card scanner. As has been noted systems and methods of this type have extremely narrow application because of the need for the affected parties physical presence the associated cost of implementation and on going support and general public concerns over personal privacy when biometric devices are employed. Systems and methods of this type attempt to address only authentication of a purchaser s identity and ignore notification of a party or parties who may be subject to identity fraud or fraudulent transactions.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 341 724 to Campisano describes a system and method for using the telephone number of a credit card owner plus a PIN code as an alias for the actual card number in a credit card transaction. This system and method replace the account number with another sequence of digits which is not printed or encoded on the credit card itself. Systems and methods of this type are a variation on the concept of a dummy account number per U.S. Pat. No. 6 324 526 to D Agostino and provide the benefit of allowing a purchaser to make a credit card purchase without having to remember his her card number. However such systems and methods do not provide protection against the use of stolen account information nor against the use of stolen dummy account information such as said telephone number and PIN. They further require credit card users to learn a new process for making credit card purchases and require system and rule changes by merchants to allow the purchaser s telephone number and PIN to be used in lieu of a card account number. For debit card transactions the purchasers would further have to supply two PIN values one for the debit card account the other for encryption purposes. Nor do such systems and methods provide for any additional data gathering authentication and verification for and by the party attempting to collect payment or open close or modify an account remotely nor for and by any third party whose approval is normally required to conclude the transaction.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 023 682 to Checchio describes a system and method for communicating a credit card number to a payment authorizing computer system from a point of sale credit card terminal using encryption where the key is a personal identification code PIC belonging to the card owner and then verifying that the personal identification code matches that stored in the payment authorizing computer system s memory. This system and method introduce the advantage of using personal information such as a PIN code to verify a card user s identity but also require changes to payment authorization systems and merchant s order taking or payment processing systems to implement further require the purchaser to supply his her personal identification code to the merchant and have utility only at a physical point of sale that is in a non remote transaction. Because the PIC is communicated through the same process and media as the transaction itself said personal identification code particularly for e commerce transactions is vulnerable to theft via hacking of the merchant s systems or interception of the merchant s communications to the payment processing bank or applicable credit card processing network. Such systems and methods also fail to provide for any additional data gathering authentication and verification for and by any third party whose approval is normally required to conclude the transaction.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 683 to Jalili describes a method for customers to order goods from merchants on one network such as the Internet and then complete the purchase via a second network such as the telephone network using Caller ID service or a call back to check the customer s telephone number as a form of proof of the customer s identity and involving an independent processing center that receives the customer s financial information over the second network in advance and stores it for future reference The merchant uses the second network to deliver transaction details and the customer s ID to the processing center which then uses the second network to receive or initiate contact from to to the customer to check his her identity and his her purchase intentions. Said method revises the method described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 727 163 to Bezos by moving responsibility for the exchange of the customer s financial information from between the customer and merchant over a second network at the time of the transaction as per Bezos to between the customer and processing center over a second network in advance of the transaction. In Jalili the processing center also performs the step of debiting and crediting the accounts of the customer and merchant respectively. Therefore the utility of this method is limited to cases wherein both a purchaser and a merchant are independently willing and able to establish an advance relationship with exchange private information such as account information for the purchaser and merchant processing information for the merchant with and allow debiting crediting of their accounts by such a processing center prior to entering into a purchase transaction between themselves. The method is also limited to purchases and particularly to purchases involving a single customer and a single merchant. The need for a preparatory process occurring over the second network the need to use the second network to perform all steps to prepare and conclude a transaction other than the step of the customer s placing of his her order and the need to establish a processing center also limit the utility of this method. Because the purchaser does not actually supply his her payment information to the merchant the method further creates an opportunity for fraud perpetrated within processing center stemming from its unique position of trust between the two other parties. If however the processing center is not independent of the merchant then any utility derived from the separation of the processing center from the merchant such as the assurance to the customer that his her private account information need never be transmitted directly to the merchant is lost. The method also adds the complication of the merchant having to provide a new and additional or alternative form of customer identification information to the processing center in order to receive a customer s payment. The method also fails to provide for any additional automated data gathering authentication and verification for and by a party regarding non purchase transactions such as the opening closing or modification of an account remotely nor for and by any third party whose approval is normally required to conclude a purchase transaction. The method also fails to address purchases or non purchase transactions initiated other than via a network. Lastly the method requires a new sort of account to be established namely the customer s registration with the processing center.

Systems and methods of physical recognition Such systems and methods require deployment training and support of a new purchaser and or merchant transaction processing infrastructure on a wide scale such as deployment of biometric scanners and related interfaces to payment systems and require the physical presence of purchaser to interact with that infrastructure to complete a transaction. This solution is therefore highly limited in the scope of its application.

Systems and methods using passwords and ID codes Generally effective for ATM and debit card transactions such systems and methods are not used widely for credit card transactions. Passwords and codes such as PIN codes remain subject to theft as by Internet hacking card skimming identity theft etc. . Once a password or ID code is compromised no further safeguards are possible and entirely new customer accounts must be created. Passwords and ID codes are not commonly used supported and enforced by merchants for credit card purchases.

Systems and methods using CVV2 CVC2 CID codes Systems and methods utilizing such codes are presently limited to credit card accounts only do not protect against the loss or theft such as by hacking of credit or debit and credit cards or card account numbers along with such codes and do not prevent the fraudulent creation or subsequent modification of an account.

Systems and methods using verification of private knowledge Such systems and methods are vulnerable to theft of private information via hacking and identity theft. This is particularly troublesome internationally where the most common type of private knowledge checking in the U.S. for credit card transactions namely an account s billing addresses is rarely possible today abroad.

Systems and methods using smart cards While smart cards add password PIN features and can also create dummy credit card numbers usable for one transaction only systems and methods utilizing smart cards require the installation and use of a smart card reader by the user and have thus had limited adoption by consumers. These special features are further available only when purchases are made via the computing device where the smart card reader is installed.

Systems and methods using digital signature information E Wallets As with smart cards systems and methods for e wallets require specialized software to be installed on the computing device of the e wallet s owner and therefore have not been widely adopted by consumers. Their features are likewise only available for purchases made via the computing device where such software is installed.

Other limitations and weaknesses in the prior art Notification of a transaction and any interaction with the actual party or parties who are truly authorized to conclude and approve it as opposed to interaction with parties who are perpetrating fraud by representing themselves as said actual authorized parties is generally left unaddressed by the prior art. Notification or interaction which does occur in the prior art is typically after the fact either by the actual authorized party s reviewing his her billing or account statements by consulting his her credit report via a credit reporting agency or if the payment processor for example the relevant credit card processor or bank so determines through a follow up telephone call from a customer service representative of such credit card processor or bank or through other messages delivered after the fact through a variety of basic communications media. These inherently after the fact processes do not interrupt or halt a fraudulent remote transaction before it is completed nor can they halt additional fraudulent transactions which may fit within a purchaser s normal risk profile made quickly thereafter using the same account number or other identifying information. Prior art which attempts to address the objective of verification of a transaction before it is concluded adds prohibitive requirements for the establishment registration with and use of intermediaries such as processing centers between customers and merchants fails to address the objectives of notification and approval of or by third parties and fails to address the class of transactions comprising the opening closing and modification of accounts.

It is desirable to verify and authenticate a transaction and in particular a potentially risky transaction without relying on the installation and use of new equipment by one or more of the parties having an interest in involved in or represented to be involved in said transaction nor requiring substantial alterations to existing processes or additional education and training for conducting such transactions nor requiring new intermediary entities to be established. It is further desirable to do so in a manner that thwarts any potential party to such a transaction who attempts to authorize or enter into it fraudulently. It is further desirable for such verification and authentication to work even when the mechanisms systems and methods described in the prior art may already be in use but still fail to protect fully against fraud especially when fraud is perpetrated as a result of the theft of private information. This is especially important in the area of transactions conducted remotely and in particular electronically. It is also desirable to notify automatically the actual party or parties having legitimate authority to approve or audit a transaction whether directly engaged in such transaction or not of the occurrence and or details of said transaction. It is also desirable to be determine the behavior of any embodiment of a system and method for such notification verification and authentication through the use of stored profiles of parties and transaction types and other parameters and also through profile information and other parameters which may be provided with and as part of an individual transaction.

The invention described herein provides a method and system for verifying authenticating and providing notification of a transaction such as a commercial or financial transaction with and or to at least one party represented or identified as engaging in said transaction or having a potential interest in said transaction or type of transaction in particular a remote or electronic transaction while it occurs and or after it occurs via one or more of a plurality of communication links and communication addresses associated with said at least one party so as to create a higher degree of certainty that the transaction is non fraudulent than is possible using any of the prior art without introducing significant delay in the completion of legitimate transactions and without requiring implementation of new equipment or software or learning of unfamiliar processes or technologies or establishment and use of separate processing centers or other intermediaries.

It is an object of the invention to provide a means of verifying and authenticating the identities and intentions of one some or all parties represented or identified as engaging in a transaction or having a potential interest in said transaction or type of transaction while it is in progress and or soon thereafter 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of accepting or obtaining information and parameters about said transaction including information about one or more parties represented or identified as engaging in or having a potential interest in said transaction from a transaction processing system or device such as a banking transaction system or credit card authorization or risk assessment system as it is processing the transaction 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of communications with and or to one or more parties having a potential interest in the transaction some of whom may be represented as engaged in the transaction through the use of identity related data such as an account number or numbers 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of defining at the time of the transaction or in advance of the transaction or both which specific parties have a potential interest in a given transaction and the nature of such interest 

It is also an object of the invention to allow said communications to occur over a plurality of communications media and or communications links to increase the likelihood of successful and secure communication with and or to said one or more parties 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of defining initiating and controlling said interactions and their content 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of obtaining and or storing information about the nature communication addresses and other parameters of said one or more parties communications devices used for said communications to enable additional verification and authentication of the identity or identities of said one or more parties 

It is also an object of the invention in its preferred embodiment to allow the behavior of said preferred embodiment to be controlled and managed under varying conditions and circumstances in accordance with stored profiles and additionally or alternatively in accordance with information provided along with the transaction information 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means in its preferred embodiment for the adapting the inventive systems behavior based on prevailing conditions and circumstances regarding said transaction which conditions and circumstances may change during or because of the utilization of the invention 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of recording and remembering the details of said transaction and the result or results of any subsequent communications for later review and use by the user of the invention 

It is also an object of the invention to provide a means of reporting and or transmitting and or forwarding a result or results regarding said transaction and said result or results of said subsequent communications.

Accordingly the invention to address the above and other objects provides a system and method for verifying authenticating and providing notification of a transaction such as a commercial or financial transaction with and or to at least one party represented or identified as engaging in said transaction or having a potential interest in said transaction or type of transaction in particular a remote or electronic transaction while it occurs and or after it occurs and in accordance with any parameters which may be supplied in or with information about the transaction additionally or alternatively with any profile or profiles which may be associated with the transaction.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention the occurrence of communications with said at least one party and at least one of a plurality of communications devices and associated predetermined communications addresses known to belong to said at least one party using at least one communications link other than the communications link used to initiate the transaction itself isolates the transaction medium or environment from the notification and or verification medium or environment such that a very high degree of accuracy and completeness of authentication and verification can be achieved with a minimum of delay and without requiring any new authentication verification technologies to be implemented or learned by the transacting party or parties.

The invention goes beyond current practices by providing a highly automated means and a method for individually and in combination 

The preferred embodiment of the invention associates one or more predetermined communications devices and addresses such as telephone numbers or wireless SIP addresses with a plurality of parties who may have an interest in be involved in or be identified as involved in a transaction and related identifying information which may include an account number or credit card number. Such identity device and address information are preferably defined and stored in advance in a non volatile storage or database in the form of a profile associated with each such party or are additionally or alternatively provided to the inventive system within or along with information about a specific transaction.

When a transaction is initiated with reference to such party or parties such as via identifiers such as credit card account number s bank account numbers or Social Security Numbers SSNs or tax identification numbers a central system then attempts to communicate via a plurality of communications links with and or to one or more of said plurality of parties via at least one of each such party s known predetermined communications device s to notify the party or parties of the transaction and additionally or alternatively to interact with the party or parties to authenticate and verify their identities intentions and or approvals in regard to the transaction. The invention further provides several alternative means and methods for establishing such communications with and or to each such party either in parallel or serially in the event that the primary means and or method associated with each such party is not successful. Each communication or set of communications is preferably governed by logic rules which may be predefined or dynamically determined and which may be encoded as a script to be executed in or by the central system said rules being determined in part based upon a categorization of the transaction the identities or a categorization of one or more of said plurality of parties and or other parameters obtained along with the information describing the transaction.

Because each such interaction occurs with the actual owner user of the communication device at a known and predefined communications address such as his her pre verified wireless SIP address if any party engaged in the transaction is not the owner user of said predefined communications address then 1 the interaction by definition alerts the actual owner user to a fraudulent transaction in progress and 2 the fraudulent owner user is thwarted because he she will be physically unable to authenticate him herself using the communications device found at said communications address. Further even if the fraudulent party is able to obtain such a communications device belonging to the true owning using party the fraudulent party must still supply further authenticating information presumed to be known only to the actual owning using party. Preferably the communications linkage employed for such interaction is different from the communications linkage used to initiate the transaction thereby further limiting the potential for fraud and for the theft of private information.

Additional utility may be derived when the user of the invention is in the role of a financial services organization such as a credit card issuer payments processing network merchant processor or acquirer employing the invention alongside or within its transaction authorization and or account management processes and systems to reduce transactional risk for its merchant and or consumer customers. Such financial services organizations already have in the normal course of their business advance knowledge of potential parties to transactions including identifying information and other parameters about such parties which may include their account numbers and their contact information such as home telephone numbers e mail addresses and wireless device addresses knowledge of transactions relating to their customers as they occur and a presumed relationship of trust with said potential parties to transactions. Their advance knowledge and existing trust relationships minimize their effort to implement and widely deploy the invention for maximum utility. In addition to the fraud reducing and fraud early warning benefit of the invention financial services organizations may also benefit from improved customer relationships through increased value adding contacts occurring as a result of the use of the invention and from the resulting higher level of service provided Financial service organizations that employ the invention may also benefit from the utility of a reduced perception by their consumer and merchant customers of the risks of conducting transactions electronically or remotely. Note that the additional utility to entities in the role of financial services organizations is not inherently limited to such entities nor is it the only additional utility they may obtain. This and other additional utility may be also be obtained by other users whether utilizing a similar or alternative embodiment of the invention.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention when a transaction message is received by the central system from a second system or device the central system parses the received message authenticates said second system or device and then may use the parsed data values to determine or derive a set of corresponding rules that inform or define the central system s subsequent actions and subsequent communications with or to a relevant party or parties over a plurality of communication links. Such rules may be predefined and if predefined are stored in advance in the central system s volatile and or nonvolatile storage memory or database s . The central system takes a plurality of actions according to said rules.

In the preferred embodiment the central system may establish a plurality of communications links which may include but are not limited to wireless and landline telephony SMS and wireless text messaging instant messaging and electronic mail and other Internet Protocol IP transmissions in a sequence defined by said rules to reach a plurality of parties having a potential interest in involved in or represented to be involved in said transaction. The central system attempts to communicate with and or to each of said plurality of parties via at least one predefined communications device specifically associated with that party.

As each of said communication links is successfully established the central system preferably delivers information to the corresponding party regarding the transaction which information may include 1 the transaction details which may include the nature or purpose of the transaction and or a total price or amount 2 additional information of potential value to said party such as product sales service and or marketing related information provided by the other party parties or a third party or parties and 3 other parameters which may include identifying information regarding one or more of said parties. Said delivery of information is preferably composed and formatted by the central system per a predefined message template or script that may be related to the transaction or the type of transaction the communications medium employed and the language in which the party is known to be conversant. For example in a telephone call said delivery of information may be comprised of concatenated segments of prerecorded audio and or text to speech synthesis.

Each such party may then be prompted to confirm his her identity and intentions which may include providing a PIN code CVV2 CVC2 CID code for a credit card or other unique and private identifier s such as the initial letters of his her mother s maiden name which datum or data may be predefined to the central system or may be supplied within or derived from the initiating transaction message. A confirming action or actions may be performed by said party via said communications link using a means appropriate to his her corresponding communications device. For example on a telephone DTMF digits may be pressed to convey the information prompted for by the central system.

Based on the results of said interaction s with said plurality of parties the central system preferably computes or otherwise derives a result which it then preferably transmits to said second system or device from which the transaction message originated and or to an associated third system. Further based on said retrieved stored rules and or said dynamically derived rules the central system also preferably transmits one or more of a plurality of notification messages about said transaction and said result to one or more of said plurality of parties over a plurality of communication links and may also log said results in a nonvolatile memory or other storage or database for later retrieval action and for analysis and or for billing purposes.

The central system communicates through a plurality of communications links using a plurality of communications protocols configured according to such rules as are to be supported and implemented in any specific embodiment of the invention. These communication links and protocols may include but are not limited to wireless and wireline telephony which may include text to speech processing recorded speech DTMF tones and combinations thereof electronic mail instant messaging fax paging Short Message Service SMS and other wireless text messaging and other existing widely used services and protocols as described more fully hereafter. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the central system also provides a means to add and delete a plurality of types of communication links and protocols as such types of communication links and protocols become available and desirable or cease to be available or desirable and a means of receiving translating and acting upon a plurality of informational codes and formats of transaction message as may be provided by differing types of second system or device originating such transaction message under differing conditions.

The invention achieves a very high degree of accuracy and completeness of authentication notification and verification of a transaction and the identity and intentions of one or more of the plurality of parties represented as entering into or conducting the transaction with a minimum of delay and without requiring new authentication verification technologies to be implemented or learned by such parties by 

In a Remote Transaction Engine such as a web e commerce server or a credit card authorization system or device processes a transaction initiated by one or more parties. The RTE may for example be operated by a merchant conducting remote transactions as by Internet or by telephone with its customers by two or more parties seeking to exchange goods services or funds by a financial institution conducting a financial transaction with a customer as via Automated Teller Machine by a payment processor organization in behalf of a merchant by a payments clearing network in behalf of a payment processor organization by a payment account issuer in behalf of the payments clearing network and the customer by a financial institution or merchant establishing or modifying an account such as a credit account for a customer or prospective customer or by a service bureau in behalf of any of these. The sole requirement of the RTE is to be able to provide a data message via an application programming interface API means predefined specification means or other equivalent means to the Central System CS of the embodiment of the invention via any one of several standard communications protocols over a communication link or network . This transaction describing message shall hereafter be called the Transaction Message.

The Transaction Message is received by the CS s Data Messaging Layer . The Data Messaging Layer is comprised of various hardware and software modules and interfaces for receipt queuing and interpretation of messages from a plurality of networks and may be implemented for example using technologies such as message queuing middleware for data communications and an Interactive Voice Response IVR unit for DMTF based telephony messages.

The Transaction Message if communicated over a public data network or other potentially insecure network such as the Internet may be further encoded or encrypted either in whole or in part by the RTE for added security such as with PM encryption or a similar standard encrypting protocol such as the Internet s TLS.

The preferred CS in general is further comprised of one or more processors memories and data storage software and software libraries such as may be written in and accompany the C and Java programming languages for handling and manipulating said message as described hereafter an operating system for managing low level elements of the system security elements such as firewall and or encryption software for limiting external access to the system encrypting content and defending against various forms of electronic attack upon it and database or other data managing software to store manage and perform searches and retrievals on information about parties transactions transaction processing rules communication methods and the like as more fully described hereafter. The CS is additionally comprised of a range of communications hardware and software collectively referred to as the Communications Subsystems which are used to notify or interact with one or more of a plurality of parties represented or identified as engaging in a transaction or having a potential interest in a transaction. Said Communications Subsystems .. are described further hereafter.

The minimum necessary contents of said Transaction Message are shown in Table 1 below. The choice of minimum necessary contents may vary from embodiment to embodiment of the inventive system. These data fields and values 1 identify the transaction originating entity 2 provide a mechanism to authenticate it 3 identify one or more parties having a potential interest in involved in and or represented to be involved in the transaction . . 4 identify the type of transaction such as a credit card purchase with card not present and 5 identify the price or amount of the transaction if applicable. Preferably the types of transactions known to the system are all user definable in advance through the User Web Client see below or via a bulk or automated load to the CS s databases.

Additional data fields and values may be supplied in the Transaction Message to further define the party or parties communication addresses to be used in authenticating this transaction . . a specific stored Rule Set see below to be invoked a specific stored message content template to be used either for this transaction in general or for each party . additional information to transmit to the relevant party or parties during the communications sessions which follow and the like as enumerated more fully in Table 1. There is also specific provision for a mechanism to include user defined fields and data values within said Transaction Message . These additional data in the Transaction Message if present preferably supersede such values as may be stored in advance in the CS s databases about a given type of transaction parties Rule Sets and so on.

The message protocol and format of the Transaction Message is defined according to the physical or logical port and or communication service through which it arrives at the CS s Data Messaging Layer and additionally for certain types of Internet messages according to meta tags and or content descriptor codes found at the start of the message which further define the formatting and content of the message. The message is parsed by the Data Messaging Layer according to said format and protocol and thereby decomposed into a series of name value pairs which correspond to the data fields shown in Table 1. The incoming data are thus normalized into a standard and internal format for subsequent processing independent of their originating format.

If the minimum required information as identified in Table 1 is not present or if the RTE cannot be authenticated the CS s Data Messaging Layer rejects the Transaction Message and sends a corresponding rejection message back to the RTE in a typical embodiment the rejection message is composed and transmitted via the same protocol used for receipt of the incoming message .

Where any name value pair is not defined in the message default values are looked up in the CS s primary database tables and views Table 2 Table 5 using the RTE ID transaction type and party identifiers s ff. as the index values via for example an SQL query or a stored database procedure. Note that the CS enforces that any variable length lists of required name value pairs such as the list of parties require at least one name value pair be explicitly defined in the incoming Transaction Message for said message to be deemed valid.

If any of the parties is a member of a Party Group either by prior association therewith through the CS s Parties database view shown in Table 3 or as superseded by data in the Transaction Message per Table 1 the Data Messaging Layer adds the identities Table 4 and roles of the parties belonging to the corresponding Group to the list of parties to be contacted for the transaction. Relevant SQL statements to determine all additional parties and their roles for a given transaction based on an initial set of parties 

 Object method. Returns a result code based on the success or failure of establishing a communications session such as a telephone call Instant Messaging session etc. to a specified communication address using the specified medium. The result for success is a session ID for the communication session. The result code for failure indicates the nature of the failure e.g. for a telephone call result code represent answered busy fast busy timeout on ring without answer no ring etc. 

In this way certain transaction types for a given party may automatically spawn communications with additional parties such as an employee s work supervisors or auditors a minor s parents or law enforcement personnel without requiring explicit mention of such additional parties in the incoming Transaction Message. Such Groups are preferably user definable in advance via the mechanism of the Profile databases Table 3 and the User Web Client . This feature of the invention creates significant advantages over the prior art by allowing automatic inclusion of a variety of additional parties in approval notification and auditing roles.

Each party is given a Role in accordance with its Profile Table 3 if any its inclusion via the Party Group mechanism Table 4 or as superseded by data in the Transaction Message per Table 1 23 . Another important advantage of the invention is the automatic assignment of Roles to the party or parties of the transaction such that different actions may be taken in regard to each party based upon not only the party s identity but also the Role of the party in the transaction. One embodiment of the invention uses roles such as Confirm for a party that is to provide input to the inventive system once contact has been established therewith for example to further authenticate his her identity and re approve the transaction Notify for a party that is only to be made aware of the transaction by the inventive system and Present for a party with whom contact is not to be established but whose related data and parameters are to be consulted and validated by the inventive system as part of the computation and delivery of a result message to the RTE .

Once the incoming Transaction Message s contents are validated the full list of target parties and their roles is defined and all relevant name value pairs that enable subsequent processing are established then a software based object or other data structure the Transaction Object containing these data is created in the CS s volatile and or nonvolatile memory or storage. The Transaction Object is then queued for subsequent processing by the Rules and Script Processing Layer RSP of the CS .

The RSP in addition to sharing the basic elements of the CS as described above is comprised of programming and database logic for the execution of both stored and dynamically defined Action Scripts where such Action Scripts define generalized parameterized processes for communicating with and or to one or more parties. The basic functions and components of such Scripts are shown and described in detail in Table 6. The concept of fully user programmable adaptive dynamic logic to control both the processing of individual transactions and the execution of the related communications with one or more of its parties is an important innovation introduced in and enhancing the value of the invention by allowing the inventive system to perform a variety of distinct actions and sequences of actions based on each transaction s type parties and roles and prevailing conditions and parameters and on the real time progress of the transaction through the inventive system.

The RSP draws on the queue of work created in the CS s memory or other storage by the Data Messaging Layer each work item being one Transaction Object comprised of 1 name value pairs describing the transaction as manipulated by the Data Messaging Layer and available to scripts as Environment Variables see Table 6 2 an associated Script designated as described below and 3 an evolving set of pending and actual communications link sessions and the results thereof further described below.

Transaction Objects may be drawn from this queue in sequential order unless there is an overlap among the identified parties of two or more such Transaction Objects. In such a case the following logic is preferably applied 1 If the parties roles are all for example Notify per Table 3 the Transaction Objects may be merged such that multiple notifications of multiple transactions may be sent to the same parties using the same communications sessions. 2 If any of the parties roles are for example Confirm then the second Transaction Object is not drawn from the queue by the RSP until the RSP has completely finished working on any prior overlapping Transaction Object s . This gatekeeping logic creates a unique advantage by prohibiting conflicting and potentially confusing or inherently failure prone communications link attempts to the same party or parties at the same time.

The Script associated with a given Transaction Object may preferably be determined as follows. First the Rule Set Table 1 for the transaction if identified in the incoming Transaction Message is found in the Rules database view Table 2 using for example an SQL query or stored database procedure. If it was not so identified a corresponding default Rule Set matching the transaction type and party is found in the CS s Profiles database view Table 3 using for example an SQL query or stored database procedure. If the corresponding Rule Set returned by the query is null a System Default Rule Set may be used in its place.

Once the Rule Set is known and associated with the Transaction Object its record in the Rule Set database view may be used to provide the following information which may be used to control the further processing the transaction per Table 2 

Once the above data have been gathered and stored in the system s memory or other storage along with the other transaction information aggregated into the Transaction Object the RSP executes the aforesaid Script. In general Scripts preferably 1 attempt to establish communication link sessions simultaneously with all relevant parties associated with the transaction and where possible 2 deliver messages to the parties over such communication link sessions 3 prompt for and accept input from the party of parties defined as having for example Confirm Roles Table 3 Table 4 4 compute an overall result summarizing the outcomes of all such communications and communication attempts 5 optionally log the transaction communication attempt results and said outcomes and overall result and 6 communicate the result back to the RTE .

An important advantage of the invention is the adaptive logic represented by such Scripts in lieu of a static process logic mechanism that executes a single statically defined sequence of instructions in every case and under every condition.

In general for each party the preferred embodiment s RSP will perform the following standard actions under the control of the Script . Note that communications to multiple patties will occur simultaneously unless directed otherwise by said Script via concurrently executing asynchronous system processes in the CS s Communications Control Layer CCL . The process flow for the preferred embodiment of the invention with the RSP executing a Script is diagrammed in in which the RSP will perform in accordance with a method comprising the steps of 

Once each party s communication session a occurs successfully and if in a Confirm Role obtains the required input from the contacted party H I such as a PIN password or CVV2 CVC2 CID value b occurs but fails to gather such required input from the party J K or c fails to occur after all attempt Schedule Patterns are exhausted N Q the RSP is notified by the CCL that all necessary sessions and contact attempts are complete S . Note Parties are processed in parallel that is concurrently by the preferred embodiment of inventive system. The RSP computes a result message T back to the RTE said message being transmitted via the Data Messaging Layer preferably using the same format and protocol as the received Transaction Message. Upon transmission of the result message the Transaction Object is removed from the CS s work queues and memory and new Transaction Objects if any may then be processed.

Note that in a large scale embodiment the inventive system is likely to process a large volume of Transaction Messages and Transaction Objects concurrently via multithreaded processing and load balancing among multiple processors and subsystems and its design should not be construed as requiring serial processing of Transaction Messages and Transaction Objects.

The Communications Control Layer of the preferred embodiment of the inventive system coordinates and manages the activity of the Communications Subsystems. The CCL in addition to sharing the basic elements of the CS as described above is comprised of software specific to the establishment and management of simultaneous communications link sessions across a plurality of media. Said software may be implemented using such software frameworks and with such application development tools and platforms as CallXML an open source mark up language for creating server based interactive telecommunications applications or the Adaptive Communications Environment an open source software framework and library for managing signaling events dynamic reconfiguration of services and concurrent process synchronization for multithreaded real time communications .

The Communications Subsystems are of three general types 1 telephony related for voice and audio communications 2 Internet and data related for data and text messaging and 3 specialty data network related for certain other types of data transfer such as EDI and SNA RJE. The Communications Subsystems are each comprised of hardware and software for transmitting and receiving signals to and from a specific class of devices terminals over a particular communications link or links or communications network or networks using a specific protocol or family of protocols. Each is further comprised of a collection of logical and physical ports or other equivalent interfaces each capable of sustaining concurrent communications with one or more where applicable individual device s and or terminal s across a corresponding communications link or network. Said devices and networks are presumed to be external to the inventive system but in other embodiments need not be. 

A high level representation of a subset of the communications links and media supported by a preferred embodiment of the inventive system is shown in . A complete low level representation of the communications media interfaces links and potentially supported devices for each Communications Subsystem for an embodiment of the inventive system is presented individually from to inclusive.

The Communications Subsystems provide a layer of abstraction to the CCL which is then able to interact with the various communication media and devices of the party or parties to a transaction in terms of generic communication sessions.

The following tables relate the communications devices and media and the networks which support them per the aforesaid Figures. The first table identifies the media explicitly shown in .

The following table shows media networks and devices are covered indirectly in under and but which are explicitly described in . inclusive. Note that it is the intent of 1 and additionally to define the ability of the inventive system to be expanded to accommodate additional or alternative communications media networks and or devices over time as they become desirable and or available and or as implemented communication media networks and or devices cease to be available and or desirable. 

The CCL initiates one or more concurrent multithreaded processes which queue requests to obtain communication ports from one or more of the Communications Subsystems . and then direct the Communications Subsystems in establishing communication with and or to the party or parties to the transaction according to the Script and Environment Variables of the Transaction Object. The Script and Environment Variables based on the data obtained from the Profiles Groups Rule Set and Communications Sequence Patterns database views Table 2 Table 5 identify the parties and their communication devices for the given transaction define a sequence for the occurrence of communications with and or to each applicable party and specify which communications links networks and protocols media to use at various points within said sequence.

The preferred embodiment of the inventive system provides for three generalized sequences for contacting a party 1 attempting to reach each device associated with that party sequentially 2 attempting to reach each device associated with that party in parallel and 3 combinations thereof. Further each device may be tried several times in succession until contact is established with it as defined in its associated Communications Sequence Pattern Table 5 . The Environment Variables include information for the CCL and Communications Subsystems to use for timing out on an individual attempt and on a sequence of attempts. The CCL coordinates these patterns of communication attempts through to their logical conclusion.

The inventive system also provides through a corresponding Communications Sequence Pattern definition a mechanism to allow a party to initiate contact with the system within an allowed time interval using the Environment Variable Inbound Outbound Table 5 in conjunction with Attempt Timeout Value and Sequence Timeout Value . For this to occur the communication address such as a telephone number or Instant Messaging ID of the device used by the party must be universally and securely detectable by the appropriate Communication Subsystem interface such as with Automatic Number Identification ANI service for devices using the Public Switched Telephone Network by the Telephony Interface .

When attempting to establish contact with a party s device the appropriate Communications Subsystem executes a cycle of attempts the timing of which is defined by the values for the corresponding Communications Sequence Pattern s fields shown in Table 5 specifically the values for First Attempt Delay Smart Retry Flag Maximum Number of Attempts and Attempts Spacing . The use of these party and device specific user predefined parameters to guide the inventive system in its interaction attempts with a party provides the invention with the advantage of a high degree of flexibility and effectiveness in getting through to a party with a minimum of difficulty.

As shown in in the Communication Session process block an active communication session with a party s device is comprised of the following generic cycle of functional execution of elements of the preferred embodiment of the inventive system and corresponding process steps 

For the first successful Confirm Role session and for all Notify sessions as such Roles Table 3 Table 4 and associated Scripts Table 6 may be defined in a given embodiment of the invention an associated message template per Table 7 is defined in the Environment Variables Table 6 MessageTemplate n accessible to said Script. In a typical embodiment of such a Script as soon as a communication link session is reported as open and active by the corresponding Communications Subsystem the Script execution process thread begins composing and transmitting the various segments of said message template to the communication device G formatted according to the capabilities and limitations of the communication device. For example in a telephony communication link session the message may be reformulated by the use of a text to speech processor and prerecorded audio may be interpolated by the Telephony Interface or related IVR processor whereas for an Internet HTFP session using XML the message may be reformatted using a referenced XMI stylesheet XLS and text or image based components may be substituted for audio components of the message.

Particularly in the case of communications sessions requiring input from the reached party the message may consist of multiple segments that are composed and delivered to the party s communication device serially by the appropriate Communications Subsystem.

If an input is indeed required H and the device supports it per the Communication Sequence Pattern Table 5 Interactivity Flag the executing Script process will preferably prompt for and wait to receive input from the party. The form of the input depends on the nature of the communication device and medium for telephony class devices it is typically and preferably in the form of DTMF tones produced by touch tone dialing or additionally or alternatively via voice requiring the use of a voice recognition processor while for Internet and data type devices it is typically and preferably through a return message such as HTML e mail SMTP reply Instant Messaging text reply and for a specialty device or terminal such as an SNA RJE device it is typically and preferably through a specifically formatted data exchange particular to the protocol being employed.

The Script may define whether the input must be validated before proceeding and if so may give the party multiple attempts to enter correct information before abandoning the attempt. Such attempts at receiving input may further be governed by Timeout parameters see Table 6 Transaction Communication Session Object Properties such that when the indicated time has elapsed the attempt is abandoned J . In an out of time case or in such case as a predefined number of input attempts is initiated over the communication link session without successful validation the Script delivers a timeout message segment if so defined in the message template K .

If input was prompted for a corresponding Environment Variable flag is set see Table 6 PartyConfirmContact n to identify that a Confirm Role session has attempted to gain input required from the party.

At the conclusion of any and all input gathering and delivery pf message segments the communication link session is terminated by the Communications Subsystem and optionally by the party as well if the party reacts more quickly than the Communications Subsystem . The results may be stored L for use by the system later on.

If the session was successfully initiated whether or not correct input was actually received and was for example a Confirm Role session as may have been indicated through the use of the aforesaid PartyConfirmContact n Environment Variable further attempts to contact the party in a Confirm Role or equivalent based on the embodiment of the inventive system are preferably disabled for the current transaction.

For all non Confirm devices and if a Confirm Role contact has not yet been made successfully on any Confirm Role device for example the processes threads executing the Communication Sequence Patterns in regard to the corresponding devices continue.

After the failure of an attempt the attempt parameters and corresponding failure data provided by the appropriate Communication Subsystem are preferably logged in the system s databases or other volatile or nonvolatile memory or storage and if there are further attempts allowed per the effective Maximum Number of Attempts setting Table 5 the thread of execution for the applicable Communication Sequence Pattern waits until the next attempt should be made per 1 the Attempts Spacing value corresponding to the next attempt in the Sequence and or 2 the Smart Retry setting as described above. This is shown in FIG. s Wait per device s attempt schedule process box O .

If the attempt schedule is exhausted the executing process may initiate a new process with a new Communication Sequence Pattern if such additional Sequence is defined for use upon the unsuccessful exhaustion of the current one Table 5 Action on Final Failure .

This mechanism an innovative advantage of the inventive system allows the chaining of Communication Sequence Patterns to arbitrary lengths executing until success occurs or the final Sequence in the chain of Sequences fails. It is also possible thereby if only sometimes desirable to set up an endless cycle of communication attempts through self referencing chains of Sequences such that the inventive system will attempt to establish contact with a party indefinitely until successful. This is particularly useful in the case of a transaction which by its nature and that of its parties indicates an emergency situation such as an authorization transaction non commercial in nature regarding the entry by some party to a restricted or secured area or system or an extremely urgent and critical commercial transaction requiring immediate confirmation by a party not otherwise directly engaged therein at the time.

It is further possible and desirable under certain conditions to establish an inbound Communication Sequence Pattern Table 5 to be initiated by the party as a follow on Sequence to an outbound Sequence. For example a wireless text message may be sent to the party s cellular telephone which text message includes a callback hyperlink to an embodiment of the inventive system s Telephony Communications Subsystem Interface . Simultaneously an inbound Communication Sequence Pattern is established which waits for contact from the party similar to the underlying contact mechanism described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 727 163 to Bezos. The party by responding to the callback hyperlink in the wireless text message then interacts with the Telephony Interface and is joined to the executing process which has been waiting for his her inbound contact.

The following Table 11 presents component technologies which may be used by one skilled in the art to construct the communications interfaces and links shown in . .

It is increasingly possible and practical for the physical interfaces and ports such as those described above to be substituted by Internet Protocol connections to service providers and service bureaus which accept IP based inputs such as SMTP formatted e mails and translate and deliver such inputs to other types of device such as fax telex and mobile browser based devices. The inventive system per its potential embodiment s described herein does not purport to specifically require any particular interface type for the stated communication links or communication media nor to require that message conversion occur within the inventive system rather than in and by an external service provider s system s . The full scope and capability of the inventive system and method are enumerated in the invention s claims.

As shown in Table 7 message templates are preferably comprised of free form text with embedded field substitution codes and file insertion codes which may be of a form such as xxx where xxx is the name of an Environment Variable see Table 6 file yyyyy where yyyyy is a filepath on the Central System or a Uniform Resource Locator URL accessible to the Central System and zzzz xxx1 xxx2 . . . where zzzz is a script function name and xxx1 xxx2 etc. are Environment Variables passed to the function identified by zzzz . In the file case the contents of said file are inserted in the message template in place of the file . . . marker. In the other two cases the variable or function is evaluated and the results thereof are inserted in place of the substitution marker.

The use of a URL to supply some or all message contents is a powerful innovation because it allows remote content and even remote templates to be included dynamically and programmatically on a transaction by transaction basis that is without requiring any user initiated changes or updates to the inventive system or its databases contents whatsoever .

A message template is defined by an ID and by a language such as English . Therefore a single message template may have multiple instances across multiple languages distinguished by the values in the Language field from record to record. A corresponding currency name may also be associated for use with financial content in the message template as per Table 2 

In some circumstances a stylesheet retrieved and referenced by a Universal Resource Locator URL or Universal Resource Identifier UDI may be substituted for a stored message template or a message template passed to the central system in the incoming Transaction Message. This powerful innovation allows mark up methods of message content definition and formatting definition to be applied remotely to the inventive system on a transaction by transaction basis dynamically and programmatically that is without requiring any user initiated changes or updates to the inventive system or its databases contents whatsoever .

Prior to first use of the preferred embodiment of the inventive system at least one entry is required in each of its various database views Table 2 Table 5 excluding the Group view representing a default Rule Set Party Profile Communication Sequence Pattern Action Script and Message Template for at least one type of transaction and at least one party from one RTE . Such data entry may be performed by an operator of the CS through a means such as a web browser based interface as shown in User Web Client or by remotely loading values into the database tables through a database loader utility or by using a programmatic interface for performing remote database updates. Subsequent modifications may be performed in a like manner.

An authorized user may log into the inventive system and upon being granted access thereby may view data and log records related to his account and edit his her Profile and select from among predefined Communication. Sequence Patterns. If a superuser s he may view and edit the accounts and Profiles Rules Sets and Communication Sequence Patterns of others within his her proscribed range of access. 

In practice parties having a potential interest in transactions which may be processed by the inventive system will tend to updated their own Profiles as may regard their preferred communication devices. Sequences of contact thereon preferred language and related Roles for various transaction types which the operator or other user of the inventive system may provide to them per the specific embodiment of the inventive system. The operator or other user of the inventive system will tend to manage and update all other information particularly rule and message oriented information.

Although the present invention has been described in relation to particular embodiments thereof many other variations and modifications and other uses will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore the present invention is not limited by the specific disclosure herein.

