---

title: System and method for estimating order position
abstract: A system and method for providing order queue position information are disclosed. In this application, market updates are received for a tradeable object from at least one exchange. To the extent that the market updates do not include enough details to compute the queue position of a trader's working orders, estimation may be used. As a result, an order queue is generated to approximate a trader's order position in an exchange price order queue. An interface may be used to display the generated order queue estimation to the trader which provides valuable trading information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762254&OS=08762254&RS=08762254
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08762254
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121220
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 353 659 filed Jan. 19 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 615 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 575 filed Dec. 15 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 126 801 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 415 890 filed May 2 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 882 012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 452 567 filed May 30 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 809 628 entitled A System and Method for Estimating Order Position the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. Specifically the present invention is directed to tools for trading tradeable objects that can be traded with quantities and or prices.

An electronic exchange typically provides an automatic matching process between traders or more specifically between buyers and sellers. Traders are connected to an electronic exchange by way of a communication link to facilitate electronic messaging between themselves and the exchange. Included in the messaging are buy and sell orders sent from the traders to the exchange. Of course other types of well known financial transaction messages are also communicated.

Generally when a buy order or a sell order is submitted to an exchange the exchange s logic checks the conditions associated with the order for example price and quantity and determines if a match exists. If a match does not exist the exchange s logic prioritizes the order into an exchange order book with other orders of the same price. When the order conditions are satisfied in the market or equivalently a match exists a trade occurs and trade information is then often relayed in some fashion to one or more client devices. To do this the exchange would typically publish a data feed to the client devices to inform the traders of the most recent market changes.

The contents of the data feed however are often limited in information. Generally the data feed only presents enough information to provide total aggregate quantities available at particular prices. In other words an exchange usually provides in its data feed the total buy or the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level. Trading software installed on a computer can receive the data feed and after that the information contained in the date feed is displayed to a trader. Then the trader attempts to use this information to spot opportunities in the market and to determine where to place orders. However because this information is limited and oftentimes inadequate to fully characterize a market s activity it can essentially force the trader to guess as to what is actually happening in the market. As a result the trader may not be making the best possible trades.

Despite the limitations of the informational content provided by an exchange traders want to characterize the markets to the best of their abilities. It is therefore desirable to offer tools that can provide a trader with more information to better assess a market at an electronic exchange. Such additional information may be helpful in for example spotting opportunities in the market and ultimately may be used to help traders make more informed and desirable trades.

An electronic exchange maintains an exchange order book that represents unexecuted buy and sell orders for a particular tradeable object. A matching engine at the exchange attempts to match incoming orders to those orders resting in the exchange order book. If there is no match the orders are preferably sorted by price and time priority. In particular the exchange s logic sorts the orders into the appropriate price order queue where the orders rest until they are matched by the matching engine or until the orders are deleted or changed by the trader for example. When orders are matched changed added or removed from the price order queue information regarding its change is generally broadcast to the client devices in the form of market updates. Market updates are an attempt to provide client devices with the ability to create their own order books that are coordinated with the exchange order book.

Practically speaking however market updates provided by most if not all electronic exchanges do not adequately describe the details of the exchange order book and more specifically the details of the price order queues. Generally market updates in a data feed usually only present enough information to provide the total aggregate quantity available at a particular price level. In other words a market update may only provide the total quantity in a particular price order queue and they may not provide the actual number of orders resting in the queue or they may not indicate where a given trader s order position is within the price order queue. However traders might want more detailed information such as the number of orders in the exchange order queue the order sizes and or the order position in the price order queues to assist them for example in making better and more informed trades.

To assist traders in their quest for more information the present invention provides an estimation of the trader s order position in a price order queue. The order position estimation may be displayed in any particular fashion however for sake of illustration some display examples are described herein. Additionally the present invention may be utilized with the inventions set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 348 134 filed on Jan. 21 2003 entitled Method and Apparatus for Providing Order Queue Information the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The incorporated patent application describes a method and apparatus for estimating the number of orders in a price order queue and for estimating the size of each order.

Any of exchanges may represent for example the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT the New York Stock Exchange NYSE the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME the Exchange Electronic Trading Xetra a German stock exchange or the European Exchange Eurex or any other exchange that participates in electronic trading. Exchanges might also refer to other facilities which include basic to more complex systems that automatically match incoming orders. These example exchanges and other exchanges are well known in the art. Communication protocols required for connectivity to one of these exchanges are also well known in the art.

Exchanges allow traders to log onto a market to trade tradeable objects. As used herein the term tradeable objects refers simply to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of tradeable objects such as financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable object such as a class of tradeable objects.

An exchange can implement numerous types of order execution algorithms sometimes the type of algorithm depends on the tradeable object being traded. Preferably the preferred embodiments can be adapted by one skilled in the art to work with any particular order execution algorithm. Some example order execution algorithms include first in first out and pro rata algorithms. The first in first out FIFO algorithm used for some tradeable objects listed with Eurex for example gives priority to the first person to place an order. The pro rata algorithm used for some tradeable objects listed with LIFFE for example splits all orders for the same price. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of order execution algorithm. It should also be understood that the price order queue is a term that covers a broad range of systems used by an exchange to conduct orderly financial transactions such as for example a FIFO system or a pro rata system.

Regardless of the type of order execution algorithm used each exchange preferably provides similar types of information in market updates found in their data feeds to subscribing client devices . Market information may include data that represents just the inside market. The inside market is the lowest sell price best ask and the highest buy price best bid at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the exchange. For instance some electronic exchanges provide market depth for all or most price levels some exchanges provide market depth for a finite number of price levels while some exchanges provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally exchanges can offer other types of market information for example the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ total traded quantity TTQ and order fill information. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to receiving and analyzing a data feed consisting of market updates. One skilled in the art would recognize upon reading the description herein that the present invention has utility in any trading application where any particular type of data feed is provided.

Gateways are devices such as a mainframe super minicomputer minicomputer workstation or microcomputer that connect network to networks so that market information can be successfully passed between client devices and exchanges . Gateways receive market information from exchanges and convert it to a form compatible with the protocols used by client devices using conversion techniques known in the art. Also as known by those skilled in the art gateways may have one or more servers to support the data feeds such as a price server for processing price information an order server for processing order information and a fill server for processing fill information. A trader at one of client devices can subscribe to price information order information and fill information for a particular market hosted at exchanges . Gateways also receive transaction information such as orders order changes queries etc. from client devices and forward that information to corresponding exchanges .

Client devices are devices that provide an interface for traders to trade at one or more markets listed with one some or all of exchanges . Some examples of client devices include a personal computer laptop computer hand held computer and so forth. Client devices according to the preferred embodiments include at least a processor and memory. The processor and memory which are both well known computer components are not shown in the Figure for sake of clarity. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process the various types of market information. Of course the more market information which is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the present invention.

Memory may include computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory or RAM random access memory . Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Client devices receive market information from any of exchanges . According to the preferred embodiment market information is displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device of client devices . The output device can be any type of display. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other type of display. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of display.

Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an exchange cancel orders in a market change orders in a market query an exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client device for example by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input device. Upon receiving one or more commands or signals client devices preferably generate transaction information. For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a tradeable object. Then transaction information would include an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated transaction information is sent from client device to host exchange over network s .

As previously described exchanges can often provide data feeds with limited amounts of information. Such limited information provided by an exchange makes it more difficult for a trader to assess what is actually happening in a market and in particular makes it difficult to determine the priority of the trader s order s over other orders at the same price level.

According to the preferred embodiments market updates in a data feed from any given exchange are preferably analyzed and the position of a trader s order or orders in one or more price order queues is estimated. In the preferred embodiments the position of a trader s order in a price order queue is estimated such that it is certain to be first in the price order queue next to be matched when all of the estimated quantity orders resting in front of it if there are any are matched. In other words the trader s order may be matched sooner than what is estimated but preferably the trader s order will not be matched later than what is estimated this may also be referred to as the worst case as defined herein. The worst case order position estimation can be provided or displayed to the trader in any particular manner to assist him or her in making better and more informed trades.

When an incoming order arrives at an exchange a matching engine attempts to match some or all of the incoming order depending on its order size and what is available in the market to quantity resting in the exchange order book. If quantities are matched the exchange then publishes a market update that indicates a match has occurred. The market update would also provide the matched quantity and price. If an exchange provides only snapshot type updates such that last traded price LTP and last traded quantity LTQ are not provided in separate information packets the snapshot types updates may be analyzed to determine if a match has occurred. According to a FIFO matching system for example the quantity that was previously resting in the exchange order book is removed from the price order queue and quantity if any in the price order queue advances towards the front of the queue.

Similarly according to the preferred embodiments when a match occurs the quantity that was matched is preferably removed from the front of the trader s order queue to reflect the similar change at the exchange price order queue. In addition when a match occurs the trader s order or orders in the price order queue may advance towards the front of the queue by the amount that was traded.

In the preferred embodiments the matched quantity and price can be found in a market update. For example when a match occurs between two traders both traders would receive a market update indicating a match has occurred. For those traders whose orders were not matched a market update is broadcast indicating the last traded quantity LTQ and the last traded price LTP . Of course some exchanges might provide other ways of informing traders that a match has occurred all of which may preferably be used to determine that a match has occurred.

Although order queue information is in electronic form such as stored in computer memory attempts to graphically illustrate a trader s order queue for purposes of explanation. Referring to the quantity at the front is next to be matched assuming the market moves to the price represented by the price order queue. The quantity at the back is last to be matched. It should be understood that the term trader s order queue as used herein refers to the estimation of the trader s order position relative to other orders if there are other orders in the price order queue at an exchange. The price order queue is a term covering any type of data structure and or memory storage system used by an exchange to conduct orderly financial transactions such as for example a FIFO system or a pro rata system.

The order position estimation may be displayed in any particular fashion to the trader. For example one particular way to graphically display the order position estimation is by trader s order queue shown in or variations thereof . Then for example a trader s order queue like could be displayed at each price level or at least at each price level where the trader using the software and or hardware of the preferred embodiments has one or more working orders. Of course there are virtually an unlimited number of ways to display such information to the trader.

Assume for purposes of illustration that a trader using the preferred embodiments places an order referred to as trader s order . Also assume that there is quantity in front of trader s order and there is quantity in back of trader s order . According to the preferred embodiments matched quantity would be removed from the front of the queue . In other words quantity in front would be reduced and trader s order would advance in the trader s order queue . Quantity in back would also advance towards the front of the order queue .

If quantities are not matched the orders at the exchange are preferably sorted by price and time priority into the price order queue where the orders rest until they are matched by the matching engine or until the orders are deleted or changed by the trader for example. Using a FIFO based system the new order is placed at the back of the price order queue by the exchange s logic.

Referring to assuming that a trader places an order. As such the order would preferably be placed at the back of the trader s order queue to simulate what would happen at an exchange using a FIFO system.

Sometimes a trader may have an order resting in the price order queue and later wish to add quantity to the order. However according to many exchanges if quantity is added to an already existing order then the order would lose its current queue position and go to the back of the price order queue. An exchange may then publish a market update to reflect the change. More specifically the market update does not usually indicate that the quantity was added to an order instead the market update might only indicate the total aggregate quantity at that price.

To determine if more quantity has been added the aggregate quantity in this recent market update may be compared with the aggregate quantity from a previous market update e.g. stored in memory to determine that an increase in aggregate quantity at that price has occurred. According to the preferred embodiments only the increase in aggregate quantity is added to the back of the trader s order queue. The original order quantity is left in the trader s order queue where it was prior to the market update. Preferably if a trader had one or more orders resting in the trader s order queue they would not have advanced to the front of the queue.

Referring to using the worst case approach the increase in aggregate quantity would be added to the quantity in back . Under this scenario trader s order would not advance to the front of the queue because quantity in front remained unchanged. It should be understood that because the trader using the preferred embodiments placed trader s order any change to trader s order would be known by the preferred system and therefore the system could adjust for it. For example if the trader added quantity to trader s order then the preferred system may move trader s order with the increased quantity to the back of the queue . The preferred system could also verify that trader s order changed upon receiving confirmation from the exchange and or via a market update indicating an increase in quantity equal to that of the increase in quantity for trader s order .

Sometimes a trader may have an order resting in the price order queue and later wish to delete quantity from the order. According to many exchanges if quantity were deleted from an already existing order the order would remain in its current queue position. An exchange may also publish a market update to reflect the change. More specifically the market update does not usually indicate that quantity was deleted from an order instead the market update might indicate the total aggregate quantity at that price.

To determine if quantity has been deleted the aggregate quantity in this market update may be compared with the aggregate quantity from a previous market update to determine that a decrease in aggregate quantity at that price has occurred. According to the preferred embodiments the decrease in aggregate quantity is removed from the back of the trader s order queue.

Referring to using the worst case approach the decrease in aggregate quantity may be removed from quantity in back . If there is not enough quantity in back to satisfy the decrease then preferably the remaining portion of the decrease is taken from quantity in front . Or if there is no quantity in back then preferably the entire decrease is taken from quantity in front . Similarly to adding quantity to an order it should be understood that because the trader using the preferred embodiments placed trader s order any change to trader s order would be known and therefore the system could adjust for it. For example if the trader deleted quantity from trader s order then the system would preferably decrease the size of trader s order but it would remain in the same queue position. The system could also verify the order change upon receiving confirmation from the exchange and or via a market update indicating a decrease in quantity equal to that of the decrease in quantity for trader s order .

Similar to deleting quantity from an order if an entire order was deleted from the exchange a market update would only indicate a decrease in quantity at that price has occurred. According to the exchange if an order was deleted from a price order queue a market update may only indicate a decrease in aggregate quantity at that price has occurred.

To determine if less quantity is available at a price level than before the aggregate quantity in this market update may be compared with the aggregate quantity from a previous market update to determine that a decrease in aggregate quantity at that price has occurred. Using the worst case approach the decrease in aggregate quantity is removed from the back of the trader s order queue. Therefore the preferred embodiments treat an entire order deletion the same as quantity deleted from an existing order.

The same concepts may be applied when a trader has more than one trader s order. Preferably each trader s order in a trader s order queue is treated separately from one another. attempts to graphically illustrate a trader s order queue which is similar to order in . The quantity at the front is next to be matched. The quantity at the back is last to be matched. Assume this time that a trader using the preferred embodiments places orders referred to as trader s order and trader s order . Also assume that there is quantity in front of trader s order a quantity in between trader s orders and and there is quantity in back of trader s order .

Referring to according to the preferred embodiments the matched quantity would be removed from the front of the queue . Then trader s order quantity in middle trader s order and quantity in back would advance towards the front of the order queue . An increase in aggregate quantity would be added to the quantity in back . Then trader s orders and would not advance to the front of the queue because quantity in front and quantity in middle remain unchanged. A decrease in aggregate quantity e.g. due to order change or an entire order deletion would be removed from quantity in back . If there is not enough quantity in back to satisfy the decrease then preferably the remaining portion of the decrease is taken from quantity in middle and if there is not enough there it would be taken from quantity in front . The preferred system can monitor and track as many trader s orders as necessary.

The preferred embodiments can be used with any particular exchange and more specifically can be implemented regardless if the exchange provides market updates for all price levels or almost all price levels . For example the LIFFE CONNECT application programming interface can provide market updates for 20 price levels above and 20 price levels below the inside market which for all practical purposes may be considered as providing market updates for almost all price levels. If the exchange provides market updates for all price levels or equivalently for all price levels with activity price levels with resting buy or sell orders then trader s order queues can be created to replicate an exchange s price order queues for each of those price levels.

There are instances when an exchange provides market updates for only a limited number of price levels. For example the CME application programming interface provides market updates for only 5 price levels above and 5 price levels below the inside market. In these instances trader s order queues can be created to replicate an exchange s price order queues for only the provided price levels e.g. 5 price levels above and 5 price levels below the inside market . Then if the market moves away from a price level within that range the system can preferably freeze the contents in the generated trader s order queue until the price level falls within that range again or alternatively the system may reset erase the contents of the trader s order queue for that price level.

If the exchange does not provide market updates for all price levels and a trader decides to put an order in at a price where such updates are not provided the preferred system will preferably create a trader s order queue to hold that order. For example the preferred system might put the order at the front of the trader s order queue or alternatively put the order behind quantity which might have existed before that particular price level went out of range. As the market moves towards that price level and the market updates are provided for that price then the system preferably updates the trader s order queue to reflect any quantity which might be in the price order queue. For example assume that a trader placed an order for 50 at 100 which is currently out of range for receiving market updates. Shortly after assume that the market moves towards a price of 100 and the system now receives a market update indicating a quantity of 75 at the price 100 our order of 50 and a quantity of 25 from one or more other market participants . According to the preferred embodiments the our order is placed in the back of the trader s order queue and the remaining quantity e.g. 25 is preferably placed in front of the queue.

Information regarding the trader s estimated order position may be displayed in any particular fashion and the present invention is not so limited to the manner in which such information is displayed. For example the trader s estimated order position may be displayed using text to describe the trader s order position numbers graphically e.g. such as shown in or through some other display choice.

The trader s order position could be as simple as displaying a number which corresponds to the estimated quantity in front of the order. For example referring to consider when quantity in front is 45 trader s order is 10 quantity in middle is 25 trader s order is 15 and quantity in back is 0. Then a number such as 45 may be displayed in association with trader s order and a number such as 80 may be displayed in association with trader s order . Then from viewing the numbers the trader may easily determine that my order is certain to be first in the order queue when 45 are filled or deleted and that my order is certain to be first in the order queue when 80 are filled or deleted .

The trader s order position may be displayed graphically such as displayed in . For example orders or quantity could be dynamically displayed in a graphical order queue. The orders or quantity represented by blocks or some other symbol shape or color could move in the order queue depending on the order estimation. Each order queue may be displayed next to the corresponding price level. For example the preferred embodiments may be utilized with a commercially available trading application and interface referred to as X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static price scale or axis. Then trader s order queues may be displayed next to or near the corresponding price level. For example referring to the trading window with a vertical price axis in order estimation may be displayed next to the corresponding price levels that have working orders or any other desired price level . Block is a guide that indicates the front of the queue by F and the back of the queue by B. Queue shows the trader s sell order for 10 is estimated at the front of the exchange order queue for the price 147. Queue shows the trader s sell order for 15 is an estimated 13 back from the front of the exchange order queue for the price 143. Queue shows the trader s buy order for 10 is an estimated 10 back from the front of the exchange order queue for the price 139. Of course provides only an example and the present invention is not limited to displaying order estimation in this manner.

Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth filed on Jun. 9 2000 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display Of Market Depth And Price Consolidation filed on Oct. 5 2001 the contents of both are incorporated by reference herein. It should be understood however that any trading screen whether or not there is a static price scale may be used with the present invention.

Although such details are not necessary to the present invention the number of orders in the order queue could also be estimated and the size of the orders could be estimated in addition to tracking and monitoring the trader s order position. Recall that estimating order numbers and order sizes is described in the already incorporated in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 348 134 filed on Jan. 21 2003 entitled Method and Apparatus for Providing Order Queue Information the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The preferred embodiments estimate the trader s order position in such a way as to be certain that the order will be filled when the estimated quantity ahead of it if any gets filled. Traders may find this type of estimation to be desirable as it provides them with a worst case scenario. For example if according to the preferred embodiments a quantity of 45 is ahead of the trader s order then the trader knows his or her order will be at the front of the price order queue at the exchange if at a maximum 45 get filled or deleted.

However there are alternative ways to estimate order position that would attempt to provide other best guesses as to the trader s order position in the queue. The alternative approaches could be used together with the preferred embodiments or instead the alternative approaches could be used separately whichever is more desirable to the trader. Examples of these approaches are described below with respect to an example shown in .

Referring to assume that the order queue contains orders for 20 10 30 15 trader s own order 25 and 10. Therefore the total estimated quantity is 110. For ease of explanation let us refer to the orders as order 20 order 10 order 30 order 15 order 25 and order 10 .

Now assume that a market update was received indicating an aggregate quantity of 100. This indicates a reduction in quantity by 10. Using techniques described in the above incorporated application it may be determined that the decrease in quantity was not due to a match. If it was not due to a match then there are several possibilities of what might have happened assuming the trader did not change order . For example 10 of order might have been deleted order might have been deleted entirely 10 of order might have been deleted 10 of order might have been deleted or order might have been deleted entirely.

According to one embodiment referred to herein as the best case for ease of explanation it may be assumed that 10 of order were deleted order was deleted or 10 of order were deleted they would each give the same result . Then order e.g. the trader s order would advance in the order queue by 10. shows what order queue might look like under the best case scenario given these example facts. Note that it is not necessary to distinguish between orders in the order queue . For example shows that 50 is ahead of order instead of showing the actual number of orders ahead of order as shown in . Sometimes a trader may only be concerned about the actual quantity ahead of his or her order and he or she might not be so concerned about the actual number of orders in front of them. Alternatively the orders could be distinguished based on an approximation using one of the approaches given in the above incorporated patent application.

Referring to the worst case scenario which was described in the previous sections of this application it may be assumed that order was deleted or that 10 of order were deleted they would each give the same result . Then order would stay in the same position in the order queue . shows what order queue might look like in this example. As a result 25 lots are shown after order . Order however has remained in the same queue position.

According to yet another embodiment which usually provides a result in between the best case and the worst case scenario referred to herein as the middle case for ease of explanation an algorithm of choice may be used to determine the position of order . Then an indicator could be displayed to the trader that indicates where order might be in the order queue based on the algorithm and current market trends for instance. For example one algorithm might split the difference between the results found using the best and worst approaches. The best case approach estimated that 50 is in front of order and 35 is in back. The worst case approach estimated that 60 is in front of order and 25 is in back. The middle case approach may split the difference such that 55 is in front of order and 30 is in back. shows what order queue might look like using the middle case approach.

Yet another algorithm might use statistics and historical data to determine the likelihood of why the quantity has been reduced. For example historical data might show that in this particular market traders tend to delete full orders when they know that they are near the last in the order queue. Using this data and the probability of it occurring again the algorithm might choose something similar to the worst case scenario where the order position has not changed because the last order was probably deleted. In other words the algorithm might split the difference between the best case and the worst case but it might weigh the order position more towards one approach over another.

Information regarding the trader s estimated order position whether the approach used was the best case the worst case or the middle case may be displayed in any particular fashion. It is also possible to display information relating to the combination of best case worst case and or the middle case or a range of possibilities. For example if so desired the estimation from both of the best case and the worst case order positions could be displayed to the trader. shows a graphically illustrated trader s order queue that displays the best case and worst case order positions in the same order queue. Recall that in the best case e.g. referring to there was 50 in front of order and 35 behind order . Referring to the order queue similarly shows 50 in front of order and 35 behind order . Recall that in the worst case e.g. referring to there was 60 in front of order and 25 behind order . Referring again to the order queue similarly shows 60 in front of order and 35 behind order . For sake of illustration instead of showing the order estimation position graphically the quantity ahead of the order best can be displayed such as 60 and the quantity ahead of the order worst can be displayed such as 50. 

Traders may often want to characterize a market to the best of their abilities so that they can make more informed and desirable trades. To do this the preferred embodiments can be used to analyze an exchange provided data feed and based on the analysis an estimate of the trader s order position at an exchange can be determined. Then the trader can concentrate on other things and not necessarily have to spend his or her own time guessing where his or her order is in the exchange order queue. An additional advantage of the preferred embodiments lies within its ability to display and represent an order queue for a tradeable object at a given price level in a numerical manner a graphical manner or both a numerical and graphical manner. One skilled in the art would recognize these advantage and the many other advantages of knowing the position of a trader s orders in an order queue.

It should be understood that the programs processes methods and apparatus described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computer or network apparatus hardware or software unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computer apparatus may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. While various elements of the preferred embodiments have been described as being implemented in software in other embodiments hardware or firmware implementations may alternatively be used and vice versa.

In view of the wide variety of embodiments to which the principles of the present invention can be applied it should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are examples only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention. For example the steps of the flow diagrams may be taken in sequences other than those described and more fewer or other elements may be used in the block diagrams.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Thus all variations that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

