---

title: Method and apparatus for optimized object searching
abstract: Apparatus and methods are described herein for optimizing an object search. A communications device may be configured to initiate a request for a data set. The communications device may transmit its current location to a server, for example, which may return a data set including data representing each of one or more objects that may be located within a first search area proximate to the current location of the communications device. The communications device may then perform a search for an object of interest by comparing the data representing each of the one or more objects in the data set to data representing the object of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264500&OS=09264500&RS=09264500
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09264500
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120612
---
This application relates generally to object searching and more particularly to communications device based object searching using location.

As the use of mobile devices for everyday tasks including shopping increases developers are deploying high quality shopping applications to support shoppers while shopping. For example a user may wish to retrieve additional information about an object of interest via a communications device such as a mobile communications device. In a typical object search method the communications device can transmit a search request to a remote device such as a server and the remote device can perform the search and return the desired information to the communications device. Performing such a search locally on the communications device is typically not feasible due to the potentially large amounts of data required for completing a search. That is due to limited resources available on typical mobile communications devices it is not feasible to store the large amounts of data used in object searching.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with some aspects a method is described herein for optimizing object searching on a communications device. The method may include initiating a request for a first data set. The method may also include transmitting a location of the communications device. In addition the method may include receiving at the communications device the first data set the first data set including data representing each of one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects a computer program product is described herein. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium that includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to initiate a request for a first data set. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction that causes the computer to transmit a location of the communications device. In addition the computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction that causes the computer to receive at the communications device the first data set. The first data set includes data representing each of one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus is described herein that includes means for initiating a request for a first data set. The apparatus may also include means for transmitting a location of the communications device. In addition the apparatus may include means for receiving at the communications device the first data set. The first data set includes data representing each of one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus for optimizing object searching on a communications device is described herein. The apparatus may include at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor. The at least one processor may be configured to initiate a request for a first data set. The at least one processor may also be configured to transmit a location of the communications device. In addition the at least one processor may be configured to receive at the communications device the first data set. The first data set includes data representing each of one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects a method for providing an optimized data set is described herein. The method may include receiving a request for a first data set. The method may also include receiving an indication of a location of a communications device associated with the request for the first data set. The method may also include determining one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device. Additionally the method may include generating the first data set. The first data set includes data representing each of the one or more objects within the first search area and transmitting the first data set to the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects a computer program product is described herein. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium that includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive a request for a first data set and at least one instruction for causing the computer to receive an indication of a location of a communications device associated with the request for the first data set. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction that causes the computer to determine one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device. The computer readable medium may also include at least one instruction that causes the computer to generate the first data set. The first data set includes data representing each of the one or more objects within the first search area and at least one instruction that causes the computer to transmit the first data set to the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus is described herein that includes means for receiving a request for a first data set and means for receiving an indication of a location of a communications device associated with the request for the first data set. The apparatus may also include means for determining one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device. Additionally the apparatus may include means for generating the first set including data representing each of the one or more objects within the first search area and means for transmitting the first data set to the communications device.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus for providing an optimized data set is described herein. The apparatus may include at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor. The at least one processor may be configured to receive a request for a first data set and to receive an indication of a location of a communications device associated with the request for the first data set. The at least one processor may also be configured to determine one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device. The at least one processor may also be configured to generate the first data set including data representing each of the one or more objects within the first search area and to transmit the first data set to the communications device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter described in detail and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

Apparatus and methods are described herein for optimizing an object search. The object search may be for example a visual search for information about an object of interest. While examples of visual searches are described herein the described methods and apparatus are equally applicable to non visual based searching such as for example text based searching audio based searching etc. A communications device may be configured to capture an image of an object of interest. The communications device may transmit its current location to a server for example which may return a data set including data representing each of one or more objects that may be located proximate to the current location of the communications device. The communications device may then efficiently perform a search for the object of interest by comparing the data representing each of the objects in the data set to data representing the object of interest. In the case of visual searching for example the data representing each of the one or more objects in the data set may include a visual representation of each object such as an image. The communications device may be configured to compare the image of the object of interest to each visual representation in the data set to find a match. By using location as a filter the communications device can perform the search locally as only data representing objects within a selected proximity of the communications devices is stored on the communications device.

Search component may be configured to initiate a search for an object of interest. For example if a user of communications device is in a retail store and would like to obtain more information about an object of interest the user may capture an image of the object. Search component may be configured to retrieve the location of communications device from location determining component and to forward the location to search component associated with server as shown at along with a request for a data set comprising data representing each of one or more objects located proximate to the communications device based on the location of the communications device as shown at . Search component may be configured to receive the data set and compare data representing the object of interest e.g. an image of the object in the case of a visual search to the data representing each of the one or more objects in the data set to find a match. The first data set comprises data representing one or more objects within a first search area that is less than the entire search space available to server . In some aspects a match may not be found in a first data set received by search component . For example in a retail store an object may not be placed in its designated location such as a particular aisle. As such the first data set may not include data related to the misplaced object when the first search area does not include the designated location of the misplaced object. Search component may be configured to request one or more additional data sets. The one or more additional data sets may include objects in a larger or different search area than the first data set received by search component . For example in the case of a retail store the additional data sets may include more or different aisles within the store

In accordance with some aspects search component may be configured to receive a first data set such as data set including data representing each of one or more objects located proximate to the communications device before a specific search is initiated. For example search component may be configured to automatically request a first data set upon crossing a geofence set up in a location scanning a tag associated with a location etc. In some aspects the first data set may be updated automatically as the communications device moves to other locations. A user of communications device may later decide to initiate a search for a specific object. For example the communications device may initiate a visual search by capturing an image of an object of interest. Because the first data set specific to the location of the communications device has already been received by the communications device the local search can begin without further communications with the server.

In some aspects in addition to transmitting a location associated with communications device search component may also forward an accuracy value associated with the location fix. Different location determining technologies may produce location fixes having different accuracy levels. By providing an accuracy value server and search component may determine an appropriate search area based on the accuracy of the fix. For example a larger search area may be required for a less accurate location fix while a smaller search area may be all that is needed for a more accurate fix.

Search component associated with server may be configured to receive a request shown at from communications device for a data set representing objects proximate to communications device . In some aspects communications device via search component can submit its location as a set of latitude longitude coordinates. Search component may be configured to access one or more databases which store object information for the plurality of objects in a location. For example where the location is a retail store database may store product information for hundreds of thousands of products located in the store. Database may retrieve correlate and store multiple types of information such as for example point of interest data product catalog data planogram data and space planning data . Point of interest data may represent various places and their location. Product catalog data may represent a list of objects in a location such as products in a retail store. Planogram data may include product layout information while space planning data may include latitude longitude coordinates associated with the location of the store. Search component uses the location provided by communications device to narrow down the number of objects to provide for searching. In accordance with some aspects the data sets submitted by the server to communications device such as data set may include data shown as Data A Data B etc. representing each of the one or more objects in the data set the data including one or more of a visual representation of each object a universal product code UPC or stock keeping unit SKU associated with each object a link to additional data associated with each object or any other information suitable for determining the identity of an object.

Communications device further includes a memory such as for storing data used herein and or local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Applications may include for example one or more object matching applications.

Further communications device may include a communications component that provides means for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on communications device as well as between communications device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to communications device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices such as server .

Additionally communications device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor . In some aspects data store may be located within memory .

Communications device may additionally include a user interface component operable to receive inputs or serving as an application programming interface API and may be further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. User interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component a still camera a video camera an audio recorder and or any other mechanism capable of receiving an input or any combination thereof. Further user interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output or any combination thereof. Communications device may also include location determining component and search component described above with respect to .

Turning now to server is shown in greater detail. Server may include a processor memory communications component data store and user interface . These components operate in a manner similar to the corresponding components of communications device and further description will not be provided. Server may also include search component described in more detail above with respect to .

As shown at a location of the communications device may be determined and transmitted in addition to the request for the first data set. For example where the request has been initiated passively the location of the communications device may be determined based on the location of the geofence or other marker triggering initiation of the request. In other aspects when the request is actively selected a location of the communications device may be determined for example by a GPS or other navigational component associated with the device. In some aspects an accuracy associated with the location may also be submitted. As shown at the communications device may receive the first data set comprising data representing each of one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the determined location. The first data set may include data associated with each object including for example a visual representation of the object a UPC and or SKU associated with the object links to additional information associated with the object etc. In some aspects communications device may use the first data set to compare the data representing each object in the first data set to data representing an object of interest in order to determine a match for the object of interest. For example an object search may be initiated by obtaining an image related to an object of interest. The image related to the object of interest may be compared to the data in the first data set to determine a match. The image related to the object of interest may be a 3 D image of the object a 2 D representation of a barcode or quick reference QR code associated with the object etc. Additional requests for additional data sets may be transmitted if a match cannot be found in the first data set or a subsequent data set.

Referring to an apparatus that optimizes object searching can reside at least partially within communications device according to one aspect. It is to be appreciated that apparatus is represented as including functional blocks which can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . As such apparatus includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include means for initiating a request for a first data set Block . For example in an aspect the means can include search component communications component and or processor . Logical grouping can include means for transmitting a location of the communications device Block . For example in an aspect the means can include location determining component communications component and or or processor . Further logical grouping can include means for receiving the first data set the first data set including data representing one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the communications device Block . In an aspect the means may include search component communications component and or processor .

Additionally apparatus can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with blocks . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of blocks can exist within memory . In an aspect for example memory may be the same as or similar to memory or data store .

Referring now to an apparatus that provides an optimized data set can reside at least partially within server according to one aspect. It is to be appreciated that apparatus is represented as including functional blocks which can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . As such apparatus includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include means for receiving a request for a first data set Block . For example in an aspect the means can include search component communications component and or processor . Logical grouping can include means for receiving an indication of a location of a communications device associated with the request for the first data set Block . For example in an aspect the means may include search component communications component and or processor . Logical grouping can also include means for determining one or more objects within a first search area proximate to the location of the communications device Block . For example in an aspect the means can include search component communications component and or processor . Further logical grouping can include means for generating the first data set including data representing each of the one or more objects within the first search area Block . In an aspect the means may include search component and or processor . Also logical grouping can include means for transmitting the first data set to the communications device Block . In an aspect the means may include search component communications component and or processor .

Additionally apparatus can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with blocks . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of blocks can exist within memory . In an aspect for example memory may be the same as or similar to memory or data store .

In this application the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communications device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the operations and or actions described above.

Further the operations and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the operations and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or implementations it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or implementations as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or implementations may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or implementation may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or implementation unless stated otherwise.

