---

title: Photoelectric conversion apparatus and photoelectric conversion system having the apparatus
abstract: In order to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus, which is an apparatus excellent in reading speed, high S/N, high tone level, and low cost, the photoelectric conversion apparatus has a photoelectric conversion circuit section comprising a plurality of photoelectric conversion elements, switching elements, matrix signal wires, and gate drive wires arranged on a same substrate in order to output parallel signals, a driving circuit section for applying a driving signal to the gate drive wire, and a reading circuit section for converting the parallel signals transferred through the matrix signal wires to serial signals to output them, wherein the reading circuit section comprises at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires, transfer switches for transferring output signals from the respective matrix signal wires, output through each amplifier, reading capacitors, and reading switches for successively reading the signals out of the reading capacitors in the form of serial signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08488037&OS=08488037&RS=08488037
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08488037
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120420
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 615 345 filed Nov. 10 2009 which was a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 620 997 filed Jan. 8 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 643 077 dated Jan. 5 2010 which was a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 606 418 filed Jun. 26 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 440 017 dated Oct. 21 2008 which was a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 815 532 filed Mar. 12 1997 now abandoned U.S. Publication No. 2001 0012070 which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as if fully set forth herein and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 based on Japanese Priority Application No. 8 055880 filed Mar. 13 1996 and Japanese Priority Application No. 9 051701 filed Mar. 6 1997 which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to a photoelectric conversion apparatus and a photoelectric conversion system having the apparatus. More particularly the invention relates to a photoelectric conversion apparatus applicable to X ray detectors for non destructive examination such as medical care or internal examination to image input units for business machines such as digital copiers electronic blackboards and facsimile machines and so on and also relates to a system having the apparatus.

Presently the majority of X ray image pickup apparatus used for medical diagnosis employs a so called film method in which X rays are radiated to a human body then the X rays transmitted by the human body irradiate a fluorescent member for converting X rays to visible light and a film is exposed to fluorescence therefrom.

However not only in Japan going into aging society but also in the world strong desires exist to improve the diagnostic efficiency in hospitals and to have higher accuracy medical equipment. Even under such circumstances the X ray image pickup apparatus of the conventional film method requires a lot of time because of intervention of a development step of film before a doctor obtains a patient s X ray image. In some incidents where the patient moves during X ray photography and where exposure is misadjusted photography must be carried out again. These are factors to impede an improvement in the efficiency of diagnosis and treatment in hospitals and also force a great load on the patient which would be great hindrance against development to new medical society in future.

The demand for digitization of X ray image information is increasing in the medical field these years. Once digitization is achieved the doctor can know the patient s X ray image information at optimum angles in real time and the X ray image information obtained can be recorded and managed using a medium such as a magneto optical disk. Utilizing facsimile or another communication method or the like the patient s X ray image information can be sent within a short time to any hospital in the world.

In the non destructive examination typified by examination of the inside of an object such as a building body it is not permissible to repeat setting of various devices for X ray photography or to repeat photography of necessary parts either. In the case of the film method however whether photography of necessary parts is completed cannot be found before the end of development in such examination either. Since expert s judgment is made after completion of development of film it is not possible for the expert to give an instruction of photography at another in situ angle or an instruction of treatment in situ when necessary.

Accordingly a demand is also high for acquisition of X ray image information of desired parts in real time in this field.

Then recently proposed in order to meet the demand for digitization of X ray image information are X ray image pickup devices using CCD solid state image sensing devices or amorphous silicon photoelectric conversion elements instead of the film.

In each of T T T T . . . T designates a switching element each of S S S S . . . S a photoelectric conversion element SR a shift register SR a shift register each of G G G a gate drive wire each of M M M a signal wire each of C C C an accumulating capacitors e.g. equivalent additional capacitors added to a wiring each of RES RES RES a reset switch CRES a voltage pulse input section for reset OP an operational amplifier Ca an accumulated capacitance each of U U U a switching element for read each of N N N a gate drive wire for switching element U to U respectively numeral a photoelectric conversion circuit section and numeral a reading circuit section.

In light hv incident to photoelectric conversion elements S to S is photoelectrically converted by the photoelectric conversion elements S to S to charges of photoelectric conversion signals which are accumulated in interelectrode capacitances of the respective photoelectric conversion elements S to S . These photoelectric conversion signals pass through switching elements T to T and signal wire M to M to become parallel voltage outputs. Further they are converted to serial signals by the reading switch circuit section to be taken out to the outside.

In the structural example of the photoelectric conversion apparatus of the photoelectric conversion elements of 9 bit pixels in total are separated in three rows each including three bits. The above stated operation is carried out in row units in order.

Optical information hv input to the photoelectric conversion elements Sl to S in the first row is photoelectrically converted to signal charges which are accumulated in interelectrode capacitors in the respective photoelectric conversion elements of S to S . After a lapse of constant accumulation time the shift register SR gives a first voltage pulse for transfer to the gate driving wire G during a period of time T to switch the switching elements T to T on. This causes the signal charges accumulated in the respective interelectrode capacitors S to S in the photoelectric conversion elements S to S to be transferred through the respective signal wires M to M to load capacitances C to C whereby potentials V to V of the respective load capacitances C to C are raised by a charge amount of signal transfer operation .

Subsequently the shift register SR successively gives voltage pulses to gate driving wires N to N to switch reading switches U to U on in order thereby converting the signals of the first row having been transferred to the load capacitances C to C to serial signals and after impedance transformation by the voltage follower type operational amplifier OP the signal of three pixels Vout is output to the outside of the photoelectric conversion apparatus during a period of time T reading operation .

After that a voltage pulse CRES for reset is applied to reset switches RES to RES during a period of time T to reset the load capacitances C to C thereby getting ready for the reading operation of the next row reset operation .

Then the shift register SR successively drives the gate driving wires G G thereby outputting data of the all pixels of the photoelectric conversion elements S to S in time series.

Since the photoelectric conversion apparatus of an area type in which photosensors are arrayed two dimensionally is generally arranged to successively perform the operations of transfer reading and reset in row units as described above the image signals from the photoelectric conversion apparatus are intermittently output as shown by Vout in . Namely the time necessary for reading one row is T T T and in the case of the two dimensional photoelectric conversion apparatus of 3 3 shown in the time of three times thereof is necessary for reading the all bits. For example the size of the photoelectric conversion apparatus portion of the medical X ray image pickup apparatus is said to be approximately 40 cm 40 cm necessary for the example of the X ray image pickup apparatus for photographing the lung part. Supposing it is formed in pixel pitch of 100 m the total pixel number will be as huge as 4000 4000 16 million pixels. Simply assuming that the structure shown in is used to perform the reading operation the time of 4000 T T T is necessary. Actually the time necessary for T becomes longer and therefore a normal arrangement is provided with a plurality of N reading circuit sections to permit parallel reading scanning of N bits thereby reading the all pixels in the time of 4000 T T T N .

However in the photoelectric conversion apparatus for successively performing the operations of from transfer through reading to reset even with employing such structure the time necessary for reading pixels in one line 4000 N pixels needs to include the transfer time T and reset time T every time of reading the pixels in each line and therefore the apparatus has a problem that the scanning time of photoelectric conversion especially with a lot of pixels was sometimes longer than expected. Especially when the switching elements T to T are constructed of amorphous silicon hereinafter referred to as a Si TFTs Thin Film Transistors highly advantageous in respect of cost they are not sufficient in switching performance as compared with switch elements made of single crystal silicon which leaves a subject of an improvement in achieving higher speed reading of photoelectric conversion apparatus.

The load capacitors are illustrated as capacitance elements of reading capacitors C to C in but practically without a need for provision of separate elements they are normally comprised of the interelectrode capacitances Cgs formed by the gate electrodes of the switching elements T to T and the electrodes on the side of signal wires M to M. For example when the signal charge of S in the first row is transferred the capacitance of the load capacitor reading capacitor C is the sum of Cgs of the switching elements T T and T parasitic on the signal wire M. Similarly for example when the signal charge of S in the second row is transferred the capacitance of C is the sum of Cgs of the switching elements T T and T parasitic on the signal wire M. In summary whenever a signal charge of any photoelectric conversion element is transferred the load capacitor C to C is given by addition of three capacitances of Cgs of the switching elements. Similarly when the two dimensional photoelectric conversion apparatus is constructed of 4000 4000 pixels the load capacitance of each signal line in the matrix will have the capacitance of Cgs 4000. On the other hand when the signal charges of the load capacitances are converted to serial signals by the switching elements U to U in the reading circuit section each signal charge is virtually transferred to the input capacitance Ca in parasitic to the input of the analog operational amplifier OP amp OP. When the transfer switching elements are made of a Si impedance transformation is achieved with little reducing the signal potential of the load capacitance because the load capacitance of Cgs 4000 Ca.

Also there is a possibility of raising a problem that upon performing the transfer operation from the load capacitor C to C to the operational amp OP side through the switching element U to U controlled by the shift register SR the thermal noise occurring due to thermal agitation of carriers in the switching elements might degrade S N of the photoelectric conversion apparatus in some cases. The effective value Vj of this thermal noise voltage is given generally by 4 Vrms . Here K is the Boltzmann constant 1.38 10 J K T is an absolute temperature K and B is the frequency bandwidth Hz of system. Further R is a resistance in the case of the thermal noise occurring in a resistor. In the case of this system it may be considered as ON resistance of the switching elements.

Letting CL be the matrix side capacitance Cgs 4000 and Ca be the input capacitance on the operational amp OP side the frequency bandwidth B can be approximated as B 1 4R CL Ca in the thermal noise voltage Vj 4KTRB Vrms and therefore 

Incidentally if it is expressed as a charge amount Qj CV KT CL Ca Vrms . Namely the thermal noise voltage Vj occurring in such a system is determined only by the Boltzmann constant K temperature T and capacitance C CL Ca which is normally called KTC noise. Unless otherwise stated the thermal noise voltage will be called KTC noise hereinafter. This KTC noise is given in the simplified form of KT CL Ca Vrms . Since CL Ca the KTC noise is determined nearly by kT Ca . The noise of this type can be reduced by increasing Ca but there is limitation on increase in the capacitance formed in an Integrated circuit IC .

Similarly the KTC noise also occurs upon resetting the load capacitances to the reset potential by the reset switches RES to RES which raises the problem of reduction in S N of the photoelectric conversion apparatus. This KTC noise upon reset is given by KT CL V . The KTC noise occurring upon transfer and the KTC noise occurring upon reset appears as random noise of photoelectric conversion apparatus. Especially if high definition and high gradation level information is desired to obtain as in the medical X ray image pickup apparatus the apparatus will necessitate the photoelectric conversion apparatus with higher S N ratios than the business machines such as copiers or electronic blackboards and the KTC noise could be a big problem.

In the photoelectric conversion circuit section letting CS be the interelectrode capacitance of single photoelectric conversion element CL be the load capacitance in the matrix signal wire and Q be a total amount of accumulated signal charge after photoelectrically converted by the photoelectric conversion element the signal potential V of the load capacitance CL on the matrix signal wire after transfer by the transfer switching element is given by V Q CS CL . Since single interelectrode capacitance CS is much smaller than the load capacitance CL composed of the 4000 interelectrode capacitances Cgs it is practically approximated by V Q CL. When the switching elements having the interelectrode capacitance Cgs are made of an a Si semiconductor thin film individual differences will appear in capacitance values of load capacitance CL among apparatus because of dispersion in film thickness on fabrication of thin film which would raise a problem that apparatus with high output and apparatus with low output are manufactured. In order to overcome it upon constructing the system such a countermeasure is taken as to add a general purpose OP amp to adjust the gain but the above example necessitates N general purpose amplifiers which will raise the cost of apparatus when also taking the adjustment process into consideration.

Also the N reading circuit sections ICs especially in the equipment requiring high S N ratios like the medical equipment are not preferred to be located with long extension of the signal wires also in respect of an anti noise property but the necessary circuits are desired to be mounted near the photoelectric conversion circuit section. However if many N ICs are provided heat generation thereof will increase the temperature of the photoelectric conversion circuit section in some cases. Especially when the switching elements are amorphous silicon TFTs it is said that the dark current during OFF will increase and there is a possibility of raising another problem that the heat generation of ICs could increase fixed pattern noise of photoelectric conversion apparatus.

For example when the photoelectric conversion apparatus portion of the medical X ray image pickup apparatus is constructed of a solid state image sensing apparatus the noise quantity required for the whole apparatus including the photoelectric conversion elements is said to be 1 10000 or less against the dynamic range of signal if the image quality higher than that of the film method is desired to achieve. Namely the resolution of 14 or more bits is required as performance of the A D converter necessary for achieving the digitization of X ray image information. A D converters of 16 bits are commercially available presently but it is a present status that the conversion speed decreases with increase of bit number and to date there has been and is no high speed A D converter of 14 or more bits that can be used practically and actually in the X ray image pickup apparatus having the photoelectric conversion apparatus of 4000 4000 pixels as described above.

An object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus that can reduce the read scanning time so as to enable high speed reading and also to provide a system having the apparatus.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus that can perform signal reading at high S N with little generation of thermal noise KTC noise and also to provide a system having the apparatus.

An additional object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus that can obtain good image information without density unevenness or unnecessary stripes reduced in fixed pattern noise and also to provide a system having the apparatus.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus that can obtain image information excellent in tone level and also to provide a system having the apparatus.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus that can be corrected readily for nonuniformity of characteristic such as one caused by manufacturing dispersion of photoelectric conversion element or the like thereby enabling further promotion of cost reduction and also to provide a system having the apparatus.

An object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion apparatus having a photoelectric conversion circuit section comprising a plurality of photoelectric conversion elements switching elements matrix signal wires and gate drive wires arranged on a same substrate in order to output parallel signals a driving circuit section for applying a driving signal to said gate drive wire and a reading circuit section for converting the parallel signals transferred through said matrix signal wires to serial signals to output the serial signals 

wherein said reading circuit section comprises at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of said matrix signal wires transfer switches for transferring output signals from said respective matrix signal wires output through each said analog operational amplifier reading capacitors for accumulating said output signals transferred and reading switches for successively reading signals out of said reading capacitors in the form of serial signals.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a photoelectric conversion system having at least a photoelectric conversion apparatus having a photoelectric conversion circuit section comprising a plurality of photoelectric conversion elements switching elements matrix signal wires and gate drive wires arranged on a same substrate in order to output parallel signals a driving circuit section for applying a driving signal to said gate drive wire and a reading circuit section for converting the parallel signals transferred through said matrix signal wires to serial signals to output the serial signals and a light source 

wherein said reading circuit section of said photoelectric conversion apparatus comprises at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of said matrix signal wires transfer switches for transferring output signals from said respective matrix signal wires output through each said analog operational amplifier reading capacitors for accumulating said output signals transferred and reading switches for successively reading signals out of said reading capacitors in the form of serial signals.

For solving the above various problems for example a photoelectric conversion apparatus of the present invention has a photoelectric conversion circuit section comprising a plurality of photoelectric conversion elements switching elements matrix signal wires and gate drive wires arranged on a same substrate in order to output parallel signals a driving circuit section for applying a driving signal to said gate drive wire and a reading circuit section for converting the parallel signals transferred through said matrix signal wires to serial signals to output them wherein said reading circuit section comprises at least one analog operational amplifier connected in cascade connection with each of said matrix signal wires transfer switches for transferring output signals from said respective matrix signal wires output through the analog operational amplifiers reading capacitors for accumulating said output signals transferred and reading switches for successively reading signals out of said reading capacitors in the form of serial signals.

Also it is preferable that in said reading circuit section said analog operational amplifier of first stage connected to each of the matrix signal wires have a noise voltage density Vn V square root over Hz converted at an input terminal portion thereof and a frequency band B Hz enough to amplify a signal from said photoelectric conversion circuit section and satisfy the relation of Vn square root over B Tn against thermal noise effective voltage Tn Vrms of said switching element at the input terminal portion of said analog operational amplifier occurring when the switching element in said photoelectric conversion circuit section is turned on.

Further it is preferable that in said reading circuit section a capacitor element for letting only alternating current components pass be connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of said analog operational amplifier connected with each of said matrix signal wires and that a reset switch for DC restoration of said capacitor element be provided.

Also it is preferable that in said reading circuit section the at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires be provided with a function to change an amplification factor thereof by a signal from the outside.

In addition it is preferable that in said reading circuit section the analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires be provided with a function to reduce a consumption electric current thereof by a signal from the outside.

Also it is preferable that an A D conversion circuit section for converting an analog signal to a digital signal be connected to said reading circuit section that this A D conversion circuit section comprise N N is an integer of not less than 2 operational amplifiers for amplifying a signal from said reading circuit section and N A D converters of M bits that a ratio of amplification factors G G . . . GN of said N operational amplifiers be set to G G . . . GN 2 2 . . . 2that outputs from said N operational amplifiers each be input to said N A D converters and that an output of one A D converter be selected out of said N A D converters in accordance with an output level of an analog signal from said reading circuit section and be output as a digital value of N M 1 bits.

Also the foregoing reading circuit section is configured preferably in such an arrangement that near the first analog operational amplifier amp connected to each of the matrix signal wires there is provided another analog operational amplifier amp the amp is constructed as a non inverting amplifier having an amplification factor of not less than 1 the amp is constructed as a buffer amplifier having an amplification factor of 1 and a reference potential to be a reference of operation of the amp is supplied from an output terminal of the amp .

Also the reading circuit section is configured preferably in such an arrangement that a capacitor element for passing only ac components is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires a reset switch for dc restoration of the capacitor element is provided and a resistance element is interposed between the capacitor element and the reset switch.

Also the reading circuit section is configured preferably in such an arrangement that a capacitor element for passing only ac components is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires a reset switch for dc restoration of the capacitor element is provided a resistance element is interposed between the capacitor element and the reset switch and there is provided a function for varying an on off time of the reset switch by a signal from the outside.

Also the reading circuit section is configured preferably in such an arrangement that a capacitor element for passing only ac components is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires a reset switch for dc restoration of the capacitor element is provided and a low pass filter circuit is connected to a terminal out of those of the capacitor element opposite to a terminal connected to the output of the analog operational amplifier.

Also the reading circuit section is configured preferably in such an arrangement that the at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires has a function to vary a slew rate thereof by a signal from the outside.

Further it is preferable that the photoelectric conversion elements and switching elements in said photoelectric conversion circuit section be made using an amorphous silicon semiconductor as a semiconductor material.

Also the apparatus may be configured in such an arrangement that each of the photoelectric conversion elements is comprised of from the insulating substrate side a first metal thin film layer first electroconductive layer as a lower electrode an amorphous silicon nitride insulating layer a SiNx for preventing passage of electron carriers and hole carriers a hydrogenated amorphous silicon photoelectric conversion layer a Si H as a semiconductor layer an n type injection preventing layer for preventing injection of hole carriers and a transparent electroconductive layer or a second metal thin film layer located in a part on the injection preventing layer as an upper electrode second electroconductive layer that each of the switching elements thin film transistors is comprised of from the insulating substrate side a first metal thin film layer as a lower gate electrode a gate insulating layer a SiNx of amorphous silicon nitride a hydrogenated amorphous silicon semiconductor layer a Si H an n type ohmic contact layer and a transparent electroconductive layer or a second metal thin film layer as a source or drain electrode that the photoelectric conversion elements and the switching elements are formed on the same insulating substrate that in a refresh mode an electric field is applied to the photoelectric conversion elements in such a direction as to guide hole carriers from the photoelectric conversion layer to the second metal thin film layer that in a photoelectric conversion mode an electric field is applied to the photoelectric conversion elements in such a direction as to keep carriers generated by light incident to the photoelectric conversion layer staying in the photoelectric conversion layer and as to guide electron carriers to the second metal thin film layer and that the photoelectric conversion mode is arranged to detect as a light signal the hole carriers accumulated in the photoelectric conversion layer or the electron carriers guided to the second metal thin film layer.

Also the apparatus may be configured in such an arrangement that the photoelectric conversion elements are divided into a plurality of groups the photoelectric conversion elements in each group can be set in the refresh mode independently of the other groups and the photoelectric conversion elements in each group can be set in the photoelectric conversion mode independently of the other groups.

It is preferable to provide a grid between the light source and the photoelectric conversion apparatus.

According to the present invention row scanning can be performed almost within only the reading time in reading scanning of each row as compared with the operation time in the case of one set including the sequence of from transfer through reading to reset thus enabling great increase in the reading speed of the photoelectric conversion apparatus.

Also in said reading circuit section the first stage analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires has a noise voltage density Vn V square root over Hz converted at an input terminal portion thereof and a frequency band B Hz enough to amplify a signal from said photoelectric conversion circuit section and satisfies the relation of Vn square root over B Tn against thermal noise effective voltage Tn Vrms of said switching element at the input terminal portion of said analog operational amplifier occurring when the switching element in said photoelectric conversion circuit section is turned on which can reduce the drop of S N due to the KTC noise upon transfer.

Further in said reading circuit section a capacitor element for letting only alternating current components pass is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected in cascade connection with each of the matrix signal wires and a reset switch for DC restoration of the capacitor element is provided which can reduce the drop of S N due to the KTC noise upon reset. Further the reduction in the drop of S N due to those KTC noise will result in the operational effect of achieving high quality image information with less random noise.

Also in said reading circuit section the analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires is provided with a function to reduce a consumption electric current thereof by a signal from the outside which can reduce the dark current upon OFF of the transfer switching elements due to heat generation of IC which can reduce the fixed pattern noise and which can achieve images without density unevenness and without stripes in the image plane.

In addition according to the present invention an output of one A D converter is selected out of the N A D converters in accordance with an output level of an analog signal from the reading circuit section and is output as a digital value of N M 1 bits which enables high resolution and high speed A D conversion of photoelectric conversion signals which achieves a high tone level photoelectric conversion apparatus and which can provide a high performance X ray image pickup apparatus using it.

Further the photoelectric conversion elements and switching elements in said photoelectric conversion circuit section are made of the amorphous silicon semiconductor material which permits a large area photoelectric conversion apparatus to be provided cheaply. In addition when in said reading circuit section the at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires is provided with the function capable of controlling the amplification factor by a signal from the outside it can compensate for the gain dispersion caused by the film thickness dispersion on fabrication of amorphous silicon semiconductor thin film easily and cheaply.

The reference potential of amp can be stabilized so as to obtain accurate photoelectric conversion signals and also enhance S N by configuring the reading circuit section in such an arrangement that near the first analog operational amplifier amp connected to each of the matrix signal wires there is provided another analog operational amplifier amp the amp is constructed as a non inverting amplifier having an amplification factor of not less than 1 the amp is constructed as a buffer amplifier having an amplification factor of 1 and a reference potential to be a reference of operation of the amp is supplied from an output terminal of the amp .

The low pass filter can be configured upon dc restoration so as to decrease the random noise of the analog operational amplifiers and also enhance S N by configuring the reading circuit section in such an arrangement that a capacitor element for passing only ac components is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires a reset switch for dc restoration of the capacitor element is provided and a resistance element is interposed between the capacitor element and the reset switch.

S N can be enhanced in a still image mode and the frame rate can be increased in a moving picture mode so as to improve operability furthermore by configuring the reading circuit section in such an arrangement that a capacitor element for passing only ac components is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires a reset switch for dc restoration of the capacitor element is provided a resistance element is interposed between the capacitor element and the reset switch and there is provided a function for varying an on off time of the reset switch by a signal from the outside.

The random noise of the analog operational amplifiers can be decreased so as to enhance S N by configuring the reading circuit section in such an arrangement that a capacitor element for passing only ac components is connected to midway of an output wire from an output terminal of the analog operational amplifier connected to each of the matrix signal wires a reset switch for dc restoration of the capacitor element is provided and a low pass filter circuit is connected to a terminal out of those of the capacitor element opposite to a terminal connected to the output of the analog operational amplifier.

The apparatus becomes advantageous in reading weak photoelectric conversion signals necessitating noise reduction by configuring the reading circuit section in such an arrangement that the at least one analog operational amplifier connected with each of the matrix signal wires has a function to vary a slew rate thereof by a signal from the outside.

The apparatus becomes easier to get ready for the moving picture mode by such an arrangement that each of the photoelectric conversion elements is comprised of from the insulating substrate side a first metal thin film layer first electroconductive layer as a lower electrode an amorphous silicon nitride insulating layer a SiNx for preventing passage of electron carriers and hole carriers a hydrogenated amorphous silicon photoelectric conversion layer a Si H as a semiconductor layer an n type injection preventing layer for preventing injection of hole carriers and a transparent electroconductive layer or a second metal thin film layer located in a part on the injection preventing layer as an upper electrode second electroconductive layer that each of the switching elements thin film transistors is comprised of from the insulating substrate side a first metal thin film layer as a lower gate electrode a gate insulating layer a SiNx of amorphous silicon nitride a hydrogenated amorphous silicon semiconductor layer a Si H an n type ohmic contact layer and a transparent electroconductive layer or a second metal thin film layer as a source or drain electrode that the photoelectric conversion elements and the switching elements are formed on the same insulating substrate that in a refresh mode an electric field is applied to the photoelectric conversion elements in such a direction as to guide hole carriers from the photoelectric conversion layer to the second metal thin film layer that in a photoelectric conversion mode an electric field is applied to the photoelectric conversion elements in such a direction as to keep carriers generated by light incident to the photoelectric conversion layer staying in the photoelectric conversion layer and as to guide electron carriers to the second metal thin film layer and that the photoelectric conversion mode is arranged to detect as a light signal the hole carriers accumulated in the photoelectric conversion layer or the electron carriers guided to the second metal thin film layer.

The frame rate can be increased substantially in the moving picture mode so as to obtain a lot of sequential images by such an arrangement that the photoelectric conversion elements are divided into a plurality of groups the photoelectric conversion elements in each group can be set in the refresh mode independently of the other groups and the photoelectric conversion elements in each group can be set in the photoelectric conversion mode independently of the other groups.

The contents of the present invention will be described in detail with embodiments thereof with reference to the drawings.

After that the transfer switches Snl to Sn in the reading circuit section are turned ON only during a period of time t by the SMPL pulse shown in to transfer the signals to the reading capacitors CL to CL. The signals in the reading capacitors CL to CL are subjected to impedance transformation by the respective buffer amplifiers B to B. After that the reading switches Sr to Sr are successively turned ON by shift pulses Sp to Sp from the shift register SR whereby the parallel signal charges having been transferred to the reading capacitors CL to CL are converted to serial signals to be read out. Supposing pulse widths of the shift pulses of Spl Sp Sp are determined to be Sp Sp Sp t the time necessary for this serial conversion read out is given by t 3. The serially converted signals are output from the final stage OP amp to be further digitized by the A D conversion circuit section .

Vout shown in indicates an analog signal before input to the A D conversion circuit section. As shown in the parallel signals of S to S in the first row that is the parallel signals of signal potentials on the matrix signal wires M to M are serially converted on the Vout signal in proportion to magnitudes of those signals. Finally the signal potentials of the matrix signal wires M to M are reset to the predetermined reset potential the GND potential through the reset switch elements RES to RES by turning the CRES pulse ON only during a period of time t thereby getting ready for next transfer of signal charges in the second row of the photoelectric conversion elements S to S . After that photoelectrically converted signals of the second row and the third row are repetitively read out in the same manner.

Here as seen from according to the present invention the two operations the reset operation of capacitances of the matrix signal wires M to M in the first row and the transfer operation by the gate pulse G for the second row photoelectric conversion elements S to S can be performed within the time range of t 3 necessary for the reading operation of signal charges of CL to CL in the first row. Namely the time necessary for reading of one row is t t t and this time can be set to be nearly equal to t 3 t. The capacitance formed in one of the matrix signal wires M to M is in the case of at most three times the interelectrode capacitance Cgs of the switching element connected to the photoelectric conversion element S to S . However as discussed above each row includes several hundred to several thousand bits in the case of construction of actual photoelectric conversion elements and therefore the capacitance value becomes very large as compared with the reading capacitor CL. In that case the time t necessary for transfer by the SMPL pulse is sufficiently determined to be about the time of several times the time constant determined by the product of the capacitance value of reading capacitor CL and the ON resistance value of the switch element Snx x 1 to 3 . If the reading circuit section is constructed of an integrated circuit IC formed on a substrate material of ordinary crystal silicon the operation can be carried out during the period of time t determined as a time sufficiently shorter than each time of t t or t 3. Namely the time necessary for reading the signal charges of the first row photoelectric conversion elements can be set to approximately t t t 3. This means that reading of one row in the aforementioned example required the time of the time t necessary for transfer from the photoelectric conversion elements to the matrix signal wires the time t 3 necessary for reading the signals of matrix signal wires out the time t necessary for resetting the capacitance components of matrix signal wires whereas the present invention permits one row to be read out for the time of the time t 3 necessary for reading the signals of matrix signal wires thus greatly decreasing the reading time of the photoelectric conversion apparatus.

Now explained is the method for forming the photoelectric conversion circuit section in the present invention. First chromium Cr is evaporated over the insulating substrate by sputtering or by resistance heating to form the first metal thin film layer approximately 500 thick it is patterned by photolithography and unnecessary areas are etched. This first metal thin film layer becomes the lower electrodes of photoelectric conversion elements and the gate electrodes of switching elements . Next by CVD a SiNx a Si H and N layer are successively deposited in the thicknesses of 3000 5000 and 1000 respectively in a same vacuum. These layers are insulating layer photoelectric conversion semiconductor layer hole injection preventing layer of the photoelectric conversion elements and also become gate insulating film semiconductor layer ohmic contact layer of the switching elements TFTs . Further they are also utilized as insulating layers at cross portions in between the first metal thin film layer and the second metal thin film layer . Without having to be limited to the above thicknesses the film thicknesses of the respective layers are optimally designed depending upon the voltage in use as a photoelectric conversion apparatus charge quantity of incident light to the light receiving surfaces of photoelectric conversion elements or the like. At least a SiNx is desirably 500 or more so as not to permit electrons and holes to pass and so as to well function as a gate insulating film of TFT . After deposition of each layer the areas to become contact holes see in are subjected to dry etching by RIE or CDE or the like and thereafter aluminum Al is deposited in the thickness of about 10000 as a second metal thin film layer by sputtering or by resistance heating. Further patterning is carried out by photolithography and unnecessary areas are etched. The second metal thin film layer becomes the upper electrodes of photoelectric conversion elements the source and drain electrodes of switching TFTs the other wires and so on. The upper and lower metal thin film layers are connected to each other at the contact hole portions at the same time as film formation of the second metal thin film layer . Further for forming the channel portions of TFTs parts between the source electrode and drain electrode are etched by RIE and thereafter unnecessary a SiNx layer a Si H layer and N layer are etched by RIE thereby separating the elements from each other. This forms the photoelectric conversion elements switching TFTs other wires and contact hole portions . Although the schematic cross sectional view of illustrates only two pixels it is needless to mention that a number of pixels are formed on the insulating substrate at the same time. Finally in order to improve resistance to humidity the elements and wires are coated with a passivation film protection film of SiNx. As described above the photoelectric conversion elements switching TFTs and wires are formed by the common first metal thin film layer a SiNx a Si H N layer and second metal thin film layer each deposited at the same time and only etching of each layer.

Using the process with the main material of amorphous silicon semiconductor as described above the photoelectric conversion elements switching elements gate driving wires and matrix signal wires can be fabricated at the same time on the same substrate thereby providing the large area photoelectric conversion circuit section easily and cheaply.

In general the amorphous silicon TFTs have lower mobility of electron as a material thereof than the switch elements of crystal silicon and thus have extremely large ON resistance. For example the ON resistance of TFT in the channel size W L 50 m 10 m fabricated by the above process will be very large as 8 M with application of the bias Vgs of 12 V. If the photoelectric conversion circuit section as shown in and is constructed at the pixel pitch 100 m using this TFT the capacitance components formed in the photoelectric conversion elements will be 2 to 3 pF and the time necessary for transfer from the photoelectric conversion elements to the matrix signal wires will be approximately 20 sec as a time constant . For sufficient transfer the time of several times the time constant is necessary. Supposing the time of 4 is set the pulse width of the driving gate pulse of TFT will be 80 sec .

If Cgs of one above TFT is about 0.05 pF and if the number of pixels in one row is 4000 the capacitance component formed in a single matrix signal wire is 4000200 pF . The ON resistance of the reset switch elements RES to RES in the reading circuit section shown in can be readily made in the range of about several hundred and several k if the reading circuit section is of IC crystal silicon and the time constant necessary for reset thereof is below 1 sec as long as the resistance components of wires can be ignored. However the passing line of the reset current in the reset operation flows via Cgs of TFT through the gate drive wire G G or G in for example . If the material for the gate drive wires is chromium and if the photoelectric conversion circuit section is constructed in the structure as shown in and the resistance value of the wires is expected to be high. If the wire width is made wider in order to decrease the resistance value the area occupied by the light receiving surface of the photoelectric conversion element against the pixel region of 100 m 100 m will decrease which will result in failing to ensure sufficient signal quantities if the film thickness of wire is made thicker the coverage property of the protection film will be lowered which will degrade the reliability. Accordingly the appropriate size on design is approximately the wire width 10 m and the film thickness of wire 1000 or so.

When chromium is used for the gate drive wires the sheet resistance thereof is approximately 2 and the wire length is 4000 pixels 100 m in the above example which is approximately 40 or more cm so that the resistance of wire can be even 80 k . In that case 1 sec is not sufficient for the time necessary for resetting the capacitance of about 200 pF formed in the matrix signal wire. In actual reset operation the circuit is a two dimensional distributed constant circuit and though cannot be expressed simply by the CR time constant the time of several times 200 pF 80 k 16 sec is necessitated for sufficient reset thus necessitating the time nearly equal to the width 80 sec of driving gate pulse.

If the reading circuit section IC to which the matrix signal wires for 4000 pixels are connected is composed of a single IC the size of the IC will be very large and the yield of the IC itself will be lowered. Also in the case of the single IC it takes a very long time for serial reading of data for one row 4000 pixels. Therefore the reading circuit section is divided into an appropriate number of segments N segments and the N segments are operated at the same time. For example N is so set as to achieve serial conversion in the time t t which is the sum of the transfer time t from the photoelectric conversion elements to the matrix signal wires and the reset time t of the matrix signal wires. In the case of the above example the transfer time t 80 sec the reset time t 80 sec 160 sec and when the conversion rate for serial conversion the pulse width t of Sp of shift register is 1.6 sec N 20 reading circuit sections capable of accepting inputs of 100 pixels need to be prepared.

Speaking with this example the time necessary for reading of one row was t t t 100 320 sec whereas in the present invention the time necessary for reading of one row is t 100 160 sec which means that the speed is substantially doubled.

If such high speed operation is not required in use of the photoelectric conversion apparatus the same reading speed as before can be used with setting of transfer time t and reset time t which enables more sufficient transfer and reset.

It is also easy to further shorten t in the reading circuit section than t 1.6 sec in the above example with use of ordinary ICs of crystal silicon. In this case since the time necessary for reading of one row is determined by ts t there is no change in the reading speed but the number N of ICs of the reading circuit sections can be decreased whereby cheaper photoelectric conversion apparatus can be provided.

As having been described above as compared with the operation time of transfer plus reading plus reset necessary and indispensable for reading scanning of each row in the conventional technology the present invention enables reading scanning of each row to be performed substantially in the time of only reading thereby greatly increasing the speed of reading of the photoelectric conversion apparatus.

In general the OP amps generate random voltage nature noise it is dominated by noise occurring in transistors incorporated especially in first stage transistors. For example if the first stage section is composed of a bipolar transistor it is said that the thermal noise occurring in the base resistance determines the noise quantity of OP amp. The noise quantity is normally expressed against unit bandwidth and the unit thereof is Volt square root over Hz . When the OP amps are used in the form of non inverting amplifiers as shown in the noise quantity is also multiplied by 1 R R in accordance with the frequency band to operate. In the following description the noise occurring in the OP amps will be considered to be a noise value before multiplied by the amplification factor i.e. equivalent input noise voltage which will be represented by Vn V square root over Hz .

In the present invention Vn of OP amps L to L shown in is set below a certain selected value. The certain selected value is the noise value due to the so called KTC noise occurring upon the transfer operation through the switching elements T to T in the photoelectric conversion circuit section . Namely noise quantities occurring in the first stage OP amp portions L to L in the reading circuit section are set to be not more than the KTC noise quantity occurring in the photoelectric conversion circuit section . Either noise is intrinsic noise potentially occurring on principle which cannot be made to be zero on design.

Next with an example of the photoelectric conversion apparatus having 4000 4000 16 million pixels as also explained in the first embodiment each noise will be roughly estimated. When the layers of a SiNx a Si and N are stacked in the thicknesses of 3000 5000 and 1000 respectively and the pixel pitch is 100 m the capacitor C in the photoelectric conversion elements S to S is about 3 pF and the reading capacitor C of one of the matrix signal wires M to M is Cgs 4000 200 pF. The KTC noise Tn occurring upon performing the transfer operation by the switching elements TFTs T to T is as follows when obtained as voltage noise on the capacitance C of the matrix signal wire M to M. 12 12 Here K the Boltzmann constant 1.38 10 J K T is an absolute temperature and C C is a series combined capacitance of C and C.

This noise Tn statistic probabilistically shows a Gaussian distribution and is expressed by an effective noise voltage value Vrms . Calculating Tn at room temperature 300 K Tn 0.55 Vrms . On the other hand the noise occurring in the OP amps L to L varies depending upon the handling frequency band B. As explained in the first embodiment when the transfer time 80 s reset time 80 s the OP amps receive input of signal of 1 160 s 6.25 kHz . Supposing the OP amps are operated in the frequency band B of four times that value i.e. 25 kHz the photoelectric conversion signals transferred and the KTC noise occurring in the photoelectric conversion circuit section are amplified sufficiently G times . In addition the effective noise An Vn square root over B of the OP amp input portions occurring in the operation frequency band is also amplified G times. The noise An occurring in the OP amps and the KTC noise Tn in the photoelectric conversion circuit section are independent from each other and effective noise Jn at the amp input portion including the both noise is expressed by Jn An Tn while the total effective noise at the amp output terminal is Jn G.

Here if An Tn Jn is determined by An which is disadvantageous in terms of S N of the photoelectric conversion apparatus. Accordingly desirably An Tn or An

For obtaining images comparable to those by the conventional film method as applying the photoelectric conversion apparatus according to the present invention to the X ray image pickup apparatus it is said that the S N ratios required for the apparatus are very high normally S N 10000 or more.

Here is first described an example wherein the photoelectric conversion apparatus with the two dimensional array of photoelectric conversion elements is applied to the X ray image pickup apparatus.

Incidentally when the X ray visible conversion fluorescent member is in close contact with the photoelectric conversion apparatus as shown in the illuminance obtained on the light receiving surfaces of photoelectric conversion elements becomes maximum and the illuminance at that time can be that of several Lx or so though depending upon the fluorescent member used or a dose of the X ray source. Photocurrent flowing in the photoelectric conversion elements with light of 1 Lx is about 5 pA per photoelectric conversion element in the foregoing example of the photoelectric conversion apparatus of 4000 4000 if the photocurrent is accumulated in the capacitor C of 3 pF in the photoelectric conversion element during the period of 500 msec the signal output S in the capacitor C of 200 pF of matrix signal wire after transfer through the switching TFT becomes 5 pF 500 msec 3 pA 200 pA 12.3 my . The noise value Jn in the capacitance C of 200 pF of matrix signal wire is Jn 0.78 Vrms and regarding the effective noise Jn as N the S N ratio is 12.3 mV 0.78 V 15800. Namely the apparatus can fully function as a photoelectric conversion section of the X ray image pickup apparatus.

The noise in the OP amp portion includes not only Vn but also the thermal noise occurring in the resistance of R R for example. It can be easily reduced far smaller than the noise due to Vn by decreasing their resistance values. Also there exists a current nature noise component In in the input portion in the OP amps. This can be decreased to be far smaller than the noise due to Vn by using field effect transistors for the first stage transistors of the OP amps. Namely since the equivalent input noise voltage Vn owned by the OP amps greatly affects S N of the photoelectric conversion apparatus Vn of OP amps is specified in the present invention.

Also is a timing chart to show the operation in which especially illustrates the operation related to the capacitor elements CC to CC and reset switches D to D and the other operation is the same as in . The operation of the present embodiment will be explained using and .

CRES is a control signal of the switches RES to RES for resetting the capacitor CL three Cgs of TFTs T to T which are not shown in formed in the matrix signal wire M to M to the reset potential GND . P shows states of change of potential at a node for example represented by P on of matrix signal wire. Essentially the node P should be reset to GND being the reset potential by the CRES signal Hi. However when the capacitor C of matrix signal wire is reset the thermal noise probabilistically occurs as KTC noise because of the ON resistance of switch RES. The noise quantity thereof. Rn KT C Vrms . In the foregoing example of C 200 pF the noise reaches even Rn 4.55 Vrms which will be the main factor of noise in the photoelectric conversion apparatus as exceeding foregoing Jn 0.78 Vrms .

If reading is carried out in the state wherein this noise quantity Rn is superimposed on the capacitor C of matrix signal wire S N of photoelectric conversion apparatus will be naturally lowered. In the waveform P of deviation amounts which are denoted by error in from the reset potential GND after OFF of CRES are due to the KTC noise occurring upon this reset. This noise is also multiplied by the amplification factor G 1 R R by the OP amp L to L. Although not shown in the output of G times the waveform P always appears in the output from the OP amp L to L. P in is a waveform of the opposed electrode of the capacitor element connected in series to the output of amp L. Namely it represents the waveform at node P shown in .

Here the reset switch D is connected to the node P and is controlled by control signal DRES. DRES becomes ON nearly at the same time as CRES and DRES becomes OFF a little after OFF of CRES. During the period of ON of DRES the reset potential GND is given at the node P. Even after DRES becomes OFF to change the switch element D into a high impedance state the node P is held at the GND potential. In that state for example when the gate G of transfer TFT is turned ON the signal charge accumulated in the capacitance of photoelectric conversion element S is transferred to the capacitor C of matrix signal wire. Its state is shown in the waveform P of and the KTC noise Rn upon reset preliminarily held after end of CRES is also superimposed upon the transfer operation. However the waveform at the node P in this transfer operation process appears so that only the change of voltage of C due to the signal of photoelectric conversion element is multiplied by G because the DC component of Rn multiplied by G in the OP amp L to L is shut off by the capacitor element CC. Namely it results in canceling the KTC noise upon reset. After that the output of P is transferred to the capacitor element CL by the SMPL pulse and then it is subjected to serial conversion by SR to be output from the OP amp . The operation of this part is the same as that explained in Embodiment 1.

As explained above the present invention involves such an arrangement that in the reading circuit section the capacitor elements CC to CC for letting only the AC components pass are connected to midway of the output wires from the output terminals of OP amps L to L and that the reset switches D to D for DC restoration of the capacitor elements are provided whereby the KTC noise occurring upon reset of capacitance formed in each matrix signal wire can be removed thus permitting enhancement of S N of photoelectric conversion apparatus and permitting high quality images to be obtained.

Terminals A A A A are those for inputting a signal for selecting an amplification factor from the outside and only one of the four terminals is assumed to be Hi. When the signal of Hi is input to either one of the terminals A A A A the switch element S S S S connected to either terminal A A A A is turned on. When either one switch is turned on the OP amp K to K operates as a non inverting amplifier. For example if resistance values of resistors R to R are taken as sufficiently larger than the ON resistance of each switch element and if all are set to a same value R the amplification factor with S on is 1 1 4 1.25 the amplification factor with S on is 1 2 3 1.66 the amplification factor with S on is 1 3 2 2.5 and the amplification factor with S on is 1 4 1 5 . By properly selecting the resistance values of the resistors R to R other four desired amplification factors can be obtained.

The present embodiment showed an example of switching the four amplification factors by the four control signals but without having to be limited to four a desired number of control signals may be arranged to switch associated amplification factors. If a multiplexer circuit is connected to the control terminals N external control signals permits switch of 2ways.

Overcoming the problem that individual differences of photoelectric conversion outputs occur due to dispersion on fabrication of a Si semiconductor thin film as pointed out previously the photoelectric conversion apparatus of the present invention can compensate for the output dispersion easily because of the function capable of controlling the amplification factor by a signal from the outside in the reading Circuit section and therefore it has a merit of decrease in the cost of apparatus as a result.

Terminals Vdd Vss are power terminals of the OP amp and the power of Vdd Vss is input. Normally assuming that the GND of the system of photoelectric conversion apparatus is the zero potential positive voltage is applied to Vdd while negative voltage to Vss respectively. When a control signal from PS terminal is not input to the switch element SWp that is when SWp is OFF current flows through resistor R diode D and diode D to bias the base potential of transistor Q to the potential given by forward threshold voltage of D D. Then the transistor Q turns into the ON state the collector current I of transistors Q Q flows from Vdd terminal to resistor R. Since Q and Q and Q and Q are in the relation of current mirror structure when the transistors of Q Q Q have the same performance current equal to the collector current I of Q flows to the collectors of Q Q. Q becomes a constant current supply for implementing the function as an OP amp. Bipolar transistors Q Q are input stage transistors current according to input difference voltage between input terminals VIN VIN flows into or flows out of the base of transistor Q and it is amplified in the output stage comprised of transistors Q Q Q to be output from the terminal Vout. Transistors Q Q compose current mirror structure to function as an active load on the input stage transistors Q Q. In practical use it is used as a negative feedback circuit for effecting negative feedback from the output terminal Vout to the VIN terminal of input terminal a non inverting amplifier circuit or an impedance converting circuit a voltage follower circuit or the like. Also it is often used as an inverting amplifier circuit.

Now normally when the OP amps are constructed using bipolar transistors as shown in the power supply current often exceeds 100 A in common sense though depending upon resistance values used. When several OP amps are connected to one matrix signal wire as shown in and supposing the consumption current of 1 mA is necessary for reading one pixel and when the photoelectric conversion apparatus of 4000 4000 pixels is read the power supply current of 1 mA 4000 columns 4 A flows. Supposing the power supply voltage of Vdd Vss is 5 V 5 V respectively the consumption power of 40 W is necessary in the reading circuit section. This power is always consumed as long as the power is input to each OP amp even in the state where SR SR or the other switches etc. do not operate in or that is even in the non reading state. This is converted to heat in the reading circuit section IC and the heat is radiated to the surroundings.

The switch element SWp shown in is purposed to decrease the above consumption power during the periods except for reading. The operation will be described below. During the periods except for reading a control signal from the terminal PS turns the switch element SWp ON thereby keeping no current flowing in the diodes of D D. By doing so the transistors Q Q become OFF so that no current flows. At the same time the collector current of transistors Q Q is also shut off. Namely the control signal from the terminal PS causes the constant current supply in the OP amp to be shut off which enables the consumption current to be reduced greatly. The switching element SWp may be for example an MOS transistor where it is switched by the voltage signal of 0 V 5 V .

By providing the OP amps in the reading circuit section with such a switch for reducing the consumption current in the above manner as shown in the temperature of the photoelectric conversion circuit section disposed around it can be prevented from increasing because of heat generation of the reading circuit section IC increase in the dark current upon OFF of TFTs of the switching elements can be decreased and the fixed pattern noise of the photoelectric conversion apparatus can be decreased. Also the decrease in the consumption power of the reading circuit section IC during the periods except for reading is of course economically advantageous.

The analog signal Va as serially converted in the reading circuit section is input into the three OP amps in the A D conversion circuit section. The three OP amps will be referred to as amp amp and amp and amplification factors G G G thereof are set in the ratio of 1 2 4. Each amplification factor is determined by a resistance value connected to the OP amp. In the present embodiment for explanation s sake the amplification factors G G G of amp amp and amp are set to be 1 2 and 4 respectively. Also the signal Va from the reading circuit section is assumed to be output in the range of 0 V to 1 V . Namely a signal over 1 V or a signal of minus voltage will never be input to the A D conversion circuit section. The signal Va from the reading circuit section is amplified by amp amp and amp and an output from each amp is input to the A D converter AD AD AD. Two reference voltages are supplied to terminal REF and to terminal REF in the A D converter AD AD AD and the analog input signal is digitized with respect to difference voltage between the reference terminals. The present embodiment employs 12 bit A D converters. Namely signal is digitized in 2 4096 steps. The two reference voltages of the A D converters are set to 0 V and 4 V .

Since AD is connected to the OP amp having the fourfold gain A D conversion is effected when Va is between 0 V inclusive and 0.25 V inclusive. When the signal Va is over 0.25 V overflow terminal OF outputs the logic signal of Hi. Since AD is connected to the OP amp having the twofold gain A D conversion is effected when Va is between 0 V inclusive and 0.5 V inclusive. When Va is over 0.5 V the overflow terminal OF outputs the logic signal of Hi. Since AD is connected to the OP amp having the onefold gain A D conversion is effected when Va is between 0 V inclusive and 1 V inclusive. When the signal Va is over 1 V the OF terminal of overflow terminal outputs the logic signal of Hi. 

Also selector has such a function that when the digital signals from AD and AD are input thereto and if the OF terminal of AD is Lo then it outputs the digital signal from AD as it is but if the OF terminal of AD is Hi then it outputs the digital signal from AD as it is. Also selector has such a function that when the digital signals from selector and AD are input thereto and if the OF terminal of AD is Lo then it outputs the digital signal from selector as it is but if the OF terminal of AD is Hi then it outputs the digital signal from AD as it is. Namely from the output terminal of selector AD is output when Va 0 V to 0.25 V AD is output when Va 0.25 V to 0.5 V AD is output when Va 0.5 V to 1 V . The selector and selector are identical on a circuit basis and shows an example of schematic circuitry of selector in .

When OF of each A D converter is Lo that is when the signal Va is smaller than 0.25 V a ratio of the digital outputs from AD AD AD becomes the gain ratio of amps G G G 1 2 4. Namely the digital output from AD is one obtained by shifting the digits of bits of the digital output from AD by one bit to the MSB side and the digital output from AD is one obtained by shifting the digits of bits of the digital output from AD by one bit to the MSB side.

For example if the A D converter AD is selected and if the output thereof is as follows from the MSB side 

As a result the A D conversion circuit section of the present embodiment is arranged so that AD performs digitization in 2 4096 steps when Va 0 V to 0.25 V AD performs digitation in 2 2048 steps when Va 0.25 V to 0.5 V AD performs digitization in 2 2048 steps when Va 0.5 V to 1 V . Namely it can cut the analog signal from the reading circuit section ranging from Va 0 V to 1 V in 4096 2048 2048 8192 steps and can give an output as a 14 bit digital value. This 14 bit digital output is stored for example in a memory and is subjected to digital processing with a computer.

In the present embodiment signals with Va not more than 0.25 V are quantized in for the dynamic range 1 V . Namely signals in low levels of or less are expressed in high resolution and it is suitable especially for applications such as medical X ray image pickup apparatus. Since offset components such as the fixed pattern noise FPN in the dark state caused in the photoelectric conversion circuit section and FPN caused in the reading circuit are digitized in high resolution the accuracy of correction is improved in execution of offset correction.

The present embodiment was explained with the example wherein the A D conversion circuit section included three OP amps and three A D converters but it may be provided with a plurality of respective elements N elements . Also the amplification factors of the OP amps were explained as 1 2 and 4 but they do not have to be G G G 1 2 4 and may be set at another amplification factor ratio for example 2 4 and 8. In that case the reference voltage of the A D converters may be 8 V according to the amplification factors. With N OP amps the ratio of gains of the respective OP amps may be set to 2 2 2 . . . 2 and N A D converters are to be used. Further the present embodiment employed the 12 bit A D converters but any bit A D converters may be used.

As seen from the above description use of N OP amps and N M bit A D converters in the A D conversion circuit section permits us to obtain digital outputs of M N 1 bits and the data can be processed as digital values of M N 1 bits in a succeeding data processing apparatus using a computer and a memory circuit.

Also analog signals of or less to the dynamic range can be converted to digital signals substantially in the same accuracy as in the case of using the A D converters of M N 1 bits. This means that if the A D converters of M N 1 bits do not exist or if they exist but cannot be used because of their conversion speed M N 1 bit equivalent digital conversion can be achieved by using N M bit A D converters.

In the number of inputs to the reading circuit section is 128 as illustrated. If the number of columns in the two dimensional photoelectric conversion element circuit section is for example 2560 twenty reading circuit sections ICs will be used. BND to BND indicate interconnections between the matrix signal wires M to M in the photoelectric conversion circuit section and the reading circuit section which are connected by the wire bonding method or the anisotropic connection method.

On the other hand when a signal from the photoelectric conversion circuit section is input into the operational amplifier L to L an electric current according to a voltage of the input flows through the input resistor RA to RA. For example supposing the output voltage from the matrix signal wire M i.e. the input voltage of the operational amplifier L is V the electric current I flowing through the input resistor RA is given by I V RA. Namely as the input resistance becomes smaller the thermal noise decreases while the electric current flowing through the input resistor increases. The electric current will flow to GND. If the impedance of GND is large the electric current flowing through the input resistor will cause a voltage drop. For example in the case where GND is supplied at a single point from the outside to the reading circuit section GND wiring is routed from that point to supply GND to the operational amplifiers of L to L. In the case of the reading circuit section wherein the number of inputs is 128 as shown in electric currents flowing in the 128 input resistors all flow into the GND wire which would change the reference potentials GND of operational amplifiers existing away from the supply point of GND. In addition amounts of the change will be dependent on input signals of the other signal wires which could cause failure in obtaining correct photoelectric conversion signals. The voltage drop amount of reference potential can be decreased by increasing the line width of the GND wire thus routed but it will also increase the chip area which is not a desirable solution. Also the impedance can be lowered by supplying GND from the outside to each operational amplifier of from L to L but it is not practical to provide lead out pads in the same number as the number of inputs.

In the present embodiment the operational amplifiers of L to L are provided each with the individual buffer amplifiers E to E to supply the reference potential GND for the low noise amplifiers of L to L from the respective outputs of the buffer amplifiers of E to E. As a result even if the input resistors RA to RA of the operational amplifiers L to L are set small so as to increase the electric currents flowing through the input resistors a good quality GND potential can be always supplied as the reference of the low noise operational amplifiers L to L whereby accurate photoelectric conversion signals can be attained. Of course the thermal noise occurring at the input resistors is low because of the small input resistances RA to RA so that S N can be enhanced. Resistance values of the input resistors do not have to be too small and may be set in consideration of the thermal noise occurring at the resistors and the noise occurring at the buffer amplifiers E to E.

The present embodiment was described with the number of inputs in the reading circuit section being 128 but the reading circuit section may include much more inputs without raising any problem.

There are roughly the following four points in different from . First the capacitor elements CC to CC are connected through resistance elements RB to RB to the switch elements D to D. Second a signal for opening closing the switch element D to D i.e. a DRES signal is made by CRES signal and delay circuit DL or DL and in addition it can be selected by control signal DSEL from the outside. Third a low pass filter comprised of buffer amplifier F to F resistance element RF to RF and capacitor element CF to CF is provided between the capacitor element CC to CC and the buffer amplifier A to A. Fourth the slew rate of buffer amplifier A to A functioning in sampling a signal into the capacitor element CL to CL for sample and hold is arranged as capable of being varied by a control signal SR from the outside.

Although the photoelectric conversion apparatus of the present embodiment is illustrated with nine pixels of 3 3 the apparatus may be constructed with much more pixels without departing from the spirit of the invention. Since no inconvenience will occur with description about only one line of matrix signal wire the present embodiment will be described with the drawing as to only the line of matrix signal wire of M.

The operational amplifier L of first stage in the reading circuit section for amplifying the signal from the photoelectric conversion circuit section is excellent in low noise performance as also described in Embodiment 2. The frequency band thereof may be a band in which the photoelectric conversion signal transmitted by the transfer operation at TFT in the photoelectric conversion circuit section can be amplified enough. However if the operational amplifier L has a frequency band broader than necessary the photoelectric conversion signal can be amplified while the high frequency components of random noise occurring at L will be also amplified. The noise of high frequency components appears in the output of the photoelectric conversion circuit section upon resetting it and results in being terminated at the capacitor element CC. This will be a cause to degrade S N. The high frequency components of noise of L are also amplified in transfer of photoelectric conversion signal at TFT which also degrades S N. Namely the performance required for the operational amplifier of L is the frequency band in which the amplifier can amplify the photoelectric conversion signal transmitted by the transfer operation at TFT in the photoelectric conversion circuit section enough and which is not broader than necessary. It is however not easy in actually designing and fabricating the operational amplifier to construct the operational amplifier having a desired band in a simple circuit configuration. Especially in the case of the reading circuit of the present invention in which a plurality of operational amplifiers need to be made on a chip there is a possibility of dispersion being not of one order of magnitude but of several times. Therefore the operational amplifier L is designed in a little broader frequency band taking account of the dispersion rather than the frequency band in which the photoelectric conversion signal transmitted by the transfer operation at TFT in the photoelectric conversion circuit section can be amplified.

During transfer of photoelectric conversion signal through TFT after end of reset the buffer amplifier F capacitor element CF and resistance element RF function as a primary LPF. In other words the high frequency side noise of L can be cut thereby. The band of buffer amplifier F can be set slightly high and the constants of CF and RF can be selected to be those achieving the frequency band in which the photoelectric conversion signal transmitted by the transfer operation at TFT in the photoelectric conversion circuit section can be amplified enough and which is not broader than necessary.

The delay time of trailing edge of DRES signal by the delay circuit DL DL is controlled by the DSEL signal. Let Td be a delay time of trailing edge of DRES signal. As described in Embodiment 3 the KTC noise occurring in resetting the reading capacitance C of matrix signal wire by CRES can be canceled by coupling the capacitor element CC on an AC basis and effecting the timing operation shown in . With insertion of resistance element RB the quantity VKTC of the KTC noise clamped on CCL is given by VKTC VT 1 EXP Td CC RB where VT is the total quantity of the KTC noise. Namely the KTC noise can be accumulated sufficiently in CC by setting Td sufficiently longer than the time constant CC RB and the KTC noise can be canceled upon transfer of TFT. However setting of longer Td will increase the time necessary for reading of one row which in turn means that the reading time of photoelectric conversion signal for one frame becomes longer. For example assuming that the photoelectric conversion apparatus of the present invention is applied to the X ray image pickup apparatus Td may be set longer for obtaining a high quality still image of one shot but in the case of obtaining a plurality of continuous moving pictures the increase of reading time will decrease the acquisition rate frame rate the number of frames sec of moving picture. The present embodiment enables Td to be switched by the DSEL signal. This allows easy switching of the operation state by the DRES signal depending upon the purpose for example in such a way that the DRES signal with longer Td is used in the still image mode requiring the high quality of image with high S N whereas the DRES signal with shorter Td is used in the moving picture mode of high frame rate.

When the shift register in the reading circuit section is of a circuit system for performing synchronous output with basic clock though not illustrated in photoelectric conversion signals analog signals after serial conversion by are output in synchronism with the basic clock. For example when the basic clock is 10 MHz the output rate of analog signal can also be designed at 10 MHz. However there are cases to reject acceptance of the analog output rate of 10 MHz for example because of restrictions on hardware such as the A D conversion circuit section or the system circuit including the memory CPU and the other digital circuits provided thereafter or because of software circumstances. In such cases the operation may be performed at the basic clock for example of 5 MHz. In the present embodiment it is also possible to keep the delay amount Td constant at the operation timing to cancel the above KTC noise. It is realized by making the delay circuits DL DL with the basic clock and they can be simple digital circuits.

For example DL may be arranged to effect a delay of 16 clock pulses while DL a delay of 32 clock pulses. At 10 MHz DSEL is set to Hi to use DL achieving Td 3.2 sec at 5 MHz DSEL is set to Lo to use DL achieving Td 3.2 sec . This means that Td can also be kept constant by switching of DSEL. The capacitance of CC and the resistance of RB can be properly set in consideration of the KTC noise the band of operational amplifier L and the reading speed and the DRES signals can be switched by the DSEL signal depending upon the purpose.

Electric currents flowing in transistors Q Q can be varied between in an on state and in an off state of the external control signal SR. This changes an amount of charge that can be charged in CL in a unit time when the SMPL signal is on that is when the photoelectric conversion signal from the photoelectric conversion circuit section is sampled in the capacitor element CL. Namely SR changes the slew rate V sec of amplifier A. The noise occurring in the amplifier A is given by the reciprocal of gain of amplifier L G G R R when converted at the input portion of the reading circuit section. Similarly as with L and the other amplifiers it is dependent on the noise density V square root over Hz and frequency band of A. When the SR signal is turned to Lo at the amplifier of A the slew rate decreases. This means that the frequency band of amplifier A is decreased. This works advantageously in respect of S N because the noise of amplifier A accumulated in CL can be decreased in sampling the photoelectric conversion signal with SMPL signal set Hi. For example when the signal from the photoelectric conversion circuit section is weak SR is turned to Lo to decrease the slew rate of A whereby the noise can be decreased. For example when the present photoelectric conversion apparatus is used as an X ray image pickup apparatus the X ray dose is usually limited and signal amounts obtained become weak as described previously which makes the switching function by SR effective.

Although in the present embodiment the switching by the control signal of DSEL or SR is described only by the switching function of two ways Hi and Lo it is of course easy to increase the number of switching ways for example four ways eight ways sixteen ways . . . with necessity.

First the device operation of single photoelectric conversion element will be described. to are energy band diagrams for explaining the device operation.

In the present embodiment the D electrode does not cover the N layer completely but movement of electron is free between the D electrode and the N layer. Thus the D electrode and the N layer are always at the same potential which the following description assumes as a premise.

The present photoelectric conversion elements operate in two types of operation modes which are the refresh mode and photoelectric conversion mode depending upon how to apply the voltage to the D electrode and to the G electrode.

In of the refresh mode a negative potential is given to the D electrode with respect to the G electrode and the holes indicated by dots in the i layer are guided to the D electrode by the electric field. At the same time the electrons indicated by circles are injected into the i layer. At this time some holes and electrons are recombined in the N layer and i layer to annihilate. If this state continues for a sufficiently long time the holes in the i layer will be swept away from the i layer.

For changing this state into of the photoelectric conversion mode a positive potential is given to the D electrode with respect to the G electrode. Then the electrons in the i layer are guided momentarily to the D electrode. However since the N layer serves as an injection preventing layer the holes are not guided into the i layer. If light is incident into the i layer in this state the light will be absorbed to generate electron hole pairs. These electrons are guided to the D electrode by the electric field while the holes migrate in the i layer to reach the interface between the i layer and the a SiNx insulating layer. However because they cannot move into the insulating layer they remain in the i layer. Since at this time the electrons move to the D electrode while the holes move to the interface to the insulating layer in the i layer an electric current flows from the G electrode in order to keep the electrically neutral state in the photoelectric conversion element. This electric current is according to the electron hole pairs generated by the light and thus is proportional to the incident light. After the photoelectric conversion mode of is maintained for a certain period and when the state is changed over again to the refresh mode of the holes having stayed in the i layer are guided toward the D electrode as described above so that an electric current according to the holes flows at the same time. The amount of the holes correspond to the total quantity of the incident light in the period of the photoelectric conversion mode. Although the electric current corresponding to the quantity of electrons injected into the i layer also flows at this time this quantity is almost constant and thus detection can be done with subtraction of this quantity. Namely the photoelectric conversion elements in the present embodiment can output the quantity of incident light in real time and can also detect the total quantity of incident light in a certain period.

However if the period of the photoelectric conversion mode becomes longer or if the illuminance of the incident light is too strong for some reason there would be some cases in which the electric current does not flow even with incidence of light. This is because many holes stay in the i layer as shown in the holes weaken the electric field in the i layer to stop guide of generated electrons and the electrons are recombined with the holes in the i layer. If the state of incidence of light is changed in this condition an unstable electric current could flow. However when the state is changed again to the refresh mode the holes in the i layer are swept away and an electric current proportional to light flows in the next photoelectric conversion mode.

In the foregoing description when the holes in the i layer are swept away in the refresh mode the all holes are swept away ideally but sweeping of part of the holes is also effective to obtain the electric current equal to that described above without any problem. This means that the element needs to be prevented from being in the state of on the occasion of detection in the next photoelectric conversion mode and it is thus necessary to determine the potential of the D electrode relative to the G electrode in the refresh mode the period of the refresh mode and the characteristics of the injection preventing layer of the N layer satisfying it. Further injection of electrons into the i layer in the refresh mode is not a necessary condition and the potential of the D electrode relative to the G electrode is not limited to negative values. The reason is as follows. If many holes stay in the i layer and even if the potential of the D electrode relative to the G electrode is positive the electric field in the i layer will be applied in the direction to guide the holes to the D electrode. Similarly as to the characteristics of the injection preventing layer of the N layer capability of injecting the electrons into the i layer is not a necessary condition either.

Next an example of the operation of the photoelectric conversion apparatus of will be described using the timing chart of . The control signal VSC is for giving two types of bias to the bias line REF of photoelectric conversion element i.e. to the D electrode of photoelectric conversion element. The D electrode becomes VREF V when VSC is Hi but VS V when Lo. A B are DC power supplies which are reading power supply VS V and refresh power supply VREF V respectively.

First the operation in the refresh period is described. All signals from the shift register are made Hi and the CRES signal of the reading circuit section is turned into the state of Hi. Then the all TETs T to T for switching become conducted and the switch elements RES to RES in the reading circuit section also become conducted thereby turning the G electrodes of the all photoelectric conversion elements to the GND potential. When the VSC signal becomes Hi the D electrodes of the all photoelectric conversion elements turn into a biased state negative potential to the refresh power supply VREF. Then the all photoelectric conversion elements S to S go into the refresh mode to be refreshed.

Next the photoelectric conversion period will be described. VSC is switched to the state of Lo to turn the D electrodes of the all photoelectric conversion elements into a biased state positive potential to the reading power supply VS. Then the photoelectric conversion elements go into the photoelectric conversion mode. In this state all signals from the shift register are made Lo and the CRES signal in the reading circuit section is turned into the state of Lo. Then all TFTs T to T for switching become off and the switch elements RES to RES in the reading circuit also become off. The G electrodes of the all photoelectric conversion elements become open on a DC basis but potentials are maintained because the photoelectric conversion elements are also capacitors. However since no light is incident to the photoelectric conversion elements at this point no charge is generated. Namely no electric current flows. When the light source is turned on pulsewise in this state the D electrode N electrode of each photoelectric conversion element is exposed to the light so that the so called photocurrent flows. Although the light source is not illustrated specifically in it is for example a fluorescent tube an LED a halogen lamp or the like in the case of the copiers. In the case of the X ray imaging apparatus the light source is nothing but the X ray source and in this case a scintillator is used for conversion between X rays and visible light. The photocurrent flowing due to this light is accumulated as a charge in each photoelectric conversion element and is retained after off of the light source.

Then the operation transfers to the reading period but the operation is exactly the same as in the contents described in Embodiment 1 and description thereof is omitted herein.

An image is obtained through the refresh period photoelectric conversion period and reading period and the above operation is repeated for obtaining a plurality of images such as moving pictures. Since the present embodiment is constructed in such an arrangement that the D electrodes of the photoelectric conversion elements are connected to the common wire and that this common wire is controlled by the VSC signal between the potentials of the refresh power supply VREF and reading power supply VS the all photoelectric conversion elements can be switched simultaneously between the refresh mode and the photoelectric conversion mode. Because of this arrangement a photooutput can be obtained by one TFT per pixel without performing complex control.

Next an example of the operation of the present embodiment will be described using the timing chart of .

With VSC being in the Hi state and with CREST signal also being in the Hi state when the G signal of shift register SR becomes Hi the photoelectric conversion elements S S S . . . i.e. the photoelectric conversion elements corresponding to the 4 l 1 columns l integers not less than 0 on the first row are refreshed. Similarly G G . . . GN are successively turned to Hi and at the time of completion of the shift register operation refresh is completed for the all photoelectric conversion elements corresponding to the first column the fifth column the ninth column . . . i.e. the 4 l 1 columns l integers not less than 0 . During this period the photoelectric conversion elements in the other columns i.e. the photoelectric conversion elements in the second column the sixth column the tenth column . . . and the third column the seventh column the eleventh column . . . and the fourth column the eighth column the twelfth column . . . are in a state of the reading operation performed by the reading circuit section because VSC VSC VSC corresponding to the respective columns are in the Lo state where the D electrodes are biased to VS and the signals of CRES CRES CRES repeat the normal reset operation in the same manner as the CRES signal of .

Next VSC is transitioned from the Hi state to the Lo state and the CRES signal is maintained in the Hi state. In that state the shift register SR is operated normally from G to GN. At the time of completion of the shift register operation the D electrodes of the all photoelectric conversion elements corresponding to the first column the fifth column the ninth column . . . that is the 4 l 1 columns l integers not less than 0 are biased to the reading power supply VS while the G electrodes thereof are kept in the state of the GND potential. Namely the operation mode is shifted into the photoelectric conversion mode. On the other hand the photoelectric conversion elements in the other columns i.e. the photoelectric conversion elements in the second column the sixth column the tenth column . . . and the third column the seventh column the eleventh column . . . and the fourth column the eighth column the twelfth column . . . are in the state of the reading operation performed by the reading circuit section because VSC VSC VSC corresponding to the respective columns are in the Lo state the D electrodes are biased to VS and the signals of CRES CRES CRES repeat the normal reset operation in the same manner as the CRES signal of .

Namely in the process wherein the photoelectric conversion elements corresponding to the 4 l 1 columns l integers not less than 0 are refreshed in a certain period and are shifted into the photoelectric conversion mode in the next period the photoelectric conversion elements in the other columns are subjected to two consecutive reading operations. The series of these operations are repeated as successively shifting the phases of the operations of the four groups of the 4 l 1 columns the 4 l 2 columns the 4 l 3 columns and the 4 l 4 columns l integers not less than 0 one from another as shown in .

If the light source is turned on and off at the timing shown in the photoelectric conversion elements in the three groups under the two consecutive reading operations output information of the dark state in the first frame and output information of the state of exposure to the light in the next frame. Although not illustrated in correction can be made for the information of the dark state the fixed pattern noise FPN by subtraction thereof in the digital process circuit after the A D conversion circuit section of later stage. If data of photoelectric conversion elements in the columns under refresh is interpolated with data of photoelectric conversion elements under the reading operation in the adjacent columns image data continuous in time series can be attained in the moving picture mode.

To perform the refresh operation separately for each of the four groups as described in the present embodiment is effective especially in obtaining continuous moving images which can increase the frame rate of moving picture substantially.

If the shift operation is carried out to turn four rows simultaneously on in such a way as to turn G to G of shift register SR simultaneously on then to turn G to G simultaneously on next to turn G to G simultaneously on and so on average information will be obtained of photoelectric conversion elements in four adjacent rows and the scanning speed will be shortened to a quarter. Further if an averaging process of pixel data of three non refreshed groups three columns is carried out in the column direction in the digital process circuit of later stage and for example supposing the present photoelectric conversion apparatus is constructed in the matrix of 2000 rows 2000 columns the data can be compressed to that of 500 rows 500 columns which can also be displayed on a commercially available and cheap CRT. In this case 4 4 16 pixels are combined into one pixel in a certain frame because of execution of refresh which will cause deviation of the center of gravity of pixel. However it is averaged in four frame units as a result and thus causes no specific trouble.

In the present embodiment the refresh was described with the four groups but without having to be limited to the four groups a plurality of groups may be set depending upon the purpose.

As detailed above the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus that can reduce the reading scanning time and can enable high speed reading and the system having the apparatus.

Also the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus that can perform reading of signal of high S N with little occurrence of thermal noise KTC noise and the system having the apparatus.

In addition the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus that can obtain good image information without density unevenness and without unnecessary stripes decreased in the fixed pattern noise and the system having the apparatus.

Further the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus that can obtain the image information excellent in tone level and the system having the apparatus.

Additionally the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus that can easily compensate for unevenness of characteristics caused by the manufacturing dispersion of photoelectric conversion element or the like and that can promote further reduction of cost and the system having the apparatus.

More specifically in the reading circuit section the amplified output signals from the matrix signal lines of each photoelectric conversion circuit section are transferred once to the reading capacitors by the transfer switches and thereafter are successively switched by the reading switches whereby the reading scanning time for one row can be decreased greatly as compared with that in the conventional apparatus. Namely the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus and system permitting high speed reading.

According to the present invention the first stage analog operational amplifiers in the reading circuit section have low noise performance whereby the obtained outputs become unlikely to be affected by the KTC noise occurring in the photoelectric conversion circuit section. Namely the present invention can provide the photoelectric conversion apparatus and system with high S N. Also by connecting the capacitor elements for letting only the AC components pass in series with the output terminals of the foregoing analog operational amplifiers and locating the reset switches for DC restoration of the capacitor elements a drop of S N due to the KTC noise occurring upon reset of the photoelectric conversion circuit section can be suppressed the photoelectric conversion apparatus and system with high S N can be provided and high quality images without roughness can be obtained.

Further according to the present invention by having the function to reduce the consumption current of the OP amps used in the reading circuit section in the so called standby state where the reading operation is not carried out heat generation of IC can be restricted and the dark current of the switching elements in the photoelectric conversion circuit section upon operation can be decreased. Namely the present invention decreases the fixed pattern noise of the photoelectric conversion apparatus thereby obtaining excellent images without density unevenness in the plane and without stripes.

Also according to the present invention in the A D conversion circuit section N N 2 or more operational amplifiers for amplifying the signal from the reading circuit section are provided N A D converters of M bits are provided the ratio of amplification factors G G . . . GN of the N operational amplifiers is set to G G . . . GN 22 . . . 2 outputs from the N operational amplifiers are input to the N A D converters respectively an output from one A D converter out of the N A D converters is selected in accordance with the output level of the analog signal from the reading circuit section and it is output as a digital value of N M 1 bits whereby the photoelectric conversion signal can be A D converted in high resolution and at high speed. Namely the present invention can obtain image data of high tone level. In addition the photoelectric conversion apparatus of the present invention may also be suitably applied to a system such as the high performance medical X ray image pickup apparatus.

Further the photoelectric conversion elements and switching elements in the photoelectric conversion circuit section are made of the amorphous silicon semiconductor material whereby the large area photoelectric conversion apparatus can be provided cheaply by the easy processes. In addition when it is provided with the function capable of controlling the amplification factors of the analog operational amplifiers in the matrix signal wires in the reading circuit section by the signal from the outside it is easy to compensate for the gain dispersion due to the film thickness dispersion on fabrication of amorphous silicon semiconductor thin film which can promote reduction of cost of apparatus.

As having been described above the photoelectric conversion apparatus of the present invention is very excellent in respect of the speed S N tone level and cost can meet the demand for digitization of X ray image information strongly desired in the medical and industrial fields these years and can improve the diagnostic efficiency in the hospitals not only in Japan going into the aging society but also in the whole world and the examination efficiency of buildings and the other various members and dealing efficiency after examination.

It is noted that the present invention is by no means limited to the above embodiments but modifications and or combinations can be made if necessary within the scope of the spirit of the present invention.

