---

title: Mobile mapping of quick response (QR) codes to web resources
abstract: A method includes receiving a target Uniform Resource Locator (URL), receiving a scan of a Quick Response (QR) code, where the QR code includes an alias URL, and mapping the alias URL encoded on the QR code to the target URL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348929&OS=09348929&RS=09348929
owner: SAP SE
number: 09348929
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20121030
---
This description relates to systems and techniques for mobile mapping of Quick Response QR codes to web resources.

A Quick Response QR code is a two dimensional matrix barcode. The QR code is a black and white image that may be used to encode data. A QR code may encode significantly more data than a Universal Product Code UPC barcode.

One use of the QR code is to encode a Uniform Resource Locator URL to a web resource. For example a QR code may encode a URL that links to information at a website on the web also referred to as the Internet . Scanning the QR code with a QR scanner e.g. a camera on a phone with a QR reader application may direct a browser or other application to the website at the URL that was encoded by the QR code. A QR code may be located in print media or attached to objects or at a location so that when the QR code is scanned the encoded URL points to information on the web that is related to the object where the QR code is located.

When a QR code is associated with an object or location it is important that the correct QR code has been placed with the correct object. In this manner when the QR code is scanned the encoded URL will point the browser application to the correct website that provides information as appropriate relating to the associated object or location.

Consideration is now being given to systems and methods to ensure that the QR code and its designated location or object that it is attached to always match.

According to one general aspect a method includes executing instructions recorded on a non transitory computer readable storage medium using at least one processor. The method includes receiving a target Uniform Resource Locator URL receiving a scan of a Quick Response QR code where the QR code includes an alias URL and mapping the alias URL encoded on the QR code to the target URL.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include receiving additional multiple different target URLs receiving a scan of a different QR code for each of the different target URLs where each of the QR codes includes a different alias URL mapping each of the different alias URLs encoded on the different QR codes to one of the target URLs and creating a table of the mappings. The method may include generating a redirect file from the mapping and exporting the redirect file to a web server or to a redirect service such that the target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of the QR code. The method may include modifying the redirect file by changing the target URL to a new target URL such that the new target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of the QR code. The method may include generating the QR code with the alias URL and a unique identifier. Receiving the scan of the QR code may occur after attaching a QR code to a desired location that is associated with the target URL. The method may include changing the mapping of the alias URL to a different target URL. Receiving a target Uniform Resource Locator URL may include receiving a request to navigate a browser application to the target URL.

In another general aspect a non transitory computer readable storage medium stores instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform the actions of receiving a target Uniform Resource Locator URL receiving a scan of a Quick Response QR code the QR code including an alias URL and mapping the alias URL encoded on the QR code to the target URL.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the non transitory computer readable storage medium may include instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform the actions of receiving additional multiple different target URLs receiving a scan of a different QR code for each of the different target URLs where each of the QR codes includes a different alias URL mapping each of the different alias URLs encoded on the different QR codes to one of the target URLs and creating a table of the mappings. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform the actions of generating a redirect file from the mapping and exporting the redirect file to a web server or to a redirect service such that the target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of the QR code. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform the action of modifying the redirect file by changing the target URL to a new target URL such that the new target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of the QR code. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform the action of generating the QR code with the alias URL and a unique identifier. The non transitory computer readable storage medium where receiving the scan of the QR code occurs after attaching a QR code to a desired location that is associated with the target URL. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform the action of changing the mapping of the alias URL to a different target URL.

In another general aspect a method includes executing instructions recorded on a non transitory computer readable storage medium using at least one processor. The method includes encoding a Quick Response QR code with an alias Uniform Resource Locator URL attaching the QR code to an object navigating a browser application to a target URL that is associated with the object scanning the QR code and mapping the alias URL from the scanned QR code to the target URL.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example scanning the QR code may occur after attaching the QR code to the object. The method may include generating a redirect file from the mapping and exporting the redirect file to a web server or to a redirect service such that the target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of the QR code. The method may include modifying the redirect file by changing the target URL to a new target URL such that the new target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of the QR code. Encoding a Quick Response QR code may include encoding the QR code with the alias URL and a unique identifier.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes a device and techniques for the mobile mapping of Quick Response QR codes to web resources. In one example implementation multiple QR codes may be generated where each QR code is encoded with a unique alias uniform resource locator URL . The QR codes may be printed for example on stickers. The stickers with the QR codes may then be affixed to objects at any location that is to be linked to a web resource without regard to which sticker goes with which object. When a sticker with a QR code has been affixed to an object a user may navigate a browser application to a target URL. For instance the target URL may be a website that is associated with one of the objects. The QR code may be scanned and associated with the target URL that is associated with the specific object. The scanning of the QR code and associating the QR code with the target URL creates a mapping between the alias URL encoded on the QR code and the target URL. The mapping of the alias URL and the target URL may be exported and loaded to a web server that processes requests sent to the alias URL such that when the QR code is scanned the browser application will be directed to the target URL even though the alias URL is encoded on the QR code.

In this manner a user may easily create a mapping between a target URL and an alias URL that is encoded on the QR code. The user may repeat this process for multiple QR codes and create a mapping table that can be loaded to a web server such that when one of the QR codes is scanned a browser application will be directed to the appropriate target URL as mapped in the mapping table on the web server. Thus a scanned QR code encoded with the alias URL redirects a browser application to the target URL. In this manner the process of tagging an object with a QR code that links to a web resource is improved because the object may be tagged with any of the QR codes having a unique alias URL. After an object is tagged with the QR code then the mapping between the alias URL and the target URL may be done. This optimizes the attachment of QR codes to objects because for example any sticker with a QR code may be attached to the object without regard to maintaining any special order or predefined mapping when the stickers are attached. This may help prevent errors such as attaching a QR code with an encoded URL that links to the wrong web resource for the object that it is attached. Also it allows changing the mapping afterwards without replacing the QR code by simply changing the mapping table on the web server.

Referring to an example block diagram illustrates a device for mapping QR codes to web resources. The device may include any type of computing device such as for example a computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a smart phone a cellular phone or any other type of computing device.

The device includes at least one processor and at least one computer readable storage medium . The at least one processor may be configured to execute instructions stored on the at least one memory that when executed cause the at least one processor to perform one or more actions. The one or more actions includes performing actions using the other components of the device . Of course the at least one processor and the computer readable storage medium may be understood to represent or include any known or future examples of corresponding components that may be utilized in the context of the device . Further it may be appreciated that any additional or otherwise conventional components may be utilized in the context of the device including for example components related to power communications input output functions and many other conventional features and functions that would be understood by one of skill in the art to be potentially implemented in the context of the device .

Moreover although the device is illustrated in the example of as a single computing device it may be understood that the device may represent two or more computers in communication with one another. It may be appreciated that any two components illustrated in the example of may be executed together as a single component. Conversely any single component of may be understood to be executed using two or more subcomponents.

The device includes a camera a QR code module a browser application a mapping module and a user interface . In addition to performing the conventional functions of a camera the camera may be used to view and or capture an image of a QR code. Other types of image capturing components also may be used in the device to view and or capture an image of a QR code.

The QR code module may be capable of scanning decoding and creating or encoding QR codes. The QR code module may be an application such as for example an app on a smart phone that is capable of performing these functions. For example the QR code module may function as a QR code reader. As a QR code reader the QR code module may receive an image of a QR code from the camera and decode the QR code. In one implementation the QR code may be encoded with a uniform resource locator URL and the QR code module may be configured to decode the URL and communicate the URL to the browser application . The browser application receives the URL and may request the content located at the URL on the user interface for viewing by a user .

In one implementation the QR code module may be configured to create or encode QR codes. For instance the QR code module may be capable of encoding a URL as a QR code. A user may enter a URL and then encode the URL as a QR code using the QR code module . The resulting QR code may be displayed on the user interface and or that may be printed or otherwise transferred to a physical medium for display and future scanning and decoding.

The browser application may be any browser application such as for example Internet Explorer Chrome FireFox etc. The browser application may be used to navigate to web resources using URLs. As discussed above the browser application may receive a URL from the QR code module and request the web resources associated with the URL.

In one example implementation the device may be used in a process to tag objects with QR codes using alias URLs and to create a mapping between the alias URLs and respective target URLs. The QR code module may be used to create multiple QR codes and encode each of the QR codes with a unique alias URL. The QR codes having the unique alias URLs may be printed on paper or labels or on other physical media including for example signs e.g. weather resistant acrylic signs . The QR codes may be transferred to any type of physical media that is capable of being affixed to an object. Alternatively the QR codes containing the alias URLs may be generated by a different computing device and pre printed on or transferred to the physical media.

The alias URL may be a URL for a web server that will be used to receive the request for the alias URL from a browser application and to re direct the browser application to web resources located at a target URL using a mapping between the alias URL and the target URL as described in more detail below. The desired web resource is not located at the alias URL. Instead the desired web resource is located at an associated target URL.

Each alias URL may include a unique identifier such that each of the encoded QR codes is unique. For instance the QR code module may encode each of the QR codes with the alias URL that includes a unique identifier such that each of the QR codes is unique even though the alias URL may be directed to a same web server. The unique identifier may be any alpha numeric code that is appended to or part of the alias URL.

The generated QR codes having the unique alias URL may be transferred to a physical media capable of being affixed to an object. The user performing the tagging process can then affix any of the QR codes to a particular object. It does not matter which of the QR codes is affixed to or associated with the particular object. Affixing a QR code to a particular object may mean that the QR code is physically attached to the object itself. In other instances affixing a QR code also may mean that the QR code is located or attached near the object and not necessarily physically attached to the object itself. This may be the case for example when tagging objects in a museum with QR codes. The QR codes may not be attached to the object itself but instead may be located on a wall near the object or a base of the object or on a display case near the object so as not to devalue or detract from the museum object. In this manner affixing a QR code to an object also means affixing a QR code at a location throughout this document.

After the QR code has been affixed to the object the user may navigate the browser application to a desired target URL that points to content related to the object or its location. Alternatively the user may enter the target URL directly to the mapping module . The user may scan the QR code that has been affixed to the object using the camera and the QR code module . The QR code module decodes the alias URL from the scanned QR code and communicates the alias URL to the mapping module . The mapping module is configured to create a mapping between the alias URL encoded on the QR code and the target URL. The mapping between the alias URL encoded on the QR code and the target URL may be maintained in a table of mappings . The table of mappings may be a file or database that can be used to maintain the mappings between alias URLs and target URLs. The table of mappings may be stored on the computer readable storage medium or other memory module not shown . In this manner the QR code affixed to the object will match with the desired web resource.

The user may repeat this process of affixing any of the QR codes to an object navigating the browser application to a desired target URL and scanning the QR code such that the mapping module creates the mapping between the alias URL and the target URL and add each new mapping to the table of mappings . In this manner the process of tagging many objects with QR codes is simplified because it does not matter which QR code is initially associated with the object since the QR code includes just an alias URL that is later mapped to a desired target URL that has relevance to the object. The device including its components as described above may assist in preventing errors in a tagging project such as attaching QR code that link to the wrong web resources.

Referring also to an example table of mappings is illustrated. The table of mappings includes an alias URL column and a target URL column. In this example each alias URL includes a unique identifier. For instance the alias URL in the first row includes the unique identifier 1 . The alias URL in the second row includes the unique identifier 2 and the alias URL in the third row includes the unique identifier 3. The target URL is the URL for the location of the web resource that is to be associated with an object. In this example the target URLs are in the second column.

The mapping module creates the table of mappings by linking or associating the alias URL with a selected target URL. The alias URL is obtained by scanning the QR code containing the alias URL e.g. http www.sap.com qr 1 . The QR code module communicates the alias URL to the mapping module . The browser application may be navigated to a target URL e.g. http www.bus.com busroutel.pdf and the browser application may communicate the target URL to the mapping module . Alternatively the user may enter the target URL directly into the user interface instead of navigating to the target URL using the browser application . The mapping module creates the association between the alias URL e.g. http www.sap.com qr 1 and the target URL e.g. http www.bus.com busroutel.pdf in the table of mappings as illustrated in . The process may be repeated to create the association between the alias URLs and target URLs.

The mapping module may be an application that is running on the device and that uses the processor to create the association between the alias URL and the target URL. The association or mapping may be formatted into a table of mappings . The mapping module may generate a redirect file from the table of mappings . The redirect file may be a file that is formatted for use by a web server such as web server . The redirect file may be exported to the web server . For example the redirect file may be exported to the web server over a network e.g. a wired or wireless network including the Internet.

The web server may import the redirect file . The redirect file includes a mapping of the alias URLs to the target URLs. When a request is received by the web server from a browser application for one of the alias URLs the web server looks up the alias URL in the redirect file and then redirects the requesting browser application to the target URL associated with the alias URL such that the content from the target URL is rendered in the browser application. When a browser application such as browser application receives a redirect response from the web server it automatically loads the target URL that was returned in that redirect response from the web server .

In other example implementations a redirection service may be used to export the mapping of the alias URLs to the target URLs. For example a redirection service may be available on the Internet to perform the redirection so that its application programming interfaces APIs would be exposed as services like SOAP web services REST services and the like that are used by the mapping module to create the mapping in order to make the QR codes link to the desired target URLs. In this case the redirection service takes the role of the web server .

Thus in one example when a user later scans one of the QR codes using a QR code reader then QR code reader extracts and decodes the alias URL and communicates the alias URL to a browser application. The browser application requests the alias URL. The request is sent to the web server . The web server looks up the target URL associated with the requested alias URL from the redirect file . The web server responds to the request with a redirect response containing the target URL. The browser application request the target URL from a web server associated with the target URL and the web server delivers the content at the target URL for rendering by the browser application on a user interface. The web server that delivers the content associated with the target URL may be the same web server or may be a web server different than the web server .

In one example implementation the table of mappings and or the redirect file may be updated to change the mapping of alias URLs to target URLs. For instance if the target URL has changed the table of mappings and or the redirect file may be changed directly. If the table of mappings is changed a new redirect file may be generated and exported to the web server .

In one example implementation the device may be used for large scale tagging of locations with QR codes. For instance it may be desirable to tag all public buildings in a city with QR codes that provide a link to web resources related to the public buildings. The device may be used to generate and prepare multiple QR codes with each QR code having a unique alias URL. The QR codes may be generated and encoded in advance and printed on the physical media that will be affixed to the public building.

Once the QR codes have been generated and printed any of the QR codes may be affixed to one of the buildings. It doesn t matter which QR code is first associated with the building. Once the QR code has been selected and likely affixed to the building then the QR code may be scanned using the camera and the QR code module . The QR code module decodes the QR code obtains the alias URL and communicates the alias URL to the mapping module .

Next the mapping module receives a target URL which is the location of the web resources associated with the particular building. The target URL may be obtained by inputting the target URL directly into the mapping module through the user interface . Alternatively the target URL may be obtained by navigating the browser application to the target URL such that the mapping module receives the target URL from the browser application .

The mapping module maps the alias URL from the scanned QR code to the target URL and adds the association to the table of mappings . This process may be repeated for each building that is being tagged with a QR code with each mapping of an alias URL to a target URL being added to the table of mappings . The table of mappings may be converted to a redirect file that is exported to a web server .

When a user later scans one of the QR codes on one of the buildings using a QR code reader e.g. a QR code module the QR code reader decodes the QR code and passes the alias QR code to a browser application e.g. browser application . The browser application requests the alias URL from the web server and the web server returns the target URL corresponding to the requested alias URL as listed in the redirect file in a redirect response. The browser application receives the target URL from the redirect response and then requests the web resources located at the target URL from the appropriate web server.

This is merely one example of a large scale tagging project using the device . Other examples may include the tagging of multiple public transportation stops in a city with QR codes where the web resources associated with the target URLs may provide route schedule and or fare information. Another example may include the tagging of multiple objects in a museum. Other projects to tag objects with QR codes whether it is one object or multiple objects may benefit from the device and its functionality.

Referring to an example process illustrates example operations of the device of . Process includes receiving a target Uniform Resource Locator URL . For example the mapping module of may receive a target URL from the browser application or directly from input on the user interface .

Process includes receiving a scan of a Quick Response QR code where the QR code includes an alias URL . For example the QR code module of may receive a scan of a QR code that has been encoded with an alias URL . The camera may capture the image of the QR code and the QR code module may scan and decode the QR code to obtain the alias URL and pass the alias URL to the mapping module . Each alias URL may include a unique identifier such that each alias URL is unique.

Process includes mapping the alias URL encoded on the QR code to the target URL . For example the mapping module of may map the alias URL to the target URL . The mapping module may create a table of mappings which may be stored. The process may be repeated to create additional alias URL and target URL pairs that are added to the table of mappings . A redirect file may be generated from the table of mappings and the redirect file may be exported to a web server such that the target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of a QR code.

Referring to an example process illustrates example operations of the device of . Process includes encoding a Quick Response QR code with an alias Uniform Resource Locator URL . For example the QR code module of may be configured to encode a QR code with an alias URL . Each alias URL may include a unique identifier such that each alias URL is unique.

Process includes attaching the QR code to an object . For example the QR code may be transferred e.g. printed etched etc. to a physical media that is then attached to the object . The QR codes containing the alias URLs may be prepared ahead of time prior to tagging objects.

Process includes navigating a browser application to a target URL that is associated with the object . For example the browser application of may be navigated to a target URL that contains the web resources for the object .

Process includes scanning the QR code . For example the QR code module may scan the QR code . The camera may capture the image of the QR code to enable the QR code module to scan and decode the QR code. The QR code module may pass the alias URL to the mapping module .

Process includes mapping the alias URL from the scanned QR code to the target URL . For example the mapping module may be configured to map the alias URL from the scanned QR code to the target URL . The mapping module may create a table of mappings which may be stored. The process may be repeated to create additional alias URL and target URL pairs that are added to the table of mappings . A redirect file may be generated from the table of mappings and the redirect file may be exported to a web server such that the target URL is browsed to in response to a scan of a QR code.

Implementations of the various techniques described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Implementations may be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program such as the computer program s described above can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps also may be performed by and an apparatus may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer may include at least one processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also may include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. Components may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

