---

title: Overhead-free provisioning of roaming WiFi networks
abstract: Methods, systems, apparatuses, and computer-readable media are provided for scanning a primary repository for one or more matching primary wireless profiles corresponding to one or more wireless networks, executing a primary connection cycle responsive to a determination that the primary repository stores the one or more matching primary wireless profiles, scanning one or more secondary repositories for one or more matching secondary wireless profiles corresponding to the one or more wireless networks if no matching primary wireless profile is discovered or the primary connection cycle fails, and executing a secondary connection cycle responsive to a determination that the one or more secondary repositories store the one or more matching secondary wireless profiles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226225&OS=09226225&RS=09226225
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09226225
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120413
---
Wireless networks are becoming an increasingly significant part of the Internet landscape. A wireless network in general terms is a network in which wireless and possibly mobile users are connected into a larger network infrastructure by one or more wireless i.e. non wired links at the network s edge. Many types of wireless networks exist including for example wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs local area networks LANs personal area networks PANs mesh networks cellular wireless networks including wireless 3G networks or wireless 4G networks based on for example Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX and Long Term Evolution LTE communication standards and so forth. A wireless network s classification depends on among other things the bit transmission rate and the geographical range over which data transmission is supported by the network.

At a high level of abstraction wireless networks may be classified according to two criteria 1 whether a packet transmitted via the wireless network crosses exactly one hop or multiple wireless hops and 2 whether the wireless network includes infrastructure such as a base station. This classification scheme generally yields four types of wireless networks including 1 single hop infrastructure based wireless networks which include a base station e.g. an entity responsible for sending and receiving data to and from wireless host s associated with the base station and in which all communication between the base station and a particular wireless host occurs over a single wireless hop 2 single hop infrastructure less wireless networks that do not include a base station and in which one of the nodes in the network may coordinate transmissions of the other nodes over a single hop 3 multi hop infrastructure based wireless networks which include a base station but in which some wireless nodes may have to relay their communication through other wireless nodes e.g. wireless mesh networks and 4 multi hop infrastructure less wireless networks that do not include a base station and in which nodes may have to relay messages among several other nodes in order to reach a destination. Infrastructure less wireless networks may also be referred to as ad hoc wireless networks.

As previously noted in infrastructure based networks a base station may send and receive data between associated wireless host s . Wireless LANs have become a particularly ubiquitous form of infrastructure based wireless networks with one particular class of standards emerging as the dominant form the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN also known as WiFi. Various IEEE 802.11 standards for wireless LAN technology exist including 802.11b 802.11a and 802.11g and 802.11n which share various characteristics such as use of the same medium access protocol and frame structure for their link layer frames. However these various standards differ in the frequency ranges in which they operate and their respective data rates such that each standard offers advantages and disadvantages over the other standards.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate to systems methods apparatuses and computer readable media for enabling seamless wireless network roaming among wireless devices. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described herein primarily through reference to the IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN architecture WiFi the disclosure is not so limited. Embodiments of the disclosure are applicable to any wireless technology that involves scanning for information that may include one or more potential matches for establishing a wireless connection between two or more devices. Further while embodiments of the disclosure may be described primarily through reference to infrastructure based networks embodiments of the disclosure are equally applicable to any form of wireless network including infrastructure less wireless networks.

Throughout this disclosure the term wireless network shall refer to any network comprising two or more devices that are capable of communicating at least in part via a wireless communicative link. While embodiments of the disclosure are generally applicable to any type of wireless network specific embodiments of the disclosure may be described herein using the IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN infrastructure as an exemplary wireless network.

A fundamental building block of the IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN architecture is the basic service set BSS which may contain one or more wireless stations or hosts and a central base station known as an access point AP . An AP of more than one BSS may connect to an interconnection device such as a switch or router which in turn may connect to the broader Internet architecture. Further an extended service set ESS is a set of one or more interconnected BSSs and integrated local area network s that appear as a single BSS to the logical link control layer at any wireless device associated with one of the BSSs forming part of the ESS.

Embodiments of the disclosure are described more fully hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings in which certain embodiments of the disclosure are shown. This disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the disclosure to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Example embodiments of the disclosure will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures.

The wireless networks A D may include respective base stations or access points APs A D. The APs A D may each be connected to a network infrastructure e.g. the Internet which may include one or more packet switches and one or more wired or wireless communication links. The APs A D may broadcast respective beacon signals A D also known as beacon frames in the IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN architecture that are received by respective wireless devices or hosts A D within respective coverage areas A D or basic service areas BSAs in WiFi parlance .

Under the WiFi set of standards each AP is assigned a service set identifier SSID that identifies the associated wireless LAN to wireless stations within its coverage area and a channel number that represents a portion of the frequency band in which the IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN architecture operates. An AP periodically broadcasts a beacon frame that includes among other information the AP s SSID and MAC address. Wireless stations may passively scan the corresponding channels to detect beacon frames broadcast from one or more APs of wireless LANs. If the AP is part of an ESS the AP may broadcast a beacon signal that includes an extended service set identifier ESSID associated with the AP. For the purposes of this disclosure the term ESSID will be used to refer to a wireless network identifier associated with a corresponding wireless network. However it should be noted that the term ESSID as used herein also encompasses any one or more network identifier s in any form that may be used to identify a wireless network.

Referring again to in an exemplary wireless network C an AP C broadcasts a beacon signal C that is received by one or more wireless devices C within a coverage area C. The beacon signal C received by the one or more wireless devices C from the AP C may be an electromagnetic signal that is a combination of a degraded form of the original signal C broadcast by the AP C degraded as a result of attenuation and multipath propagation effects and interference from other sources i.e. noise . Signal to noise ratio SNR is a relative measure of the strength of the signal received by a wireless host in relation to noise received by the wireless host and may be used as a measure of the connection viability of the associated wireless network.

An exemplary wireless network D includes an AP D that broadcasts a beacon signal D that is received by one or more wireless devices D within a coverage area D. The coverage areas C and D include an overlapping region in which a wireless device is capable of receiving the beacon signals C and D broadcast by the APs C and D respectively. The wireless device may then choose which of the APs C and D with which to attempt to establish a connection. In the case of WiFi networks such a scenario may be referred to as a WiFi jungle e.g. a situation in which a wireless host receives a beacon frame from two or more APs such that the wireless host may choose one of the APs for association . Assuming that the wireless device attempts to establish a connection with the AP C the wireless device may send an association request frame to the AP C and the AP C may respond with an association response frame. Once the wireless device and the AP C are associated the wireless device may attempt to join a subnet to which the AP C belongs and in ay optionally execute authentication and encryption functions as may be required before and or as part of joining the subnet. Specifically the wireless device will send a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP discovery message into the subnet with which the AP C is associated via the AP C in order to obtain an Internet Protocol IP address on the subnet Once the IP address is obtained other wireless devices will view the wireless device as another wireless host with an IP address within that subnet.

In order to create an association with the AP C the wireless device may be required to authenticate itself. The IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN standards provide various alternative for authentication and access. One approach is to permit access based on a MAC address of the wireless device. Other approaches are to employ usernames and passwords certificates or Subscriber Identity Module SIM cards. Under one or more of these approaches the AP may communicate with a centralized authentication server relaying information between the wireless device that is attempting to authenticate itself and the authentication server using various communication protocols.

A wireless device may passively scan one or more frequency ranges for beacon signals broadcast by access points of wireless networks. For example a wireless device that supports a connection under the IEEE. 802.11b WiFi standard may passively scan one or more channels within a frequency range from 2.4 2.485 GHz to detect beacon signals broadcast on the scanned channels. Beacon signals received by a wireless host may include among other things an SSID or ESSID and a MAC address that may identify the AP that generated the beacon signal.

A global roaming network may include hundreds or even thousands of component wireless networks each with one more APs having an associated ESSID. In order for a wireless device to be able to seamlessly connect to any particular wireless network within the global roaming network a corresponding number of wireless profiles may need to be provisioned into the wireless device. Provisioning hundreds or even thousands of wireless profiles into a wireless device s native repository in order to provide connectivity across the global roaming network has several disadvantages. As used herein the term provisioning may refer to providing services and or content to a wireless device. In the case of wireless profiles the term provisioning may refer to storing the wireless profile in or otherwise associating the wireless profile with a repository associated with the wireless device. The profile may include but is not limited to information to identify the network when available information necessary to authenticate and connect to the network or policies corresponding to the selection or use of the network. The repository may be located within the device or located externally from the device and accessible by the device. The repository may include any means for storing or organizing data.

For example a user of a wireless device often manually manages wireless profiles provisioned on the wireless device and may encounter difficulty in prioritizing and managing a large number of roaming wireless profiles provisioned into the native repository of the wireless device. Additionally the WiFi set of standards supports active scanning also known as active probing where a wireless host broadcasts a probe request frame that is received by all APs within a certain range of the wireless host. An AP may then respond to the probe request frame with a probe response frame at which point the wireless device may attempt to associate with the AP using the procedure previously described. If a large number of wireless profiles are cached in the native repository active scanning of each of these wireless profiles may generate excessive overhead and significantly delay the network selection and connection process for the wireless device.

Some or all of the components of the system may be provided as part of a wireless device. The system may include one or more processors that may be operatively coupled to at least one memory . The memory may include one or more volatile and or non volatile memory devices including but not limited to magnetic storage devices random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM double data rate DDR SDRAM DDR SDRAM RAM BUS DRAM RDRAM flash memory devices electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM non volatile RAM NVRAM universal serial bus USB removable memory or any combinations thereof.

The system may further include an operating system OS loaded into the memory . The OS may comprise any operating system now known in the art or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any version of Apple iOS any Android based operating systems any version of the Palm webOS operating system any version of the Windows Mobile operating system any version of the Windows Phone operating system any version of Blackberry OS any version of Windows operating system any version of Nokia s Symbian operating system any version of Nokia s Maemo operating system any version of MeeGo a Linux based operating system or any version of Samsung s bada operating system to name a few.

The memory may further comprise a primary connection module and a secondary connection module . The system may further comprise a repository that may store a data structure comprising each wireless network identifier e.g. ESSID included in a respective beacon signal received by the wireless device a primary repository which may also referred to herein as a native repository that stores one or more primary wireless profiles corresponding to one or more wireless networks and one or more secondary repositories A C which may also be referred to herein as roaming repositories that store one or more secondary wireless profiles. The primary repository and the one or more secondary repositories A C may correspond to logical or physical partitions within the wireless device or may be provided externally to the wireless device and accessible by the wireless device. The terms primary and secondary are used herein merely to distinguish between modules and to distinguish between repository and repositories A C and to distinguish between different connection cycles described more fully hereinafter and do not imply any particular ordering weighting or preference relating thereto.

The primary connection module may include traditional middleware or a connection manager that performs an automated connection process that may include querying the data structure of wireless network identifiers stored in repository against the one or more primary wireless profiles stored in the primary repository to determine if the primary repository stores one or more matching primary wireless profiles. A matching primary wireless profile may refer to a primary wireless profile stored in the primary repository that includes a wireless network identifier or other information that matches or corresponds to one of the wireless network identifiers in the data structure stored in repository . A profile which corresponds to a given network identifier also encompasses but is not limited to an entry which contains wildcard s or information relating to other fields advertised by or which can be queried from the network for the purposes of identifying a potential network with which to connect. Examples of such information may include but is not limited to one or more roaming consortiums Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP network identifiers or authentication domains. If the primary connection module determines that the primary repository stores one or more matching primary wireless profiles the primary connection module may initiate a primary connection cycle described in more detail through reference to in which the primary connection module attempts to establish a connection between the wireless device and one or more of the wireless networks corresponding to respective matching primary wireless profile s until a connection is established with one of the wireless networks or the connection process fails for each matching primary wireless profile.

The secondary connection module may monitor the primary connection cycle performed by the primary connection module via one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The secondary connection module may include enhanced client software provided in various forms including but not limited to enhanced middleware an enhanced connection manager or a separate client application. By monitoring the primary connection cycle performed by the primary connection module the secondary connection module may identify when the primary connection cycle has failed to establish a connection between the wireless device and a wireless network or when no matching primary wireless profile s are found and may proceed to query the data structure of wireless network identifiers against at least one of the one or more secondary repositories A C to determine if one or more matching secondary wireless profiles are stored therein. A matching secondary wireless profile may refer to a wireless profile provisioned in at least one of the secondary repositories A C that includes a wireless network identifier or other information that matches or corresponds to one of the wireless network identifiers included in the data structure of repository . As previously noted a profile which corresponds to a given network identifier also encompasses but is not limited to an entry which contains wildcard s or information relating to other fields advertised by or which can be queried from the network for the purposes of identifying a potential network with which to connect. The data structure storing the respective wireless network identifiers included in received beacon signals may be for example an ESSID scan list.

If the secondary connection module determines that one or more matching secondary wireless profiles are stored in at least one of the one or more secondary repositories A C then the secondary connection module may initiate a secondary connection cycle described in more detail through reference to FIGS. and in which the secondary connection module attempts to establish a connection between the wireless device and one or more of the wireless networks corresponding to respective matching secondary wireless profile s until a connection is established between the wireless device and one of the wireless networks based on a corresponding matching secondary wireless profile or until the secondary connection cycle is performed for and fails for each matching secondary wireless profile.

In the event that a connection is established between the wireless device and a wireless network based on a corresponding matching secondary wireless profile where for example successful establishment of a connection includes successful association authentication and DHCP completion the corresponding matching secondary wireless profile may be duplicated into the primary repository in order to accelerate future connections to that wireless network and to enable a user of the wireless device to configure his her preferences with respect to the connected network. In connection with duplicating the matching secondary wireless profile that forms the basis for a successful wireless connection into the primary repository as a primary wireless profile an indicator may be associated with the profile that provides an indication that the profile is a

secondary wireless profile e.g. a roaming profile . As will be described in more detail hereinafter the secondary connection cycle may be performed by the secondary connection module based on connection priorities assigned to the wireless networks connection priorities assigned to the matching secondary wireless profiles and or connection priorities assigned to the one or more secondary repositories A C.

Upon generation of the data structure comprising the respective wireless network identifiers the primary connection module may scan the primary repository for matching primary wireless profiles at block . As previously described a matching primary wireless profile is a wireless profile stored in the primary or native repository associated with the wireless device and which comprises a wireless network identifier e.g. ESSID or other information that matches or corresponds to a wireless network identifier of an available wireless network e.g. a wireless network identifier included in a beacon signal received by the wireless device .

At block a determination may be made as to whether the primary repository stores at least one matching primary wireless profile. If it is determined that the primary repository does not store at least one matching primary wireless profile the secondary connection module which may monitor or which may be triggered by the connection process performed by the primary connection module via one or more existing or new APIs may scan at block one or more of the secondary repositories A C for matching secondary wireless profiles described in more detail hereinafter .

On the other hand if it is determined at block that the primary repository stores at least one matching primary wireless profile the primary connection module may perform a primary connection cycle at block . The primary connection cycle will be described in greater detail hereinafter through reference to . If it is determined at block that a connection was successfully established between the wireless device and a wireless network based on a corresponding matching primary wireless profile during the primary connection cycle then the process may end at block . On the other hand if it is determined at block that the primary connection cycle fails to establish a successful connection between the wireless device and a wireless network the secondary connection module may scan one or more of the secondary repositories A C for matching secondary wireless profiles at block . As previously described the secondary module may monitor the primary connection cycle performed by the primary connection module via existing or new APIs and may determine when the primary connection cycle fails to establish an automatic connection between the wireless device and a wireless network.

Upon scanning one or more of the secondary repositories A C for matching secondary wireless profile s a determination may be made at block as to whether at least one matching secondary wireless profile exists. As previously described a matching secondary wireless profile refers to a wireless profile stored in a secondary repository and which may include a wireless network identifier or other information that matches or corresponds to the wireless network identifier or other information associated with an AP of a wireless network e.g. the ESSID included in a received beacon signal . If at block it is determined that at least one matching secondary wireless profile exists the secondary connection module may initiate execution of a secondary connection cycle at block . The secondary connection cycle will be described in more detail hereinafter through reference to .

At block a determination may be made as to whether a successful connection was established during execution of the secondary connection cycle between the wireless device and a wireless network based on a corresponding matching secondary wireless profile. If it is determined that a successful connection was established the process may end at block . On the other hand if the secondary connection cycle is unsuccessful in establishing a connection between the wireless device and any one of the wireless networks corresponding to the matching secondary wireless profile s the wireless device may again scan for beacon signals received from AP s of wireless network s within range block . The data structure that may be generated at block may be periodically updated to include respective wireless network identifier s from newly received beacon signal s or to delete respective wireless network identifier s corresponding to wireless network s that are no longer within range of the wireless device.

At block a determination may be made as to whether a successful connection was established between the wireless device and the selected wireless network. A successful connection is established for example when the corresponding matching primary wireless profile includes appropriate authentication credential s e.g. user name and password for authentication by the selected wireless network an IP address is received via DHCP and Internet connectivity is available. If it is determined that a successful connection was established the primary connection cycle may end at block . Alternatively if it is determined that a successful connection was not established between the wireless device and the selected wireless network the primary connection cycle may return to block and a determination may once again be made as to whether a previously unselected wireless network exists. If the primary connection cycle fails to establish a successful connection between the wireless device and any one of the wireless networks corresponding to a matching primary wireless profile the primary connection cycle may end at block .

The secondary connection module may monitor the primary connection cycle executed by the primary connection module via one or more existing or new APIs and upon failure of the primary connection cycle to establish a successful wireless connection may scan one or more of the secondary repositories A C for matching secondary wireless profile s .

Upon selection of a wireless network a determination may be made at block as to whether the secondary connection module has attempted to establish a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network based on each corresponding matching secondary wireless profile. In various embodiments of the disclosure this determination may be skipped during a first iteration of the secondary connection cycle for a particular selected wireless network. If it is determined that a connection has been attempted for each matching secondary wireless profile corresponding to the selected wireless network the secondary connection cycle may return to block and a determination may again be made as to whether a previously unselected wireless network exists.

If it is determined that at least one matching secondary profile exists that corresponds to the selected wireless network and that the secondary connection cycle has not attempted to establish within a current or a recent execution of the cycle a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network a previously unselected matching secondary wireless profile that corresponds to the selected wireless network may be selected at block . In accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure more than one matching secondary wireless profile may correspond to a wireless network represented in the ESSID data structure with each secondary profile including the network identifier or other information relating to the corresponding wireless network and potentially different authentication credentials. In addition for some security protocols such as WiFi Protected Access WPA and WiFi Protected Access II WPA2 which were developed in response to serious weaknesses uncovered in the previous system known as Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP credentials may be shared across many wireless profiles. The provisioning of secondary wireless profiles may be organized so as to minimize the duplication of credentials which in turn may minimize provisioning package size and simplify subsequent updates of credentials across several secondary wireless profiles. The use of wildcards or other information relating to other fields advertised by or which can be queried from a wireless network for the purposes of identifying potential connectivity with the network may likewise offer greater flexibility and or reduce provisioning package size.

In the context of the secondary connection cycle a previously unselected matching secondary wireless profile may refer to a matching secondary wireless profile for which the secondary connection cycle has not attempted or failed to establish a connection between the wireless device and the corresponding wireless network during a current or recent execution of the cycle or since a most recent trigger event. Exemplary trigger events include but are not limited to a defined global timeout a defined profile timeout absence of the network identifier ESSID included in the profile from the ESSID data structure for a defined period of time or a new instantiation of the secondary connection module .

At block the secondary connection module may attempt to establish a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network based on the selected matching secondary wireless profile that corresponds to the selected wireless network.

At block a determination may be made as to whether a successful connection was established between the wireless device and the selected wireless network based on the selected matching secondary wireless profile corresponding to the selected wireless network. A connection may be successfully established when for example the selected matching secondary wireless profile includes one or more authentication credentials accepted by the selected wireless network and receives an IP address within a subnet associated with the wireless network. If it is determined that a connection is successfully established at block the secondary connection cycle may end at block . If it is determined at block that a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network has not been successfully established based on the selected matching secondary wireless profile the secondary connection cycle may return to block and a determination may be made as to whether a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network has been attempted during the current or a recent execution of the secondary connection cycle for each matching secondary wireless profile corresponding to the selected wireless network.

If it is determined that a connection has been attempted for each matching secondary wireless profile corresponding to the selected wireless network the secondary connection cycle may return to block and a determination may again be made as to whether a previously unselected wireless network exists. On the other hand if it is determined that at least one matching secondary wireless profile exists that corresponds to the selected wireless network and for which a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network has not been attempted during the current or recent execution of the secondary connection cycle a previously unselected matching secondary profile may be chosen and the secondary connection cycle may proceed as previously described.

If it is determined at block that a previously unselected wireless network exists a previously unselected wireless network having a highest assigned connection priority among all previously unselected wireless networks may be selected block . The secondary connection module may comprise computer program instructions for assigning connection priorities to wireless networks. In one or more embodiments of the disclosure connection priorities assigned to wireless networks may be thought of as connection priorities assigned to wireless profiles that correspond to the wireless networks e.g. matching secondary wireless profiles . A connection priority assigned to a particular wireless network may be based on one or more criteria including but not limited to a received indication of the signal strength of the wireless network a signal to noise ratio SNR of the wireless network a duration a metric associated with the wireless network has exceeded one or more criteria a connection quality previously achieved on the network. by the current wireless device or other wireless device s metric s advertised by the wireless network a frequency band over which the wireless network transmits and receives data or a channel utilization of the wireless network e.g. a measure of the traffic on the wireless network . These criteria may be weighted manually by the user of the wireless device author may be assessed according to one or more algorithms in order to determine an order in which the secondary connection module attempts to establish connections between the wireless device and the wireless networks.

Upon selecting at block a previously unselected wireless network having a highest assigned connection priority among all previously unselected wireless networks a determination may then be made at block as to whether a connection has been attempted for each matching secondary wireless profile that corresponds to the selected wireless network. As previously noted more than one matching secondary wireless profile may correspond to a particular wireless network within range. As such connection priorities may also be assigned to the matching secondary wireless profiles in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. For example if five different matching secondary wireless profiles correspond to a particular selected wireless network the secondary connection module may attempt to establish a connection between the wireless device and the selected wireless network in order based on the connection priority assigned to each matching secondary wireless profile. Connection priorities may be assigned manually by a user of the wireless device or through an automated process.

At block of the secondary connection cycle a determination may be made as to whether a connection has been attempted for each matching secondary wireless profile corresponding to the selected wireless network. If it is determined that connection has been attempted and failed for each matching secondary wireless profile corresponding to the selected wireless network during the current or a recent execution of the secondary connection cycle the secondary connection cycle may return to block and a determination may again be made as to whether a previously unselected wireless network exists. If it is determined that at least one matching secondary wireless profile exists that corresponds to the selected wireless network and for which a connection has not been attempted during the current or a recent execution of the secondary connection cycle or since a most recent trigger event a previously unselected matching secondary wireless profile having a highest assigned connection priority among all previously unselected matching secondary wireless profiles may be selected block and the secondary connection cycle may proceed similarly to the secondary connection cycle .

In secondary connection cycle if it is determined at block that at least one previously unselected wireless network exists a previously unselected wireless network that corresponds to a matching secondary profile stored in a secondary repository having a highest assigned connection priority may be selected block . For example assume previously unselected wireless networks A and B exist. That is wireless networks A and B have matching secondary wireless profiles corresponding thereto based on which the secondary connection module has not attempted to establish a connection between the wireless device and the corresponding wireless network during the current or a recent execution of the secondary connection cycle or since a trigger event. Further assume that wireless network A has corresponding matching secondary wireless profiles A A and A and that wireless network B has corresponding matching secondary wireless profiles B B and B. Matching secondary wireless profiles Al A and A may all be stored in a same secondary repository or may be stored in one or more separate secondary repositories. Similarly matching secondary wireless profiles B B and B may all be stored in a same secondary repository or may be stored in one or more separate secondary repositories.

The secondary connection module may determine which of matching secondary wireless profiles A A A B B and B is stored in a secondary repository having the highest assigned connection priority and may then select the corresponding wireless network. As noted earlier the connection priority assigned to a secondary repository may be based at least in part on a geographical region served by a service provider associated with the secondary repository and or a current state or context of the wireless device such as for example a current geographical location of the wireless device. For exemplary purposes assume that A A and A are stored in a secondary repository A having a higher assigned connection priority than a secondary repository B in which B B and B are stored because A is associated with a service provider that serves the geographical region in which the wireless device is currently located. Even if the service provider associated with B also serves the geographical region in which the wireless device is currently located A may nonetheless may assigned a higher connection priority because the service provider A may offer a more extensive wireless network or more reliable connectivity within the current geographical region in which the wireless device is located. As such based on the higher connection priority assigned to A wireless network A may be selected and the secondary connection module may attempt to establish a connection between the wireless device and wireless network A using matching secondary wireless profiles A A and A before attempting to establish a connection with the wireless device and wireless network B. Matching secondary wireless profiles may be selected in a particular order based on connection priorities assigned thereto as previously described through reference to .

In accordance with one or more additional embodiments of the disclosure the connection priorities assigned to a particular wireless network secondary wireless profile and or secondary repository may be dynamically updated based on one or more criteria. For example as a mobile user of a wireless device moves from one geographical region to another the connection priority assigned to a particular secondary repository may increase or decrease depending on whether the service provider associated with the secondary repository serves the geographical region in which the mobile device may be located.

Further in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure a means for provisioning and remediating updating wireless profiles on a wireless device may be provided. The means for provisioning and remediating wireless profiles may be combined with an update to the secondary connection module e.g. an enhanced client software update or may be provided via a separate provisioning channel. Examples of the former include but are not limited to traditional app store or app market updates or in application prompting of updated software. Examples of the latter include but are not limited to in application download from a secure website Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM Open Mobile Alliance Client Provisioning OMA CP ActiveSync or Technical Report 069 TR 069 . An example of an update to a wireless profile stored in a secondary repository may include a change to the credentials required for authentication by a particular wireless network. If the wireless profile s associated with the wireless network have already been duplicated into the primary repository any updates to the wireless profile s in the secondary repository must be synced with the primary repository.

Updated policies for a given secondary repository may be encrypted to permit access to only the service provider associated with that repository. In this manner accidental or intentional corruption of a secondary repository associated with another service provider may be prevented.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure the secondary connection module may continue to monitor the primary connection module via existing or new API call s during execution of the secondary connection cycle. If the primary connection module begins to execute the primary connection cycle while the secondary connection module is executing the secondary connection cycle such as for example when beacon signals are received from new wireless network s that are within range of the wireless device and thus new ESSIDs are present in the data structure the secondary connection module may suspend the secondary connection cycle and move into an idle state so as not to interfere with the primary connection cycle. If the primary connection cycle is unable to establish a connection between the wireless device and any of the new wireless networks within range the secondary connection module may resume or restart execution of the secondary connection cycle.

Embodiments described herein may be implemented using hardware software and or firmware for example to perform the methods and or operations described herein. Certain embodiments described herein may be provided as a tangible non transitory machine readable medium storing machine executable instructions that if executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the methods and or operations described herein. The tangible machine readable medium may include but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks compact disk read only memories CD ROMs compact disk rewritables CD RWs and magneto optical disks semiconductor devices such as read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs such as dynamic and static RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memories magnetic or optical cards or any type of tangible media suitable for storing electronic instructions. The machine may include any suitable processing or computing platform device or system and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The instructions may include any suitable type of code and may be implemented using any suitable programming language. In certain embodiments machine executable instructions for performing the methods and or operations described herein may be embodied in software embodied in any of one or more higher level programming languages capable of being compiled or interpreted microcode or firmware.

Various features aspects and embodiments have been described herein. The features aspects and embodiments are susceptible to combination with one another as well as to variation and modification as will be understood by those having skill in the art. The present disclosure should therefore be considered to encompass such combinations variations and modifications.

The terms and expressions which have been employed herein are used as terms of description and not of limitation. In the use of such terms and expressions there is no intention of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claims. Other modifications variations and alternatives are also possible. Accordingly the claims are intended to cover all such equivalents.

While certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and various embodiments it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. This written description uses examples to disclose certain embodiments of the disclosure including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice certain embodiments of the disclosure including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of certain embodiments of the disclosure is defined in the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

