---

title: Multi-persona computing based on real time user recognition
abstract: A computing device may configure one or more applications on the computing device for a specific user in response to identifying that the specific user is operating the device and may make relevant content available to such applications. The identification of the specific user may be performed using a signal from one or more user identification sensors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09207945&OS=09207945&RS=09207945
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09207945
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
Many electronic computing devices may be shared by multiple users wherein different users of a device may have preferred configurations of applications on the electronic computing device. Additionally different users of a device may have private data and or applications that they do not wish to share with the other users of the electronic computing device. For example a family may have a computer that is shared between adults and children. The children may enjoy playing games visiting websites for young audiences enjoying media content attractive to young audiences and or the like. The adults on the other hand may use the system to read news perform accounting watch movies in the evening and or the like. Each time the operator of the computer changes users may interrupt another person s configuration. For example if a first user is watching a movie and decides mid movie to let a second user use the computer the second user may close the movie application or interrupt the location of the movie that the first user was watching. When the first user returns she may need to set up the movie application again to where she was before the second user interrupted the movie. Furthermore the new operator of the computer may well be exposed to content from a previous user that is not suitable or permissible to them due to age occupation or preferences.

Embodiments of the present invention may enable multiple users to share a computing device with individual configurations. Specifically embodiments of the present invention automatically reconfigure a computing device for a specific user based upon an automatic detection that the operator of the device is the specific user. Awareness that a device is being operated by a specific user is referred to in this disclosure as persona aware. In some of the various embodiments persona aware is also detects a specific user operating a device in a specific context such as at home or at work.

After a while the operator of electronic device may change from the first user to a second user . The sensor s may be used to determine that the user of the device has changed from the first user as illustrated in to the second user as illustrated in . In response to this change device may change to a second configuration represented in this figure as profile that reflects the personal configuration of applications and or the like on computing device for the second user . Additionally the state of the applications associated with a profile may be stored for later use.

Sometime later the operator of electronic device may change again from the second user back to the first user . The sensor s may again be used to determine that the user of the device has changed from the second user as illustrated in to the first user as illustrated in . In response to this change device may change back to the first configuration represented in this figure as the profile . Additionally the state of the applications associated with profile may be stored for later use. In some of the various embodiments the profile and or the state of the machine associated with the profile may be used to restore the applications and or their state to when the first user passed the device to second user .

In several of the embodiments detection of a user includes the identification of a user in a contextual realm. For example a person detected using a device at work may be identified as one user whereas the same person detected using the device at home may be identified as a second user. This context aware identification may be referred to as a persona. Therefore some of the various embodiments may not only detect one user passing the device to another user but also detect a single user for example moving from a personal persona to a work persona or from one type of work persona to a different work persona. For example if a person works on multiple projects the system may switch the computing environment when switching from one persona to another persona.

User identification sensors may identify a specific user by collecting user identification data that represents characteristics of the person . In many embodiments the user identification sensors may collect user identification data using an identification device reader such as a radio frequency identification tag reader a smart card reader or any other hardware device that a system may use to identify a user and or provide assurance of truthfulness in an identity assertion e.g. Yubi key available from Yubico Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. . User identification data may also include information collected about the user using a device such as a biometric sensor a face recognition sensor a behavioral analysis sensor and or the like. In many embodiments the user identification sensors may involve hardware such as a camera a microphone a fingerprint reader a palm reader a retinal scanner a smart card reader a face recognition system a voice recognition system a DNA analysis system a behavior analysis system and or the like. Basically the sensors may be configured to collect and analyze information that may be used to determine the identity of the user of an electronic device.

According to some of the various embodiments a user identification module may be used to identify a specific user based on a signal from at least one of the one or more user identification sensors . The signal may include user identification data . The user identification module may process or further process the user identification data . For example the user identification module may perform facial recognition analysis using user identification data obtained from a camera sensor to identify a specific user . Similarly the user identification module may perform voice recognition analysis using the user identification data obtained from a microphone to identify a specific user . In yet another example the identification module may perform a timing analysis using the user identification data obtained from a keyboard to identify a specific user through their characteristic typing style.

In some of the various embodiments the sensors and the user identification module may be integrated. In other words the sensors and the user identification module may comprise an identification system that produces a user identifier associated with user . An example integrated system may include a biometric identification system a non biometric identification system and or the like.

Biometric identification system s measure different aspects of human physiology chemistry or behavior for biometric identification and or authentication . The selection of a particular biometric for use in a specific application may involve weighting several factors. The biometric identification system may need to measure a trait that a user of the electronic system should possess. The trait should be sufficiently different for individuals who may use the electronic device may be distinguished from one another. Some traits may vary over time. Therefore a trait may be monitored that will be reasonably invariant over time with respect to a matching mechanism. The biometric system may collect data related to traits that are measurable. It is envisioned that the measured traits may expand over time as technology evolves and that sensors to measure these new traits may be employed as described herein.

A biometric system may operate in a verification mode where the system performs a one to one comparison of a captured biometric with a specific template stored in a biometric database in order to verify the individual s identity. Positive recognition may be used as a verification mode to prevent multiple people from using same identity.

A biometric system may operate in an identification mode where the system may perform a one to many comparison against a biometric database in attempt to establish the identity of an unknown individual. The system may succeed in identifying the individual if the comparison of the biometric sample to a template in the database falls within a previously set threshold. An identification mode may be used either for positive recognition so that the user does not have to provide any information about the template to be used or for negative recognition of the person where the system establishes whether the person is who she implicitly or explicitly denies to be.

A user such as user may need to enroll in the biometric system the first time an individual uses the biometric system. During this enrollment biometric information from the user may be captured and stored. In subsequent uses biometric information may be detected and compared with the stored information. Depending on the electronic system the storage and retrieval of the biometric data may be secured. The sensor s may be the interface between the real world and the system and may be tasked to acquire the user identification data . The sensors may be selected according to the biometric trait. For example if the biometric trait is a face the sensor may include an image acquisition sensor and or system . The sensor and or user identification module may be tasked with pre processing tasks such as removing artifacts from the sensor enhancing the input e.g. removing background noise normalizing the sensed data and or the like. The sensor and or user identification module may extract identification features. The extracted features may be analyzed for an identification match. For example extracted features may be compared against a template of known features for different users. A template may be a synthesis of the relevant characteristics extracted from the source. Elements of the biometric measurement that are not used in a comparison mechanism may be discarded in the template to reduce the file size and to protect the identity of the enrollee.

A determination of an active user of the system may performed by estimating a distance between the extracted features and the template features using a technique such as a Hamming distance algorithm or the like.

Selection of a biometric sensor s may depend upon characteristic measurements and user requirements. Considerations may include performance acceptability circumvention robustness population coverage size identity theft deterrence in selecting a particular biometric. Selection of biometrics may also consider sensor availability device availability computational time and reliability cost sensor area and power consumption.

In some of the various embodiments multi sensor biometric system may be used. Multi sensor biometrics may fuse information obtained from different sensors to overcome the limitations of single biometric sensor systems. Multi sensor biometric systems may operate in different modes such as a serial mode a parallel mode a hierarchical mode a pipelining mode a sequential mode and or the like. Factors from diverse sensors may effectively be combined to increase the probability of making a correct match. For example a system with a camera and a microphone may perform both facial recognition and voice recognition. User determinations from each of the recognition techniques may be weighted given a confidence weighting. In cases of conflicting user determinations the confidence weighting may be used to determine which sensor is providing the most accurate user determination and that determination may be used to generate the user identifier .

Application configuration module may configure one or more applications through for identified user based upon the user identifier . The user identifier may provide information to application configuration module as to the current user of the system . The application configuration module may communicate the user information to application s . The user identifier may be communicated to application configuration module at various times such as on a periodic basis when the user changes by request and or the like.

In some of the various embodiments the application configuration module may store configuration information for one or more of the applications . In this case the application configuration module may communicate the configuration information to application s through a link . In yet other embodiments applications may store the configuration information. In these embodiments the link may communicate the user information to applications .

In yet other embodiments the application configuration module may communicate information over the link to applications with sequences of instructions that will configure the application for the specific user . These instructions may be application specific. For example some applications may require detailed configuration instruction whereas other applications may reconfigure with only a simple instruction.

For some embodiments there may be multiple instances of the same program each configured for a different user. When the user changes the application configuration module may merely deactivate one of the applications and activate the other application. For example two users of system may both run the same email program but desire to not share their email with each other. The system may activate only one email program at a time namely the email program that is configured for the current user. In this way the current user only interacts with her own email application. Similarly two users of system may both run the same media player while desiring to keep the status of their media player to themselves. The system may activate only one media player at a time namely the media player that is configured for the current user. In this way the current user only interacts with her own media player application. So when for example when a first user returns to system after a second user has been using the system the first user may continue to enjoy their media content from the point where they last stopped. In yet another embodiment the player application may be a single application instance where the context of the player is switched to match the user. For example the context may include the file being accessed and the location in that file. This context may be switched when the active user changes achieving the same end user experience without switching the executing program.

According to some of the various embodiments application configurations for specific users may vary depending upon determinable factors such as time of day location day of the week holidays and or the like. As a time based configuration example a user may desire a first configuration during work hours and another configuration during evenings and weekends. As a location based configuration example a user may desire a specific configuration when the device is at a work location and another configuration when the device is at a relaxation location.

A virtual machine monitor may be a host program that allows a single computer to support multiple execution environments. In some embodiments all the users see their systems as self contained computers isolated from other users even though every user is served by the same machine. In some of the various embodiments virtual machines may operate inside other virtual machines. In this case it is possible for multiple users to share a basic machine however certain applications may run in a virtual machine in the basic machine. In yet other embodiments the basic machine may be an underlying operating system and virtual machines may operate as applications under the operating system. In some embodiments the virtual machine monitor and the operating system may be combined.

Also illustrated in is an optional secure storage module . Whenever a user becomes the user of the system the application configuration module may communicate user information to the secured data module . The secure data module may store private data associated with the some or all of the various users of the system. The secure data module may provide a mechanism for the private data associated with the current user to be accessed over link . Secure data module may be implemented using hardware and or machine instructions in combination with hardware. Some of the secure data module embodiments may include encryption and decryption mechanisms to secure the private data. Some of the secure data module embodiments may include secure data chipsets that include a Manageability Engine ME . An ME may be a controlled area of a chipset that is tamper proof and operates in isolation from the operating system for added security. One such ME engine is available from Intel Corp. of Santa Clara Calif. Algorithms may be implemented that run in the ME performing the operations that link a computer to a validated application site and or the like and ensure strong authentication.

Persona aware applications may be written to reconfigure themselves when informed over links that a change in user has occurred. The persona aware applications may use an application programming interface API an application Binary Interface and or the like to communicate persona information with the operating system . An API may be a specification intended to be used as an interface by software components to communicate with each other. Thus the API may include specifications for routines data structures object classes and variables. The API specification may take many forms including an International Standard such as POSIX or vendor documentation such as the Microsoft Windows API or the libraries of a programming language e.g. Standard Template Library in C or Java API. The API may differ from an application binary interface ABI in that an API may be source code based while an ABI may be a binary interface. For instance POSIX is an API while the Linux Standard Base is an ABI.

The non persona aware applications may operate through a persona aware service . In general non persona aware applications may be legacy programs that are not written to operate in a persona aware system. When the operating system receives information that the active user has changed the operating system may communicate this information over link . The persona aware service may keep track of the configurations for the non persona aware applications and effectuate the reconfiguration of the non persona aware applications over links in accordance with the user change information.

Some of the embodiments of the present invention may include a larger system. Example systems in addition to the components or modules already discussed e.g. user identification module application configuration module and or the like may further include components such as input port s memory ies processor s display s and or the like. For example an input port may provide access to one or more of the user identification sensors . A memory may provide for storage of operating system s application s and or the like. A processor may provide a mechanism for executing the operating system s application s and or the like. A display may present the output from operating system s application s and or the like.

Referring to a first user may be monitored using signal s from one or more user identification sensors at . The first user may be identified employing the user identification sensor s at . Applications in a device may be configured for the first user in response to the identification at .

The first user may lend the device to a second user. Referring to the second user of the device may be identified employing one or more of the user identification sensor s at . First application status information associated with the applications configured used and or the like for the first user may be saved at . Application s for the second user may be reconfigured at .

The second user may return the device back to the first user. Referring to the first user of the device may be identified employing one or more of the user identification sensor s at . Second application status information associated with the applications configured used and or the like for the second user may be saved at . Application s for the first user may be reconfigured at . Whenever applications are configured for the first user a first user specific storage may be made available and a second user specific storage may be made unavailable. Similarly whenever applications are configured for the second user the second user specific storage may be made available and the second user specific storage may be made unavailable.

The processor is shown including execution logic having a set of execution units through N. Some embodiments may include a number of execution units dedicated to specific functions or sets of functions. Other embodiments may include only one execution unit or one execution unit that can perform a particular function. The illustrated execution logic performs the operations specified by code instructions.

After completion of execution of the operations specified by the code instructions back end logic retires the instructions of the code . In one embodiment the processor allows out of order execution but requires in order retirement of instructions. Retirement logic may take a variety of forms as known to those of skill in the art e.g. re order buffers or the like . In this manner the processor core is transformed during execution of the code at least in terms of the output generated by the decoder the hardware registers and tables utilized by the register renaming logic and any registers not shown modified by the execution logic .

Although not illustrated in a processing element may include other elements on chip with the processor core . For example a processing element may include memory control logic along with the processor core . The processing element may include I O control logic and or may include I O control logic integrated with memory control logic. The processing element may also include one or more caches.

Referring now to shown is a block diagram of a system embodiment in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a multiprocessor system that includes a first processing element and a second processing element . While two processing elements and are shown it is to be understood that an embodiment of system may also include only one such processing element.

System is illustrated as a point to point interconnect system wherein the first processing element and second processing element are coupled via a point to point interconnect . It should be understood that any or all of the interconnects illustrated in may be implemented as a multi drop bus rather than point to point interconnect.

As shown in each of processing elements and may be multicore processors including first and second processor cores i.e. processor cores and and processor cores and . Such cores may be configured to execute instruction code in a manner similar to that discussed above in connection with .

Each processing element may include at least one shared cache . The shared cache may store data e.g. instructions that are utilized by one or more components of the processor such as the cores and respectively. For example the shared cache may locally cache data stored in a memory for faster access by components of the processor. In one or more embodiments the shared cache may include one or more mid level caches such as level 2 L2 level 3 L3 level 4 L4 or other levels of cache a last level cache LLC and or combinations thereof

While shown with only two processing elements it is to be understood that the scope of the present invention is not so limited. In other embodiments one or more additional processing elements may be present in a given processor. Alternatively one or more of processing elements may be an element other than a processor such as an accelerator or a field programmable gate array. For example additional processing element s may include additional processors s that are the same as a first processor additional processor s that are heterogeneous or asymmetric to processor a first processor accelerators such as e.g. graphics accelerators or digital signal processing DSP units field programmable gate arrays or any other processing element. There can be a variety of differences between the processing elements in terms of a spectrum of metrics of merit including architectural microarchitectural thermal power consumption characteristics and the like. These differences may effectively manifest themselves as asymmetry and heterogeneity amongst the processing elements . For at least one embodiment the various processing elements may reside in the same die package.

First processing element may further include memory controller logic MC and point to point P P interfaces and . Similarly second processing element may include a MC and P P interfaces and . As shown in MC s and couple the processors to respective memories namely a memory and a memory which may be portions of main memory locally attached to the respective processors. While the MC logic and is illustrated as integrated into the processing elements for alternative embodiments the MC logic may be discrete logic outside the processing elements rather than integrated therein.

The first processing element and the second processing element may be coupled to an I O subsystem via P P interconnects and respectively. As shown in the I O subsystem includes P P interfaces and . Furthermore I O subsystem includes an interface to couple I O subsystem with a high performance graphics engine . In one embodiment bus may be used to couple graphics engine to I O subsystem . Alternately a point to point interconnect may couple these components.

In turn I O subsystem may be coupled to a first bus via an interface . In one embodiment the first bus may be a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus or a bus such as a PCI Express bus or another third generation I O interconnect bus although the scope of the present invention is not so limited.

As shown in various I O devices such as sensor s may be coupled to the first bus along with a bus bridge which may couple the first bus to a second bus . In one embodiment the second bus may be a low pin count LPC bus. Various devices may be coupled to the second bus including for example a keyboard mouse communication device s which may in turn be in communication with a computer network not shown and a data storage unit such as a disk drive or other mass storage device which may include code in one embodiment. The code may include instructions for performing embodiments of one or more of the methods described above. Thus the illustrated code may implement the logic architecture illustrated in through and could be similar to the code already discussed. Further an audio I O may be coupled to second bus .

Note that other embodiments are contemplated. For example instead of the point to point architecture of a system may implement a multi drop bus or another such communication topology. Also the elements of may alternatively be partitioned using more or fewer integrated chips than shown in .

Examples may therefore include a system having an input port to access one or more user identification sensors a memory for storing an operating system and the one or more applications a processor to execute at least operating system and at least one of the one or more applications and a user identification module to identify a specific user using at least one of the one or more user identification sensors. The system may also have an application configuration module to configure at least one of the one or more applications for the specific user and a display for presenting the output of at least one of the one or more applications.

Examples may also include an apparatus having one or more user identification sensors and an identification module to identify a specific user based on a signal from at least one of the one or more user identification sensors. The apparatus may also have an application configuration module to configure one or more applications for the specific user.

Examples may also include a method that involves monitoring a first user based on a signal from one or more user identification sensors and identifying the first user employing at least one of the one or more user identification sensors. The method can also provide for configuring one or more applications on a computing machine for the first user.

Examples may also include at least one non transitory machine readable medium comprising one or more instructions which if executed by a processor cause a computer to monitor a first user using one or more user identification sensors. The instructions if executed can also cause a computer to identify the first user employing at least one of the one or more user identification sensors and configure one or more applications on a computing machine for the first user.

In this specification a and an and similar phrases are to be interpreted as at least one and one or more. References to an embodiment in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment.

Many of the elements described in the disclosed embodiments may be implemented as modules. A module is defined here as an isolatable element that performs a defined function and has a defined interface to other elements. The modules described in this disclosure may be implemented in hardware a combination of hardware and software firmware wetware i.e. hardware with a biological element or a combination thereof all of which are behaviorally equivalent. For example modules may be implemented using computer hardware in combination with software routine s written in a computer language such as C C Fortran Java Basic Matlab or the like or a modeling simulation program such as Simulink Stateflow GNU Octave or LabVIEW MathScript. Additionally it may be possible to implement modules using physical hardware that incorporates discrete or programmable analog digital and or quantum hardware. Examples of programmable hardware include computers microcontrollers microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and complex programmable logic devices CPLDs . Computers microcontrollers and microprocessors are programmed using languages such as assembly C C or the like. FPGAs ASICs and CPLDs are often programmed using hardware description languages HDL such as VHSIC hardware description language VHDL or Verilog that configure connections between internal hardware modules with lesser functionality on a programmable device. Finally it needs to be emphasized that the above mentioned technologies may be used in combination to achieve the result of a functional module.

Some embodiments may employ processing hardware. Processing hardware may include one or more processors computer equipment embedded system machines and or the like. The processing hardware may be configured to execute instructions. The instructions may be stored on a machine readable medium. According to some embodiments the machine readable medium e.g. automated data medium may be a medium configured to store data in a machine readable format that may be accessed by an automated sensing device. Examples of machine readable media include magnetic disks cards tapes and drums punched cards and paper tapes optical disks barcodes magnetic ink characters and or the like.

In addition it should be understood that any figures that highlight any functionality and or advantages are presented for example purposes only. The disclosed architecture is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized in ways other than that shown. For example the steps listed in any flowchart may be re ordered or only optionally used in some embodiments.

Further the purpose of the Abstract of the Disclosure is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract of the Disclosure is not intended to be limiting as to the scope in any way.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

One or more aspects of at least one embodiment may be implemented by representative instructions stored on a machine readable medium which represents various logic within the processor which when read by a machine causes the machine to fabricate logic to perform the techniques described herein. Such representations known as IP cores may be stored on a tangible machine readable medium and supplied to various customers or manufacturing facilities to load into the fabrication machines that actually make the logic or processor.

Embodiments of the present invention are applicable for use with all types of semiconductor integrated circuit IC chips. Examples of these IC chips include but are not limited to processors controllers chipset components programmable logic arrays PLAs memory chips network chips and the like. In addition in some of the drawings signal conductor lines are represented with lines. Some may be different to indicate more constituent signal paths have a number label to indicate a number of constituent signal paths and or have arrows at one or more ends to indicate primary information flow direction. This however should not be construed in a limiting manner. Rather such added detail may be used in connection with one or more exemplary embodiments to facilitate easier understanding of a circuit. Any represented signal lines whether or not having additional information may actually comprise one or more signals that may travel in multiple directions and may be implemented with any suitable type of signal scheme e.g. digital or analog lines implemented with differential pairs optical fiber lines and or single ended lines.

Example sizes models values ranges may have been given although embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the same. As manufacturing techniques e.g. photolithography mature over time it is expected that devices of smaller size could be manufactured. In addition well known power ground connections to IC chips and other components may or may not be shown within the figures for simplicity of illustration and discussion and so as not to obscure certain aspects of the embodiments of the invention. Further arrangements may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the invention and also in view of the fact that specifics with respect to implementation of such block diagram arrangements are highly dependent upon the platform within which the embodiment is to be implemented i.e. such specifics should be well within purview of one skilled in the art. Where specific details e.g. circuits are set forth in order to describe example embodiments of the invention it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention can be practiced without or with variation of these specific details. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine or tangible computer readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The term coupled may be used herein to refer to any type of relationship direct or indirect between the components in question and may apply to electrical mechanical fluid optical electromagnetic electromechanical or other connections. In addition the terms first second etc. may be used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

