---

title: System and method of tracking rate of change of social network activity associated with a digital object
abstract: A system of tracking rate of change of social network activity associated with a digital object includes a change measurement module in communication with at least one social network database and a ranking module in communication with the change measurement module. The change measurement module measures a change in the level of social network activity associated with the digital object based on a first object value and a second object value. The first object value is based on a measurement of activity associated with the digital object in at least one social network at a first time, and the second object value is based on a measurement of activity at a second time. The ranking module ranks the digital object relative to at least one other digital object based on a score derived from a rate of change in social network activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342802&OS=09342802&RS=09342802
owner: NEWSWHIP MEDIA LIMITED
number: 09342802
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20120301
---
This invention relates generally to online social networks. More particularly it relates to using information from social networks to create information that may be used to rank or measure interactions with digital content.

In the discussion of the background that follows reference is made to certain structures and or methods. However the following references should not be construed as an admission that these structures and or methods constitute prior art. The inventor expressly reserves the right to demonstrate that such structures and or methods do not qualify as prior art.

Online social networks permit individuals to share and distribute information including photographs news opinions and links to websites external to the social network. These social networks which include Facebook.com Facebook MySpace.com MySpace Twitter.com Twitter and LinkedIn.com LinkedIn provide a platform on which many individuals publish or distribute information to one another.

Social networks facilitate among their members communication associated with events or objects external to the social networks. Many public figures use Twitter a micro blogging platform and social network to communicate information directly to followers interested individuals the press and fans. Many private individuals use Facebook or LinkedIn to communicate with their friends and associates. As part of these communications individuals sometimes share a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with a particular piece of digital content such as a news story media content or web page.

However no apparatus system or method can provide information regarding a rate of change in activity or a speed of spread on a social network or multiple social networks regarding a particular piece of digital content in the manner of the present invention. Additionally no apparatus system or method can rank a piece of digital content against another piece of digital content based on the rate of change of activity or the speed of spread through online social networks. Accordingly there is a need in the art for an apparatus system or method that can provide information regarding the rate of change of activity on a social network or social networks regarding a piece of digital content and in particular an apparatus a system or a method that can rank this digital content based on the rate of change of such activity.

An exemplary embodiment provides a system of tracking a rate of change in a level of social network activity associated with a digital object. The system can include a change measurement module in communication with at least one social network database and a ranking module in communication with the change measurement module. The change measurement module can measure a change in the level of social network activity associated with the digital object. The change in the level of social network activity can be based on a first object value determined at a first time and a second object value determined at a second time. The first object value can be based on a measurement of activity associated with the digital object in at least one social network at the first time and the second object value can be based on a measurement of activity associated with the digital object in at least one social network at the second time. The change measurement module can determine a rate of change of social network activity based on a difference between the first time and the second time. The ranking module can rank the digital object relative to at least one other digital object based on a score derived from the rate of change in social network activity.

The system may repeat this process multiple times and may rank a defined set of thousands or millions of digital objects using the rate of change in social network activity relating to each object. The rate of change may represent the velocity at which each digital object is spreading through social networks.

Another exemplary embodiment provides a method of tracking rate of change of social network activity associated with a digital object. The method can include identifying by a processor of a computer system one or more digital object sources monitoring by the processor the one or more digital object sources identifying by the processor a digital object provided by at least one of the digital object sources categorizing by the processor the digital object sending by the processor a first query to one or more social networks to determine a first level of activity related to the digital object recording by the processor results of the first query allowing by the processor a period of time to pass sending by the processor a second query to one or more social networks to determine a second level of activity related to the digital object determining by the processor a change in activity related to the digital object determining by the processor a rate of change in activity related to the digital object and assigning by the processor a score based on the rate of change in activity.

Another exemplary embodiment provides a computer system including a processor connected to a computer readable memory. The memory can contain instructions that when enabled by the processor implement a method of tracking rate of change of social network activity associated with a digital object. The method can include identifying one or more digital object sources monitoring the one or more digital object sources identifying a digital object provided by at least one of the digital object sources categorizing the digital object sending a first query to one or more social networks to determine a first level of activity related to the digital object recording results of the first query allowing a period of time to pass sending a second query to one or more social networks to determine a second level of activity related to the digital object determining a change in activity related to the digital object determining a rate of change in activity related to the digital object and assigning a score based on the rate of change in activity.

Other objects advantages and salient features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses an embodiment. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

The figures depict embodiments of the invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Embodiments relate to measuring social network activities and determining a rate of change of social network activities associated with a digital object or a speed of spread associated with a digital object in order to rank the digital object against other digital objects designated as related by the invention or some external source. The digital object can include for example online news stories product web pages or political web pages. The digital object may be external to the social network.

Digital objects that are external to social networks may be assessed and ranked each according to their type by a system and a method that can measure and determine the rate of change of activity or the speed of spread associated with the digital objects in online social networks. Additionally a level of social network activity associated with a digital object may be tracked over time producing data that represents changes in the level of activity associated with the object or the speed of spread associated with the object.

By using an embodiment to track the rate of change of social network activity over time data may be derived or created regarding the digital object. In one embodiment digital objects of a particular type such as online news stories associated with an individual URL and relating to a particular topic or topics may be tracked and values derived for the rates of change of activity associated with the objects in multiple social networks. In another embodiment the digital object may be tracked and values derived for the speed of spread associated with the object.

In one embodiment the appearance or publication of digital objects from particular sources can be monitored. The digital objects can be in the form of newly created URLs. The appearance or publication of digital objects can be monitored by a web crawler RSS feed or other forms of detecting digital objects. The object sources may be pre identified. As digital objects are generated by the object sources or identified by monitoring object sources the objects can be categorized according to for example their type their subject or geographic source. The categorization may be based on data within the digital object or pre defined information about the source such as its location title topic area or relative position within a website. For example when a new URL is discovered key information about the associated digital object may be extracted including metadata any description of the object its publication time or other data. This information may be inserted into a database for storage. Then automated queries can be communicated to social networks including but not limited to Facebook LinkedIn and Twitter to determine the level of activity relating to the URL associated with the digital object. The level of social activity on one or more social networks for each URL may also be stored on a database. Based on the results of these queries a score or scores can be assigned to the object. After a time period has elapsed similar queries can be sent to the social networks to determine an updated level of activity relating to the objects. Code can be executed whereby the results of these queries can be compared with the results of previous queries or the score or scores generated previously can be compared to an updated value or values relating to the digital object. This data can be combined with the length of the time periods between the sets of queries to derive a rate of change relating to each object. Using this information a score or scores may be generated representing the rate of change of social network activity associated with the digital object. When such values are generated for multiple objects of the same type these objects or representations associated with these objects may be ranked in accordance with these values or other values derived therefrom. Code for parsing and displaying the digital objects or the representations of these digital objects in a visually distinguishable and useful manner on a webpage can be generated. The objects or representations can be displayed in a manner related to their ranking. The objects or representations can also be displayed in a manner related to their ranking for particular sources categories or other designations. For example the highest ranked objects for particular sources categories or other designations may be displayed. The entire process may be completed by use of code executed by a computer server or cloud based array.

In another construction of the embodiment the location or preferences of an end user of the system or method may influence its function by indicating a preference for particular digital objects. The preferences can be based on for example subject matter types geographic sources or associations with other digital objects or other social network users. The system or method may use data on social network activity relating to a digital object from multiple social networks to weight or blend the data as desired. The method may also involve using a statistical device or an algorithm to add emphasis to particular objects based on their geographic relationship or other relationship with the end user. Similarly this entire process may be completed by use of code executed by a computer server or cloud based array.

In an alternative construction of the embodiment the system or method may be used to track the rate of change of social network activity associated with a digital object and to establish correlations between this rate of change and external events.

Referring to the figures a system can measure changes in a level of social network activity associated with a digital object. The system can then use the measured changes to calculate a rate of change of social network activity associated with the digital object. The calculated rate of change of social network activity associated with the digital object can then be used for purposes such as ranking one or more digital objects based on the rate of change of activity associated with one or more digital objects over a period of time.

Turning to the system can include a discovery module one or more digital object sources and a categorization module a categorization data collector module an object parsing module a change measurement module and a ranking module . The system can further include a visual representation module and an output module .

The discovery module can find at least one digital object within one or more digital object sources and . The one or more digital object sources and which generally can be some form of content producing digital platform such as a website can be first identified and can then be monitored by the system . The digital object sources and may be identified by an end user of the system an administrator of the system or an automated process within the system such as a web crawler or a computer program that can browse the world wide web or pre identified portions of the world wide web to detect and or index content. For example in one construction of the system an administrator or end user of the system can manually identify sources within one or more websites can manually categorize the sources and can use the categorized sources for the system . The source can be for example an RSS feed or a particular subsection of a website where a given category of content is published. These sources may be used to identify and categorize digital objects.

After at least one digital object source or is found the discovery module can monitor at least one digital object source or for new digital objects. The monitoring process may involve using a web crawler or other computer program to identify new digital objects within or from the digital object source or or may rely on published announcements or syndication from the digital object source or . A software product or service external to the system described herein may be used for the identification of new digital objects. For example in one construction of the system the system can monitor RSS feeds and crawl websites programmed into or pre selected by an operator of the system . The digital object may comprise a news story video audio file blog event topic photograph product website product webpage political website political webpage music other media or any digitally stored object embodied in some form on the internet a local network or some other form of sharing digital data. A digital object can be identified by for example a URL a hyperlink or any other unique digital identifier for the digital object on the world wide web. The discovery module may be based on a computer a server or spread across an array of linked computers or servers.

When the discovery module finds one or more digital object sources and the categorization module can categorize the digital objects of the digital object sources and . The categorization data collector module can input data related to categorizing to the categorization module . The categorization module may use data inputted by an administrator or end user of the system in order to correctly categorize the digital object. The data may include editorial decisions made by the administrator. For example the administrator may identify a digital object source or as being located in the United Kingdom UK and producing or linking to content relating to technology and business. The categorization module can automatically categorize any input from this source or as UK technology and business. A single website or digital platform producing digital objects may contain multiple sources. Alternatively an object may be categorized using several other methodologies including but not limited to its characteristics such as metadata containing information that indicates that the object is of a certain type forms of digital content associated with the digital object such as video audio image or other file types keywords associated with or contained in the digital object categorization by a third party source such as an external index that indicates that a digital object is of a certain type or that objects associated with a particular digital object source are of a certain type categorization by system users categorization by administrators or categorization by social network users.

The data used for the categorization process can include for example information previously determined and inputted regarding at least one of the digital object sources and information derived from the one or more digital object sources and information stored in the system and information requested from an external source. Thus digital objects from one or more digital object sources and can be collected and categorized.

The object parsing module can gather data from a digital object and parse the data. The data from the digital object may include for example a picture text a video file an audio file metadata or some other information. The data from the digital object is parsed so that a parsed summary representing the digital object can be provided. The parsed summary can be a parsed summary file representing the digital object. For example when the digital object is a news story containing text and an image the parsed summary file or files may contain a headline from the news story some keywords associated with the story summary text relating to the story a thumbnail picture or other rendering of the image associated with the story the publication or website or other digital platform where the story may be found feedback or reactions relating to the story from third parties system users or social network users and ranking or scoring information associated with the popularity or level of activity associated with the story online.

The change measurement module can determine a rate of change in social network activity related to a particular digital object. Social network activity may include any actions within any social network that may be associated with the digital object. For example social network activities can include publishing a URL of a digital object on the social network such as sharing a story via Facebook or publishing the digital object into a post on Twitter recommending a digital object using tools available through the social network such as liking or recommending via Facebook using the social network to comment on or discuss the digital object provided or published by another social network user such as making a comment or otherwise interacting with a link shared by another user on Facebook posting or sharing a link to the digital object within the social network for example publishing a link on Twitter or sharing a link on Facebook commenting on a link to a digital object shared within the social network such as a photo or other content published within the social network using a social network account to comment on or otherwise interact with or engage with the digital object such as using a Facebook or Twitter account to post a comment on a news article or blog post using the social network account to recommend approve of or otherwise promote a digital object using the social network to publish an opinion reaction or comment relating to the digital object using a social network to distribute or communicate the digital object interacting socially with a digital object either external or internal to the social network within the network and any other measurable social network activity that may be associated with the digital object. The change measurement module may measure any or all of these actions relating to a social network or to a particular social network account. The social network can be for example Facebook MySpace Twitter LinkedIn or any other platform on which many individuals publish or distribute information to one another.

Referring to one construction of the change measurement module is shown. In the construction shown the change measurement module can include code that can be executed by a processor and that can be used to determine the change in social network activity. The change measurement module can be communicatively coupled to one or more social network databases and . The system may communicate with the social network databases and via a web service application programming interface provided by the social network. For example the system may communicate with the social graph data provided by Facebook. The system can use information from the social network databases and to determine an object value . The system may allocate differing weights to data points of different types from different social networks. For example in one construction of the system the object value can be based on an OverAllScore that is determined as shown below 

As shown above some social networks can be weighted more than others and some interactions can be weighted more than other. For example the posting of a link on Facebook may be weighted ten times more than another type of social network interaction the mentioning of a link in a Tweet may be weighted five times more than another form of social network interaction a Facebook like or recommendation may be weighted four times more than another form of interaction the sharing of a link on LinkedIn may be weighted fifteen times more than another form of interaction a Facebook comment may be weighted two times more than another form of interaction etc.

The system can repeatedly measure the values over time thus determining multiple object values and . The time period between each measurement may vary. These time periods may be set by a system administrator or may result from the length of time associated with the system s processes. In some instances the time period can be as short as may be achieved using the amount of computing power contained within the system . A time period may be very short seconds or longer hours . The time period may extend to days or lengthier periods for some digital object types or sources. The time period assigned to some objects can differ depending on the level of activity associated with the objects. Objects associated with higher levels of social network activity may be checked more frequently possibly resulting in shorter periods of measurement.

However the time period can also be measured and tracked by the system . For each digital object the system can then determine the change in social network activity since the previous time the system obtained values and for social network activity and the length of time that has elapsed between each measurement. This information may be stored in a digital database or databases linking each digital object with its associated categories associated parsed information such as text images and other information measurements of social network activity relating to the objects the timing of these measurements the differences in time between these measurements values derived from these measurements and comparisons of changes in the values derived from these measurements.

In the system can check the change in social network activity over time for a given digital object. The change in activity may be calculated by determining the level of activity at sequential points in time such as t t t and t. A recording of object value can occur between a difference in time or a time period T. The difference in time or the time period T may be calculated based on 1 2 1 232 34 3

The levels of activity at each time t t t and t can be recorded as object values and . For example at time t an object value can be recorded at time t an object value can be recorded at time t an object value can be recorded and at time t an object value can be recorded. A difference D between each object value such as and can represent the total change in social network activity. The difference D may be calculated based on 1 object value 220at time 2 object value 220at time 1 2 object value 220at time 3 object value 200at time 2 3 object value 220at time 4 object value 220at time 3

Using these values an object value such as and representing the rate of change of activity associated with the digital object may be derived based on.

The object value such as and can change each time the system gathers new object values including new social network activity measurements for an object. Hence the speed of spread or additional social network activity of the object may be periodically derived and recorded within the system . The object value data based on object values may be either weighted using variables normalized in relation to other data or otherwise subjected to changes before the difference D between each measurement is calculated. Similarly the difference D between each measurement may be either weighted using variables normalized in relation to other data or otherwise subjected to changes before the rate of change of activity based on object values is derived.

Returning to the system can include the ranking module . The digital objects can be ranked using the object values such as and over time generated by measuring the change in social network activity and other data. Referring to a flow chart shows a process of using object values or rate of change in social network activity to rank objects in accordance with an embodiment. The ranking may be generated at intervals T or at other intervals that depend on the amount of resources available to the discovery module the change measurement module or other modules within the system . In one construction of the ranking module the ranking may be dynamically refreshed within a category as new values are gathered for each digital object in the category and for new digital objects within the category. The value for each object can be combined with other variables to provide a score for the object. The other variables may include a total time passed since the discovery of the object by the system a time at which measurement of the social activities took place a time at which the object was created and other variables. The variables may be adjusted to give greater prominence or higher scores to more recently created or discovered objects. The score for an object may also be adjusted for the object within each category type assigned to it by the categorization module . For example within category type A the object may be given a score within category type B the object may be given a score and within category type C the object may be given a score . The scores and can be stored with the rank of each category type A B and C.

Additional information may then be added to these category scores and to provide additional weight to the score associated with certain digital objects in relation to the score associated with other digital objects depending on the objects type geographic source time of publication or other data. Among others a process of statistical normalization may be used to achieve a weighting between scores. This allows the system to allocate additional weight to digital objects from sources or that are geographically closer or are otherwise of interest to the end user of the system . Thus for example for end users of the system in the UK accessing online news stories social network activity associated with those news stories that are produced in the UK or relate to the UK may be given a higher weighting. For example in one construction of the system for an end user in Ireland a story from the UK can be given a lower weighting than a story from Ireland. The process of statistical normalization of scores from sets of data with differing distributions is familiar to any programmer of ordinary skill in the art.

Alternatively the score can be determined for each object using data from multiple measurements of social network activity values. In one embodiment such multiple values may be used to degrade the score for a digital object over time. Score 220 220 220 . . . 220 1 2 3 . . .

A normalized object category score and can be applied to each digital object for each category A B and C respectively. Using the normalized object category score and the objects may be ranked according to their relative weighted scores to determine a relative ranking and . The relative ranking and can then be used to provide a relative ranking and . The relative ranking and may then be used to generate a table display or other information to convey the rank of one or more digital objects. The same object may earn different relative scores in each subject category represented by the numerals and resulting in variable rankings and

Referring to an exemplary output is shown. The output can include a plurality of parsed representations of digital objects and . Each of the plurality of these representations and can include a headline and a parsed excerpt and from the digital object or a source description and for each of representations and and a score and for each of the digital objects and derived from the speed of social activity associated with the object including a score derived in any of the manners described above. Digital objects can also have a source description and a score although the source description and the score is not shown in .

A ranking module can produce data and that rank or that can otherwise be used to arrange digital objects. The data and can determine relationships between digital objects. The digital objects and the relationships between the digital objects may be sent to the visual representation module . The visual representation module can arrange the data into for example a visual arrangement that displays both the parsed objects and their ranking.

Referring to an exemplary output is shown. The output can include a url score id that can indicate the identification of the score in the system a scoretype that can indicate a portion that contributes to the score a score num that can indicate the value of the score a url id that can indicate an identification of a digital object in the system and a score date that can indicate the time that the score was calculated.

Referring to an exemplary output is shown. The exemplary output can include a url id that can indicate the identification of the digital object in the system a url loc that can indicate the location of the digital object in the world wide web a country that can indicate the location of the digital object a source ID that can indicate the source of the object a img loc that can indicate the location of any images associated with the digital object a headline that can indicate the headline or other leading description associated with a digital object a news summary than can provide a summary of the digital object a sources that can indicate the digital object source a sources link that can indicate the location of the digital object source on the world wide web a url date find that can indicate the time that the digital object was found by the system a score that can indicate the score and a scoreTimestamp that can indicate the time that the score was calculated by the system .

In turn individual end users of the system may access this information through the output module . The output module can be but not limited to a web browser or mobile application. These end users may be served with parsed data associated with each digital object. This data may be arranged in a manner that indicates the rank of each digital object using the rate of change of social network activity associated with the digital object values divided by the time periods between each measurement of social network activity .

Referring to an exemplary output is shown. The output can include one or more digital objects and and a menu arranged adjacent to the one or more digital objects and . Each digital object and can include a score or a count or a time period or metadata or and a source or . The output may be generated by the visual representation module shown in and appear in the output module shown in . The output may be presented using Hypertext Markup Language HTML accessed by a user via a web browser or mobile application. The output shown in presents data from two digital objects and a news story with the headline Mitt Romney Tax Returns Released . . . published on the website huffingtonpost.com and a news story with the headline Gingrich says he will skip debates . . . published on the website thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com. For each of these two objects and a numeric score and can be provided. The numeric score and can be derived from the in social activity. A score representing the rates of change or A in social activity can be derived from the numbers of social actions for example as shown in on Facebook and Twitter represented with f and t counts respectively over recent time period for digital object and time period for digital object . In the time period for digital object is 3 hours and the time period for digital object is 2 hours. Metadata associated with the digital objects such as an image may be presented with the digital object . The source for the digital objects may be presented. As shown in the source can be a website. The user may also apply one or more filters to the digital objects presented. For example the user may apply a filter by selecting to view only news from a particular category. The application of one or more filters may be accomplished by selecting options via the menu which in turn is populated using data generated by the categorization module shown in using data collected by the categorization data collection module shown in .

Embodiments may also be applied to measuring changes over time in the rate of social network activity associated with a digital object or multiple digital objects. Referring to a diagram representing a digital object social activity tracking system in accordance with an embodiment is shown. The system may monitor changes over time in the rate of social media activity associated with a single digital object.

The system can include a discovery module a categorization module and a parsing module . The system can also include a change measurement module . The system can repeatedly measure activity relating to the object from multiple social networks and and the time between measurements. The measured activity and the time between measurements may be used to determine multiple values associated with the digital object over time. The measured activity the time between measurements and multiple values resulting from changes in the activity may be used to generate a visual or other representation in the change in activity with the visual representation module or may be used to link changes in activity to external events. For example the system may be used to show changes in social media activity associated with a particular web page and how or if the changes in social media activity such as chatter is influenced by an advertisement endorsement news event or other external event. This may be achieved manually or automatically by monitoring changes in values to check for correlations with external events. Such a monitoring may be achieved manually by an end user or an administrator of the system checking values before during and after an event that might be expected to influence these values. For example a mention by a celebrity or public figure of a particular website or product might cause a larger amount of activity for a given period of time for digital objects such as world wide web pages on that website or associated with that product. An end user may use the system to check values before during and after the mention and may check the rate of change of activity with the object over time. Alternatively such links may be monitored by linking the system disclosed herein with an external system that monitors events such as advertisement appearances on television or radio keyword monitoring of news events keyword monitoring of social network activities such as publications on Twitter or monitoring for other external events such as changes in weather politics sporting or news events that might precipitate increased social network activity associated with particular digital objects. For example the publication of particular advertisements or broadcasting of publicity at particular times might increase social media activity around digital objects mentioned in the advertisement. If so the system disclosed herein may be used alongside a system that monitors the publication of advertisements to demonstrate which advertisements are associated with the greatest positive values or speed of activity. Thus advertisers seeking to generate social network activity may determine that some advertisements or some publication times are more effective than others for engendering changes in social network activity.

Referring to a method of ranking digital objects is shown. In step one or more digital object sources can be identified. The digital object sources can be monitored step . When a digital object is provided by at least one of the digital object sources the digital object can be identified step . When the digital object is identified the digital object can be categorized step . A query to one or more social networks can be sent to determine a level of activity related to the digital object step . The results of the query can be reviewed and recorded as Result step . A period of time T may be allowed to elapse step . After a period of time has elapsed another query can be sent to one or more social networks to determine a level of activity related to the digital object step . Results of the query sent after a period of time has elapsed can be reviewed and recorded as Result step . The difference D between Result and Result may be obtained step . The difference D may next be divided by the period of time T that passed between the recording of Result and Result to obtain a rate of change of activity A related to the digital object step . The resulting rate of change of activity A may be reviewed and recorded by the system step . The score associated with the digital object may be directly derived from this rate of change of activity. Steps to may be repeated to offer a continuously updating score relating to the rate of change of social activity associated with the digital object.

Referring to another construction is shown. The system can identify relationships in values associated with multiple digital objects. A discovery module can identify objects from digital object sources and these can be categorized using the categorization module using data inputted from the categorization data collector . The system can include a plurality of change measurement modules that can each measure changes in each digital object. Each of the plurality of change measurement modules can be similar to the change measurement module shown in . Each of the plurality of change measurement modules can obtain A values for each object referred to as Object a and Object b in . A correlation detection module can identify relationships in values and changes in values over time among multiple digital objects. An administrator or user of the system may set parameters or sensitivities to identify differing closeness of correlations among categories of digital objects. The system can further include a visual representation module and an output module which may be similar to the visual representation module and the output module shown in . The output module can be an internet browser or a mobile device.

No other system available to businesses or consumers that either gathers digital objects from multiple sources be these news stories or other online creative endeavors appears to measure change in social network activity in the manner of the embodiments and constructions described herein. Also no other system appears to indicate the rate of change of social network activity associated with all of these objects in the manner of the embodiments and constructions described herein. Embodiments may be used to rank the level of activity associated with news stories culture products or other non digital objects with associated digital embodiments.

With the components and constructions described above a system and a method can measure changes in the level of social network activity associated with a digital object and can use this information to calculate the rate of change of such activity for purposes including ranking digital objects based on their relative popularity over time. The embodiments and constructions herein may be applied to the ranking of objects using changes in the level of social network activity associated with the objects. Embodiments and constructions can normalize the ranking of particular object types or sources for specific users. Embodiments and constructions herein may also be applied to track changes in the level of social network activity associated with a digital object over time.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference has been made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language has been used to describe these embodiments. However no limitation of the scope of the invention is intended by this specific language and the invention should be construed to encompass all embodiments that would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the art. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing the particular embodiments and is not intended to be limiting of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

The invention may be described in terms of functional block components and various processing steps. Such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the invention may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Furthermore the connecting lines or connectors shown in the various figures presented are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical or logical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships physical connections or logical connections may be present in a practical device. Finally the steps of all methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

The apparatus described herein may comprise a processor a memory for storing program data to be executed by the processor a permanent storage such as a disk drive a communications port for handling communications with external devices and user interface devices including a display keys etc. When software modules are involved these software modules may be stored as program instructions or computer readable code executable by the processor on a non transitory computer readable media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM CD ROMs DVDs magnetic tapes hard disks floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The computer readable recording media may also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. This media can be read by the computer stored in the memory and executed by the processor. Furthermore the invention may employ any number of conventional techniques for electronics configuration signal processing and or control data processing and the like. For the sake of brevity conventional electronics control systems software development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail.

Functional aspects may be implemented in algorithms that execute on one or more processors. Similarly where the elements of the invention are implemented using software programming or software elements the invention may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C Java assembler or the like with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Also using the disclosure herein programmers of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains can easily implement functional programs codes and code segments for making and using the invention.

The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No item or component is essential to the practice of the invention unless the element is specifically described as essential or critical . The words mechanism and element are used broadly and are not limited to mechanical or physical embodiments but may include software routines in conjunction with processors etc. It will also be recognized that the terms comprises comprising includes including has and having as used herein are specifically intended to be read as open ended terms of art. The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. In addition it should be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms which are only used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein.

Numerous modifications and adaptations will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in this art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims. Therefore the scope of the invention is defined not by the detailed description of the invention but by the following claims and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the invention.

For example the techniques disclosed herein may also be applied to measuring changes in social network activity independent for uses other than ranking the objects including the provision of market intelligence or the linking of external events with changes in social network activity relating to objects. The techniques may be used to test the effectiveness of particular advertisements or events for generating social network activity regarding products services individuals or cultural objects mentioned in the advertisements or events.

