---

title: Mobile device child share
abstract: In embodiments of mobile device child share, a mobile device can display a default device lock screen on an integrated display device, and receive an input effective to transition from the default device lock screen to display a child lock screen without receiving a PIN code entered on the default device lock screen. The mobile device can receive a second input effective to transition from the child lock screen to display a child space. The mobile device implements a device share service that activates a child share mode of the mobile device, and restricts functionality of device applications and access to device content based on designated restriction limits.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230076&OS=09230076&RS=09230076
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09230076
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121222
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 695 294 filed Aug. 30 2012 entitled Mobile Device Kid Space the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Many types of devices such as mobile phones tablet devices and other computing communication and entertainment devices increasingly offer more functions applications and features which are beneficial to a user and can enhance one s personal time as well as work and social activities. For example not only can a mobile phone be used for text email and voice communications but may also be used for entertainment such as to listen to music surf the Internet watch video content gaming and for photo and video imaging. Similarly a portable tablet device may be utilized for email browser navigation and other computing applications as well as for the various entertainment and photo features. In addition to the many computing communication and entertainment applications that are available to a user of a mobile phone or tablet device a seemingly unlimited number of third party applications and features are also available for download to a device.

Parents of younger children that do not yet have their own mobile phones often find that a child wants to play with their phone to play games take pictures listen to music and other activities. Typically a parent may pass his or her phone to a young child in the back seat of the car while driving to keep the child entertained. The parent may not know then what features and applications the child access on the device such as a Web browser or unintentionally accessing an email application or which device settings may have been changed such as audio settings alarm settings calendar notices and the like.

This Summary introduces features and simplified concepts of mobile device child share which is further described below in the Detailed Description and or shown in the Figures. This Summary should not be considered to describe essential features of the claimed subject matter nor used to determine or limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Mobile device child share is described. In embodiments a mobile device can display a default device lock screen on an integrated display device and receive an input effective to transition from the default device lock screen to display a child lock screen without receiving a PIN code entered on the default device lock screen. The mobile device can receive a second input effective to transition from the child lock screen to display a child space such as a child start screen. The mobile device implements a device share service that activates a child share mode of the mobile device and restricts functionality of device applications and access to device content based on designated restriction limits.

In embodiments the child share mode may be activated based on a child share profile that includes device application functionality restriction settings and device content access restriction settings. The device share service is implemented to allow restricted device application functionality in the child space and allow restricted device content access in the child space during the child share mode. The device share service can also deactivate the child share mode responsive to an input to the mobile device and activate a user mode of the mobile device. The device share service can then restore device settings previously designated in the user mode that changed during the child share mode such as to restore audio settings of the mobile device to volume levels that were designated prior to activation of the child share mode.

Embodiments of mobile device child share are described and provide a device share service that can be implemented as a client device service or application such as in a mobile phone portable tablet device or other type of computing and or communication device. Mobile device child share enables implementation of a Kid s Corner also referred to as a kid space or child zone for parental control of any applications data functions and features of a mobile device so that a parent can allow a child to play with the device without having access to the restricted applications data functions and features. Kid s Corner is a child share space that provides a custom destination on a mobile phone just for a child and where the child goes to play on the device.

In a child share space child access is restricted to only the applications games music videos movies and other content that a parent chooses. All of the settings and content outside of the Kid s Corner is protected and purchases can be blocked while in the Kid s Corner. The blocked and or restricted applications and features of a mobile device may include the ability to make a phone call send a text or access email and access the Internet such as to post to social networks or to search the Internet. When the parent retrieves his or her mobile device from a child the parent can simply press the device power button or provide another input to another designated selectable control to deactivate the child share mode and reinitiate the default lock screen on the device from which the parent user can then access the mobile device with a lock screen password.

While features and concepts of mobile device child share can be implemented in any number of different devices systems environments and or configurations embodiments of mobile device child share are described in the context of the following example devices systems and methods.

The example mobile device includes an integrated display device on which user interfaces can be displayed such as a default device lock screen that indicates the device is locked at . For example a user of the mobile device may be a parent of children and the parent may set up the device to lock when not in use so that the kids do not inadvertently access applications such as email and text and or have access to the Internet via a browser application.

The parent user of the mobile device can allow a child to play with the phone and hand the phone over without having to unlock the device from the default device lock screen e.g. in some examples without having to provide a personal identity number PIN or other authentication credential. As shown in the example a child that has the phone can swipe the default device lock screen with a gesture input e.g. a horizontal swipe gesture to access a child lock screen which is illustrated at as the Kid s Corner welcome screen . From the Kid s Corner welcome screen e.g. a child lock screen the child can then swipe the screen with another gesture input e.g. a vertical swipe gesture such as in a different direction to access a child space as shown in the example .

In implementations the inputs used to make these transitions may be any type of user and or gesture or keystroke input in any direction on the integrated display device of the mobile device. Alternatively or in addition any type of device button and or gesture inputs may be utilized effective to transition from the default device lock screen to the child lock screen and subsequently to the child space . In an implementation the display may pause when transitioned from the default device lock screen to the child lock screen and then automatically transition to the child space without further input. Alternatively a transition from the default device lock screen to the child space may be accomplished by omitting the child lock screen altogether.

From the child space the child can access the kid s camera e.g. allowed camera functionality of an integrated digital camera and the pictures taken by a child in Kid s Corner which may be maintained in a designated local picture space on the device rather than being uploaded to cloud based storage. The child can also access allowed games music images videos applications communication functions as well as any other functions and features of the mobile device that have not been restricted by the parent or alternatively have been proactively allowed . A parent may also pin photos in the child space that the child cannot delete. The description layout orientation features and organization of the text images photos graphics links data information and presentation features shown with reference to the example child share user interfaces e.g. the Kid s Corner screen and the child space as well as with reference to any other user interfaces described herein and or shown in the figures are merely examples that may be altered in any aspect for various embodiments and or implementations of mobile device child share.

The mobile device includes a device share service that can be implemented as a software application e.g. executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage. Additionally the device share service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement embodiments of mobile device child share as described herein. The device share service may be implemented as an independent device application that is executable on the device to interface with the many applications features and functions of the device. The device share service may also be integrated with an operating system of the mobile device. The operating system can also include a hub operating system service that is implemented to integrate cloud based services and local device applications e.g. the device share service with the operating system.

The example system also includes a cloud storage and service that can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data services used to store or maintain child share profiles which include device application functionality restriction settings and device content access restriction settings the child space . When established a child share profile is generally an account within a user account of the adult user owner of the device. The child share profile can be established to share device applications and device content associated with the user account of the user owner of the device with a child. There may be multiple child share profiles for a single device each of which includes different settings for multiple different kids and each kid having a different child share profile.

The child space may include multiple implementations of Kid s Corners and optionally the multiple child share profiles each correspond to a different implementation of a Kid s Corner in the child space on the device. Additionally the child share profiles can be pushed or pulled from the mobile device to the cloud storage and service where the child share profiles are maintained. The child share profiles can then be used with other devices such as to synchronize between two devices of an adult user owner e.g. a mobile phone and a tablet device or between two different parents devices e.g. a mother s mobile phone and a father s tablet device so that a child has continuity of user experience when using either of the two different devices.

Any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider. Alternatively or in addition peer to peer communication techniques may be utilized.

The device share service is implemented to manage a child share mode that includes designated restriction limits such as parental control settings to limit and or restrict device applications e.g. restricted device applications as well as limit and or restrict access to device content e.g. restricted device content . A user owner of the mobile device typically a parent of a child can choose the device applications and features and or device content that can be accessed by a child or guest in the child space while the child share mode is activated. Further a device application may be allowed a restricted level of functionality while running in the child space yet generally cannot access restricted device content such as contacts email and calendar databases as well as limited access to the device file system. A set of content databases device file system Internet access Application Programming Interfaces APIs and other allowed device content and features can be protected from device application access when a restricted execution mode is activated on the device. For example a device application that can access the Internet email contacts etc. may be automatically restricted when the parent allows a child to access the device application in the child space. The restricted execution mode limits navigation to a subset of application tasks for example access to only kids games but no access to email applications or limits the experience of the applications themselves. For example a digital camera application can allow a user to take and view new photos but previous photos will be restricted from viewing.

The user interface start screen of the child space is customizable for or by the child and or by the user owner of the device. For example a parent can add applications such as for games and music to the child space so that the applications are recognized and can be launched in the child space. However applications that are not recognized in the child space cannot be launched in the child space. For example if a game application that is pinned to the child space attempts to launch a browser application the device share service will check if the browser application is pinned and recognized in the child space. If the application is not then the device share service will fail to launch the application or if the application is recognized then the application can be launched in the child space.

As described with reference to an input can be received such as a gesture input or selectable control input and the device share service initiates a transition from displaying the default device lock screen to display the child lock screen typically without receiving a PIN code entered on the device lock screen. A second input can then be received such as another gesture input to transition from displaying the child lock screen to display the child space and the device share service activates the child share mode . In implementations the child share mode may be activated based on a child share profile that includes device application functionality restriction settings and device content access restriction settings.

The device share service is also implemented to manage device settings to of the mobile device when the child share mode is activated. The device settings can include device button settings and audio settings as well as any other type of configuration and settings of the mobile device. For example the device share service can deactivate a capacitive device button in the child share mode so as to avoid a child inadvertently initiating a different device mode or starting a device application. During activation of the child share mode button and or user input actuations can be selectively turned off or changed so that a child can not adjust the volume e.g. a hardware button or change software controls. This can also makes it easier for a child to use the device when the child share mode is activated on the device.

Setup and activation of mobile device child share on the mobile device can include locking and or disabling the hardware controls via software as a broad restriction feature of mobile device child share. A hardware lock feature provides that a user owner of the mobile device can press a combination of hardware buttons to place the device in a state where the capacitive device buttons e.g. capacitive button on the front of the device are disabled. Subsequently pressing the same combination of hardware buttons or a different pre determined combination re enables the device buttons. Alternatively or in addition the user owner can place the mobile device in a state where the capacitive device buttons on the front of the device are disabled by tapping on a software button that is on the screen and pressing the software button again re enables the device hardware buttons.

The device share service is also implemented to allow a child access to a kid s camera e.g. a camera application and allowed camera functionality of the device camera which allows the child to take photos with the digital camera of the mobile device while the child share mode is activated. However the device share service restricts uploading the digital photos to the cloud storage and service while the child share mode is activated and the kid s photos may be stored in a designated photo space on the mobile device. The kid s photos can be saved as just the photos taken by the child when using the mobile device in the child share mode. Further the child may be restricted from viewing or accessing the photos of the user owner of the device.

The device share service at the mobile device can also be implemented to restrict incoming or outgoing phone calls while the child share mode is activated such as by disallowing them altogether with the possible exception of placing an emergency call or by requiring a PIN to answer an incoming phone call or place an outgoing call. Alternatively or in addition the device share service at the mobile device may allow the ring tone indicating an incoming phone call to play audibly at a preset e.g. high volume over an integrated speaker of the mobile device even though a headset is connected to a headset port of the mobile device or the general volume is switched off or is set at a low level while the child share mode is activated. This can help to avert common frustrations of parents who share their phone using existing systems. For example in some existing systems a child may use headphones or turn the sound down on his parent s device and his parent misses a phone call when she gets the phone back if she forgets to remove the headphones for the device or turn the volume back up.

In such existing systems the parent may also miss a phone call while the child is using the device. For example a phone call may just ring through to the child who may not tell the parent of the existence of the incoming call. With the systems described herein even if the device is being used by a child with headphones or the child has reduced the volume of an integrated speaker an incoming phone call will ring audibly through the integrated speakers at a parent set volume and not at the volume that may have been set by a child when using the device in the child space. Similar volume adjustments may be made by a device share service to provide an audible or other indicator of other notifications to a parent when the child share mode is activated such as notifications of new text messages calendar reminders or new email notifications.

The setup and activation of mobile device child share on the mobile device includes the audio settings to control the sounds that matter to the user owner and the child controls the sounds that matter to him or her in the child space. For example a volume rocker key or similar volume control can be restricted to only affect the volume of media content playback such as music videos and games. The volume rocker or similar volume controls may be restricted from affecting other system sounds e.g. incoming call ring volume or other notification sound volumes in the child space and these system sounds may instead be played back at the volume the user owner has set and may be played through the device integrated speaker even if headphones are connected to the device. The user owner can also setup the device share service to manage notifications such as toasts reminders alarms and the like so that they do not show up in the child space while the child share mode is activated. The reminders and notifications can be queued on the lock screen such as if the screen were in an off mode.

The device share service at the mobile device is implemented to receive a predefined input to the mobile device such as a user input to the device power button and the device share service can then deactivate the child share mode . The device share service can then reinitiate the display of the default device lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device as an indication that the normal user mode has been restored. The device share service is also implemented to restore the audio settings of the mobile device to volume levels that were designated prior to activation of the child share mode .

Example methods and are described with reference to respective in accordance with one or more embodiments of mobile device child share. Generally any of the services components modules methods and operations described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof. Example methods may be described in the general context of executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media that is local and or remote to a computer processing system and implementations can include software applications programs functions and the like.

At a default device lock screen is displayed on an integrated display device of a mobile device. For example the mobile device displays a default device lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device. At an input is received and in response the display transitions from displaying the default device lock screen to a child lock screen. For example an input system of the mobile device receives an input such as a gesture input or selectable control input and the input is effective to transition from displaying the default device lock screen to display the child lock screen .

At the child lock screen is displayed without receiving a PIN code or other identifier entered on the default device lock screen. For example the mobile device displays the default device lock screen at and transitions to display the child lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device. The device share service at the mobile device is implemented to initiate the transition from displaying the default device lock screen to the child lock screen without receiving a PIN code entered on the default device lock screen. At an input is received and in response the display transitions from displaying the child lock screen to a child space such as a child start screen. For example an input system of the mobile device receives an input such as a gesture or selectable control input and the input is effective to transition from displaying the child lock screen to display a child space . Again this transition may be made without requiring the receipt of a PIN code or other identifier.

At a child share mode of the mobile device is activated that restricts the functionality of device applications and or access to device content based on designated restriction limits. For example the device share service at the mobile device activates the child share mode and restricts functionality of the restricted device applications and restricts access to the restricted device content based on the designated restriction limits . The child share mode may be activated based on a child share profile that includes device application functionality restriction settings and device content access restriction settings. The aspects and features described herein for restricted execution modes e.g. may be utilized to support and implement the child share mode as a restricted execution mode that is associated with a child shared space of the device to restrict the functionality of the restricted device applications and restrict access to the restricted device content .

Examples of restricting the functionality of a device application may include not permitting the device application to be launched altogether or limiting the device application to calling only a restricted subset of API calls that is narrower than the normal set of API calls available to the application when the mobile device is running in normal user mode. Restricting access to device content also may include disallowing certain API calls that provide access to particular sets of data or content. In many examples restricting functionality or access does not include analyzing or changing Access Control Lists ACLs Access Control Entries ACEs or similar file system access control metadata maintained by a file system.

At capacitive device input buttons of the mobile device are deactivated in the child share mode. For example the device share service at the mobile device deactivates the capacitive device button in the child share mode so as to avoid a child inadvertently initiating a different device mode or starting a device application.

At access to a device camera application is allowed to capture digital photos and at an upload of the digital photos to cloud storage is restricted during the child share mode. For example the device share service at the mobile device allows access to the kid s camera e.g. a device camera application which allows the child to take photos with the digital camera of the mobile device while the child share mode is activated. However the device share service restricts uploading the digital photos to the cloud storage and service while the child share mode is activated.

At an incoming phone call is restricted during the child share mode and alternatively or in addition at an audible notification sound for incoming phone call is provided through an integrated speaker of the mobile device while a headset is connected to a headset port of the mobile device during the child share mode. For example the device share service at the mobile device restricts the acceptance of incoming phone calls while the child share mode is activated such as by requiring a PIN to initiate an incoming call or by automatically declining any incoming calls. Alternatively or in addition the device share service allows the audible notification sound for an incoming phone call to be provided through an integrated speaker of the mobile device while a headset is connected to a headset port of the mobile device while the child share mode is activated. The operations of and may also be preformed to restrict or provide audible notifications for other types of incoming communications such as incoming text messages emails and calendar alerts.

At an input is received to a selectable control of the mobile device and at the child share mode is deactivated responsive to receiving the input to the selectable control. For example an input to the mobile device is received such as a user input of the device power button and the device share service deactivates the child share mode responsive to receiving the input to the selectable control.

At the display of the default device lock screen is reinitiated. For example the device share service at the mobile device reinitiates the display of the default device lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device at in . At audio settings of the mobile device are restored to volume levels that were designated prior to activation of the child share mode. For example the device share service at the mobile device restores the audio settings of the mobile device to volume levels that were designated prior to activation of the child share mode .

The example mobile device includes an integrated display device on which user interfaces can be displayed such as a device lock screen that indicates the device is locked at . For example a user owner of the mobile device may set up the device to lock when not in use so that someone else cannot access the full functionality of applications such as email and text and or have access to the Internet via a browser application without providing authentication credentials such as a personal identification number PIN login or other authentication credential.

The user owner of the mobile device can allow another person to use the phone and hand the phone over without having to unlock the device from the device lock screen by entering a PIN or other credential. As shown in the example a person that has borrowed the phone can swipe the device lock screen with a gesture input to access a shared space user interface which is illustrated at when displayed on the display device and which provides access to a limited subset of application functionality. The borrower does not enter a PIN or other credential to access the shared space user interface. In implementations the gesture input may be any type of user and or gesture input in any direction on the integrated display device of the mobile device. Alternatively or in addition any type of device button and or gesture inputs may be utilized effective to transition from the device lock screen to the shared space user interface .

Restricted execution modes enable implementation of a shared space on a device where a user owner can include device applications that a guest or child can access without requiring a password and the device applications will be programmatically prevented from being able to access other private device content on the device.

There may be situations when a user owner of a device may want to have access to some content or applications on their mobile phone without unlocking the phone with a PIN code or other authentication credential. Restricted execution modes enable the user owner to make some experiences available without password access and without compromising the security of sensitive personal or corporate data. In implementations restricted execution modes allow applications to run but restricts access to sensitive data or experiences using several mechanisms such as security capabilities blocked navigation and application origin. If an application has a particular security capability a runtime check is made centrally when the application attempts to access a protected resource and if the application is running in a restricted execution zone an error is returned that can be handled by the application. When a device is running in a restricted execution mode a device application may be referred to as running in a restricted execution zone .

For the blocked navigation security capability applications often take advantage of built in tasks to complete user actions like sending an email making a phone call etc. When the restricted execution mode is activated on a device the origination of a device application task at run time is what is considered to determine whether the device application and more specifically whether the task will be allowed. An application task which is generally synonymous to an application programming interface or API call may include aspects of a data access API call but it also includes a request to initiate a particular action or actions different than data access and the task request may incorporate metadata associated with the action of the requested task. The level of functionality is provided on a task by task basis to determine whether the action or actions of a requested task will be available in the restricted execution mode during run time origination of a task request. A device application can be executed by the device but only some functions of the device application will execute when the restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

Examples of restricting the functionality of a device application may include not permitting the device application to be launched altogether or limiting the device application to calling only a restricted subset of API calls that is narrower than the normal set of API calls available to the application when the mobile device is running in normal user mode. Restricting access to device content also may include disallowing certain API calls that provide access to particular sets of data or content. In many examples restricting functionality or access does not include analyzing or changing Access Control Lists ACLs Access Control Entries ACEs or similar file system access control metadata maintained by a file system. For example a device application can be restricted from access to device content while a restricted execution mode is activated on a device.

When running in a restricted execution zone all application requested navigations are screened and only those allowed by the system can continue. Others fail in a backwards compatible way so that legacy applications do not need to be updated to run in the restricted execution zone. For the application origin security capability only applications that originate and or have been downloaded from a first party provider can run e.g. execute in a restricted execution mode. This ensures that applications which have not been security checked and may access sensitive and or private data on a device do not run without the user unlocking the device first.

The mobile device includes a restricted execution service that can be implemented as a software application e.g. executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage. Additionally the restricted execution service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement embodiments of restricted execution modes as described herein. The restricted execution service may be implemented as an independent device application that is executable on the device to interface with the many applications features and functions of the device.

The example system may also include a cloud storage and service that can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data services used to store or maintain accessible data e.g. data accessible by device applications on the mobile device . Any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider. Alternatively or in addition peer to peer communication techniques may be utilized such as multiple devices connected using a peer to peer communication network.

The restricted execution service is implemented to manage a restricted execution mode of a shared space such as to limit and or restrict device applications and shared device applications that are included in the shared space that is accessible without a PIN or authentication credential. The device applications can include any type of software applications and the functions and features thereof that run on the device such as for user interaction with messaging gaming media playback document viewing and communication applications. The device applications may also include system level components that users of a device generally do not access or utilize but that typically run in the background while the device is operational. The shared device applications can include any subset of the device applications and are designated as a shared device application when included in the shared space for limited and or restricted functionality when a restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

A user owner of the mobile device can choose the device applications and features and or device content that can be included in the shared space and accessed by a child or guest while the restricted execution mode is activated. Further a device application may be allowed a restricted level of functionality while running in the shared space i.e. the application may be executed yet generally cannot access device content that is restricted from access such as contacts email and calendar databases as well as limited access to the device file system.

The content databases device file system Internet access and other device content and features can be protected from device application access when the restricted execution mode is activated. For example a device application that can access the Internet email contacts etc. when a device is unlocked and operating in a normal user mode will be automatically restricted when the restricted execution mode is activated such as if the device application has been added to the shared space and is allowed limited functionality in the shared space. As an example a digital camera application that has been added to the shared space may allow a user to take and view new photos but previous photos will be restricted from viewing the restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

The shared space user interface of the shared space is customizable by the user owner of the device. For example the user owner can add applications such as games and music applications to the shared space so that the applications are recognized and can be launched in the shared space perhaps with limited functionality. However applications that are not recognized in the shared space cannot be launched in the shared space. For example if a game application that is pinned or recognized in the shared space attempts to itself launch a browser application e.g. as part of the game s execution the restricted execution service will check if the browser application is pinned and recognized in the shared space. If the browser application is not recognized in the shared space then the restricted execution service will fail to launch the application or if the browser application is recognized then the browser application can be launched in the shared space by the game application.

As described with reference to an input can be received such as a gesture input or device selectable control input and the restricted execution service initiates a transition from displaying the device lock screen to display the shared space user interface of the shared space without receiving a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. The restricted execution service is implemented to manage the shared space when the restricted execution mode is activated. The restricted execution service can activate the restricted execution mode of the mobile device and restrict access of a device application to the device content to a file system of the mobile device and or to limit the application to a limited set of functionality or tasks while the restricted execution mode is activated.

The shared space can include a shared device application and the restricted execution service can allow the shared device application access to the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated. The restricted execution service can determine whether a device application is implemented or designed so that a user can designate to allow the device application access to the device content if the device application is included in the shared space as a shared device application. Alternatively a device application may be designed as not to be allowed access to the device content even if the device application is included in the shared space. Additionally this type of a device application may also be implemented as not even being eligible for user designation to be included in the shared space.

In restricted modes a configuration of a device application may be designed or programmed to indicate whether the device application is ever to be allowed to run e.g. execute in a restricted mode irrespective of user choice. For example a confidential corporate application or another application downloaded from a third party application store that may access private corporate data can be configured to never be allowed to run e.g. execute in any restricted mode even if a user would like it to do so. A configuration of some device applications may be user controlled to indicate whether the device application is to be allowed to run in a particular restricted mode such as allowing a subset of games or applications in a kid zone restricted mode or allowing a subset of camera lens applications to run when the phone is locked.

The restricted execution service can also be implemented to validate whether or not a given device application can be navigated to regardless of the reason for the navigation request taking into account the current restricted mode and the target application s system and user configuration. Additionally a separate navigation stack can be maintained for a normal mode user experience and for the current restricted execution mode. The restricted execution service is also implemented to allow or disallow migration of applications from the normal mode stack to the restricted mode stack or vice versa based on scenario needs and to determine when to close applications on each stack based on available resources and transitions into and out of a restricted mode.

A device application may initiate a task call to a shared device application with a request for the device content and the restricted execution service can restrict the device application access to the device content via the shared device application while the restricted execution mode is activated. The device application may also initiate a task call to the operating system to request device content access and the restricted execution service can restrict the access to the device content based on one or more device application tasks being designated as restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated.

Alternatively the device application can initiate a task call to the shared device application with a request for the device content and the request includes a request token that indicates the device application is permitted to access the device content via the shared device application in the shared space . The restricted execution service can then allow the device application access to the device content via the shared device application based on the request token while the restricted execution mode is activated. The restricted execution service can also deactivate the restricted execution mode responsive to a PIN code or authentication credential entered on the device lock screen and return to a normal user mode of the mobile device in which the device application has unrestricted access to the device content .

The restricted execution service implements a mechanism to indicate in which restricted modes a device application can run e.g. execute based on a task information field of a device application task. The task information field indicates whether a specific task can be allowed to execute in a shared space when the restricted execution mode is activated. This new field will be a bit mask which a navigation server will use to compare to the navigation filter mask that MobileUI will give to it when a restricted mode is entered. These are marked per task instead of by application because some first party device applications have tasks that can be allowed to function in a child share space e.g. Kid s Corner but not all of the application functionality is allowed while a restricted execution mode is activated on a device. If a device application is allowed to run in a shared space the restricted execution service can trace an API task call through the application layer from an originator e.g. device application that initiates the task call based on a token that is passed along to a core system component that would not otherwise be able to determine whether the task call was originated from a device application running in the shared space. The token can be utilized to determine if the task call is protected from a restricted execution mode.

At a device lock screen is displayed on an integrated display device of a mobile device. For example the mobile device displays a device lock screen on the integrated display device of the mobile device. At the display is transitioned from the device lock screen to display a shared space user interface of a shared space without a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. For example an input system of the mobile device receives an input such as a gesture input or device selectable control input and the input is effective to transition from displaying the device lock screen to display the shared space user interface of a shared space without a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen.

At a restricted execution mode of the mobile device is activated. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device activates the restricted execution mode of the mobile device in response to entering the shared space. At access of a device application to device content is restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts access of a device application to the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated.

At the restricted execution mode is deactivated responsive to a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device deactivates the restricted execution mode responsive to a PIN code or other authentication credential entered on the device lock screen. At the device returns to a user mode of the mobile device in which the device application has unrestricted access to the device content. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device returns to a user mode of the mobile device in which the device application has unrestricted access to the device content .

At a shared device application that is included in the shared space is allowed access to the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated. For example the restricted execution service at the mobile device allows access to the device content to a shared device application that is included in the shared space while the restricted execution mode is activated.

At the device application that requests access to the device content via the shared device application is restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated on the device. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts a device application task call to the shared device application with a request to access the device content while the restricted execution mode is activated on the device.

At the device application is allowed access to the device content via the shared device application while the restricted execution mode is activated based on a request token that the device application includes in a task call to the shared device application for the device content. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device allows access to the device content by the device application via the shared device application while the restricted execution mode is activated based on a request token that the device application includes in a task call to the shared device application for the device content. The request token indicates that the device application is permitted to access the device content via the shared device application in the shared space.

At access to the device content is restricted based on device application tasks being designated as restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated where the device application initiates a task call to access the device content. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts access to the device content based on device application tasks being designated as restricted while the restricted execution mode is activated where a device application initiates task calls to access the device content.

At the device application is restricted from a file system of the mobile device while the restricted execution mode is activated. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device restricts a device application from a file system of the mobile device while the restricted execution mode is activated.

At the device application is determined as user designated to allow the device application access to the device content in a restricted execution mode if the device application is included in the shared space as a shared device application. Alternatively at the device application is determined as designed as not to be allowed access to the device content even if the device application is included in the shared space. For example restricted execution service at the mobile device can determine whether a device application user designated to allow the device application access to the device content in a restricted execution mode if the device application is included in the shared space as a shared device application. The restricted execution service may also determine that a device application is designed e.g. programmed as not to be allowed access to the device content even if the device application is included in the shared space. Additionally this type of a programmed device application may also be implemented as not even being eligible for user designation to be included in the shared space.

Although described herein as a single restricted execution mode in some examples a device provides multiple restricted execution modes such as a first restricted execution mode associated with a child shared space for facilitating sharing a mobile device with a child and a second restricted execution mode associated with a safe driving shared space for facilitating safer driving by a user of a mobile device. These various restricted execution modes may each impose a different set of limitations on the functionality of the device. For example the child related execution mode might block access to email data changes to device settings or in app purchases while the second driving safety restricted execution zone might block graphical user interfaces that could distract a driver from the road.

From the lock screen displayed on a device without entering a PIN or other authentication credentials a user may be able to reach different shared spaces each of which has a different restricted execution mode associated with it. For example from the lock screen a user might enter a first gesture e.g. a left swipe to reach a first shared space having a first restricted execution mode and a second different gesture e.g. a right swipe to reach a second different shared space having a second restricted execution mode. In some examples a shared space associated with a restricted execution mode may be accessed from different entry points than receiving an input e.g. a gesture input on the lock screen.

The device includes communication devices that enable wired and or wireless communication of device data such as media content and the shared messages updates and events data at the device. The media content can include any type of audio video and or image data. The communication devices can also include transceivers for cellular phone communication and or for network data communication.

The device also includes input output I O interfaces such as data network interfaces that provide connection and or communication links between the device data networks and other devices. The I O interfaces can be used to couple the device to any type of components peripherals and or accessory devices. The I O interfaces also include data input ports via which any type of data media content and or inputs can be received such as user inputs to the device as well as any type of audio video and or image data received from any content and or data source.

The I O interfaces also support natural user interface NUI inputs to the device such as any interface technology that enables a user to interact with a device in a natural manner free from artificial constraints imposed by input devices such as mice keyboards remote controls and the like. Examples of natural user interface inputs may rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition on screen and motion gesture recognition proximate the device head eye and environment recognition and tracking augmented reality and virtual reality systems and any other type of audible vision touch gesture and or machine intelligence that may determine user input intentions.

The device includes a processing system that may be implemented at least partially in hardware such as with any type of microprocessors controllers and the like that process executable instructions. The processing system can include components of an integrated circuit programmable logic device a logic device formed using one or more semiconductors and other implementations in silicon and or hardware such as a processor and memory system implemented as a system on chip SoC . Alternatively or in addition the device can be implemented with any one or combination of software hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that may be implemented with processing and control circuits. The device may further include any type of a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures and architectures as well as control and data lines.

The device also includes computer readable storage media such as data storage devices that can be accessed by a computing device and that provide persistent storage of data and executable instructions e.g. software applications programs functions and the like . Examples of computer readable storage media include volatile memory and non volatile memory fixed and removable media devices and any suitable memory device or electronic data storage that maintains data for computing device access. The computer readable storage media can include various implementations of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and other types of storage media in various memory device configurations.

Generally computer readable storage media is representative of media and or devices that enable persistent and or non transitory storage of data in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. A computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that transmits instructions such as via a network. The signal media can embody computer readable instructions as data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves or other transport mechanism.

The computer readable storage media provides storage of the device data and various device applications such as an operating system that is maintained as a software application with the computer readable storage media and executed by the processing system . In this example the device applications also include a device share service that implements embodiments of mobile device child share such as when the example device is implemented as the mobile device shown in . An example of the device share service is the device share service that is integrated with the operating system at the mobile device as described with reference to .

The device applications can also include any of the services and applications that implement embodiments of mobile device child share. The example device also includes a family coordination architecture which may be implemented in the general context of software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry or any combination thereof to support embodiments of mobile device child share and or mobile devices family coordination. The device can also include a positioning system such as a GPS transceiver or similar positioning system components that can be utilized to determine a global or navigational position of the device.

The device also includes an audio and or video system that generates audio data for an audio device and or generates display data for a display device . The audio device and or the display device include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video display and or image data. In implementations the audio device and or the display device are integrated components of the example device . Alternatively the audio device and or the display device are external peripheral components to the example device.

In embodiments at least part of the techniques described for mobile device child share may be implemented in a distributed system such as over a cloud in a platform . The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for services and or resources . For example the services may include the cloud storage and service and any of the data services as described with reference to . Additionally the resources may include the child share profiles as described with reference to .

The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices e.g. included in the services and or software resources e.g. included as the resources and connects the example device with other devices servers etc. The resources may also include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the example device . Additionally the services and or the resources may facilitate subscriber network services such as over the Internet a cellular network or Wi Fi network. The platform may also serve to abstract and scale resources to service a demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform such as in an interconnected device embodiment with functionality distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part at the example device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Although embodiments of mobile device child share have been described in language specific to features and or methods the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of mobile device child share.

