---

title: Beam shaping and control apparatus
abstract: A method and apparatus for laser beam splitting and shaping is disclosed wherein two beam splitters are used to split one input laser beam into four beams in a generally rectangular pattern. Half-wave plates are used to adjust the power of the input laser beam between the four laser beams. A variable power optical telescope comprising negative and positive lens pairs for the four laser beams is used to adjust the divergence of the four beams, and pointing control prism wedges are used to point or steer the four beams to be parallel to each other and to adjust their relative spacing to create a flat top profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09036262&OS=09036262&RS=09036262
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09036262
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120704
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 507 172 filed Jul. 13 2011 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract number 09 C 8656 awarded by a classified customer. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to optical beam forming and specifically to a laser beam splitting and shaping system.

Laser sources are frequently used to illuminate subjects of interest and laser energy reflected therefrom is received by imaging sensors which employ signal and image processing algorithms to identify targets or other features of interest found in an image recorded by a focal plane detector.

The efficiency and sensitivity of these signal and image processing algorithms are significantly dependent on the spatial characteristics of the laser source illuminating a subject of interest. Therefore by controlling the spatial characteristics of the laser source illuminating the subject of interest the efficiency and sensitivity of the imaging processing algorithms can be substantially improved. Using lens pairs for divergence control and four sets of 2 axis pointing mirrors or four sets of Risley prism pairs for pointing control in order to independently steer each of the four different laser beams is well known. Each of these lenses mirrors and prisms generally require mechanical mounting hardware and electronic control systems to control the positioning of these devices. Thus overall these devices and systems are complex and a simpler design is needed.

Normally the spatial profile of a beam from a conventional laser device is characterized by a Gaussian cross section However for many applications a more favorable profile of a laser beam is a flat top profile. In order to convert a perfect Gaussian profile into a perfect flat top profile an optical system with considerable complexity is usually required.

A need therefore exists in the art for an optical system that can perform the laser beam split and recombine function with a minimum of optical components and less complexity. Moreover because the distance from the laser source to the target of interest may be variable a need also exists for a system to adjust the divergence of the laser source and the relative overlap of the laser beams as they are emitted from an illumination system to provide a beam with a flat top profile.

The present invention satisfies the need in the prior art. A relatively simple optical system and method are disclosed which first splits a laser beam from a single laser source into two separate laser beams then splits each of these two laser beams into two laser beams for a total of four laser beams. The divergence and pointing of the final resulting four beams are then controlled to allow them to be spatially recombined in an overlapping manner that overlaps the four beams into a single rectangular profile that has a flat top profile rather than a Gaussian profile.

It is desirable to have a relatively simple optical system that can perform the laser beam splitting and recombination function to mate a flat top profile with a minimum of optical components. Moreover because the distance from the laser source to a target of interest may be variable it is desirable to be able to adjust the divergence of the four laser beams and the relative overlap of the four laser beams as they are emitted from the novel optical system. in addition the relative power in each of the four output beams can he adjusted.

In a first embodiment of the invention an input laser beam is directed into a first beam splitting device that first vertically splits the beam into two laser beams. Each of these two laser beams is then split horizontally by a second beam splitting device into two more laser beams to form a rectangular pattern of the resulting four laser beams. Each of these four laser beams is then directed individually into a focusing lens and then onward toward a common diverging negative powered lens.

Four prism wedges are interspersed between the four focusing lenses and the common diverging lens for pointing control so that the four laser beams are pointed toward the virtual focal point of the diverging lens while being parallel to each other with the relative spacing between the four beams being predetermined. In the first embodiment of the invention the divergence of the four laser beams is controlled by adjusting the horizontal position or spacing between the four focusing lenses and the common diverging lens. The pointing of the four laser beams is controlled by adjusting the position of the prism wedges orate pointing control between the focusing lenses and the diverging lens. In addition to providing pointing control with the four prism wedges and divergence control with the negative and positive lenses these optical elements may include half wave plates that can alter the polarization of the transmitted light. These half wave plates also provide beam control to vary the relative power in each of the four laser beams. This is done by placing half wave plates before each of the optical elements that perform the beam splitting operations.

In a variant of the invention the first input laser beam is first split into two laser beams horizontally by a first beam splitter and then each or these two laser beams is split vertically by a second beam splitter into two laser beams for a total of four laser beams. In another variant of the invention the second beam splitter splits the two beams simultaneously with the same optical element. In yet another variant of the invention the four individual prisms of the pointing control can be replaced by a single pyramid shaped prism in which four prisms are fabricated out of a single piece of optical material.

The pointing optics guides the four laser beams to be parallel to each another and determines their relative spacing. The pointing optic for each of the four beamlets is typically a prism wedge positioned between the positive lens and the negative lens mentioned in the previous paragraph and the pointing of the four laser beams is controlled by moving its associated prism wedge along the optical axis of the system.

In is shown a block diagram of the method steps performed by the beam splitting and shaping system of the present invention in a very brief form to describe the method steps involved and generally how they are linked to the optical hardware that comprises the invention. In block is represented a single laser beam being input to the apparatus from a laser source as shown in . The laser beam is reflected off a mirror and passes through a half wave plate shown in both . In block the single laser beam from laser source is split vertically into two beams by a beam splitter as shown in . One of the two last mentioned laser beams passes through first polarizer which is part of beam splitter and then passes through a half wave plate . The other of the two last mentioned laser beams reflects off polarizer then off mirror and then passes through the half wave plate . In block is horizontal beam splitter where the laser beam from each of mirror and polarizer are each split again so there are four beams output from horizontal beam splitter . In block each of the four laser beams output from beam splitter passes through its own positive lens one of lenses A B and A B of divergence control . In block laser beam pointing control is accomplished by a group of four prism wedges P one wedge for each of the four laser beams and then the four beams pass through a common negative lens . The lenses A B A B and act as a variable power telescope that control the divergence of each of the our laser beams leaving the exit aperture of negative lens . The power is varied by moving lenses A B and A B individually or together as a group as necessary closer to or further away from lens . More particularly. This controls the divergence of the four beamlets exiting common lens to space the beamlets such as shown in versus . Stated another way the divergence control A B A B and pointing control prism wedges A D provide the ability to adjust the size and relative positions of the four output beamlets as shown in .

The beam splitting and shaping system comprises two thin film polarizers and two highly reflective minors and two half wave plates and four prism wedges A D for pointing control and a divergence control comprising four positive plano convex lenses A B and A B and one negative plano concave lens . Each of lenses A B and A B are 200 millimeter lenses and lens is a 115 millimeter lens. The four thin prism wedges A D each have a wedge angle of approximately 2 degrees. The distance between half wave plate and plano concave lens is 400 millimeters.

A laser source not shown in but shown in reflects off the far side of mirror positioned at forty five degrees and then passes through beam splitting optics and for splitting laser beam both vertically and horizontally into four beams beamlets . Alternatively laser beam may be input directly without a mirror . The splitting of laser beam may be accomplished in either order. That is vertical splitting followed by horizontal splitting as shown or alternatively horizontal splitting followed vertical splitting.

As shown laser beam first passes through a half wave plate for power control then impinges on thin film polarizer plate of beam splitter which splits beam into two beams beamlets one beamlet of which passes through plate and impinges on half wave plate . The other beamlet reflects off plate then reflects off highly reflective mirror and impinges on half wave plate . Half wave plate acts as a power control that when rotated azimuthally controls the relative fraction of the power of laser beam contained in the upper and lower beams and .

The two beamlets one reflected respectively from mirror and the other passing through thin film polarizer plate pass through half wave plate and impinge on a horizontal beam splitter . Half wave plate when rotated azimuthally controls the relative fraction of the power of the laser beam between the left and right beamlet pairs output from beam splitter . Horizontal beam splitter splits each of these two beamlets and horizontally into two beamlets for a total of four beamlets. This is better seen in conjunction with . The two beamlets passing through half wave plate impinge on a thin film polarizer plate which splits each of the two beamlets into two beamlets for a total of four beamlets.

One of the two beamlets created from beamlet passes through polarizer plate and impinges on a plano convex lens A while the other of the two beamlets created from beamlet reflects off polarizer plate reflects off mirror and impinges on a plano convex lens A. Similarly one of the two beamlets created from beamlet passes through polarizer plate and impinges on a plano convex lens B while the other of the two beamlets created from beamlet reflects off plate and reflects off mirror and impinges on a plano convex lens B. Lenses A B and A B are part of the divergence control which along with plano concave lens make up a positive and negative lens pair that create a variable power telescope. The power is varied by moving lenses A B and A B individually as necessary closer to or further away from lens . More particularly this controls the divergence of the four beamlets exiting common lens to space the beamlets further part such as shown in versus . In an alternate embodiment of the invention other lens types could be utilized that create a variable power telescope.

The four beamlets each pass through an associated one of the four plano convex lens A B and A B and then each passes through a dedicated one of prism wedges A D That is the beamlet passing through lens A passes through prism A the beamlet passing through lens B passes through prism B the beamlet passing through lens A passes through prism C and the beamlet passing through lens B passes through prism D. Beam pointing is accomplished using prism wedges A D. Each of lenses A B and A B have focal length values of 200 millimeters and lens has a focal length value of 115 millimeters.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention described herein each of the four prism wedges A D has a wedge angle of approximately 2 degrees and is a four sided pyramid that are all oriented in a manner to direct each of the four beamlets towards the rear virtual focal plane of the negative lens . The result is that the four beamlets emerging from the four prism wedges A D are parallel to each other as they are directed into the far field. Pointing the beams that is adjusting their relative angular separation is accomplished by translating the array of the four prisms A D longitudinally between lenses A B and A B and the common negative lens .

The four beamlets exiting prism wedges A D all pass through a common plano concave lens that has a focal length of 115 millimeters and the four beamlets appear as shown in circle A. The lenses A B A B cooperate with lens to act as a variable power telescope that controls the divergence of the four laser beamlets leaving the exit aperture of negative leas . This is best seen m .

Although the thin film polarizers and the half wave plate components provide the ability to arbitrarily adjust the relative power in the four emitted beams and allow for adjustment during continuous operation an alternate embodiment of this invention exists in which the thin film polarizers are replaced by beam splitters having a preset beam splitting fraction so that the relative brightness of the transmitted and reflected beams is fixed at a constant value. In this embodiment the half wave plates would not be needed for adjusting power in each of the laser beamlets.

Due to the fact that the configuration of the pointing control prism wedges A D requires passing a convergent light beam through a thin prism each beamlet exiting the prism wedges may have its wavefront distorted by aberrations known as astigmatism and coma. If needed this effect can be mediated by applying certain shape corrections to the prism faces or to lens elements A B A B and of divergence control . More specifically these shape corrections can be defined by changing the shape of the concave surface on lens from a spherical surface to an aspheric surface.

Thin film polarizers such as and used for beam splitting are known in the art polarizer is an optical filter that passes light of a specific polarization and blocks waves of other polarizations It can convert a beam of light of undefined or mixed polarization into a beam with well defined polarization. The common types of polarizers are linear polarizers and circular polarizers. Thin film polarizers are typically glass substrates on which a special optical coating is applied. Interference effects in the film cause them to act as beam splitting polarizers. They arc inexpensive and provide two beams that are about equally well polarized. Beam splitting polarizers split an incident beam into two beams of differing linear polarization. For an ideal polarizing beam splitter these would be fully polarized with orthogonal polarizations. For many common beam splitting polarizers however only one of the two output beams is fully polarized. The other contains a mixture of polarization states. Beam splitting polarizers do not need to absorb and dissipate the energy of the rejected polarization state and so they are more suitable for use with high intensity beams such as laser light.

Half wave plates such as and are also known in the art. Half wave plates retard one polarization of a laser beam by half a wavelength or 180 degrees. This type of half wave plate changes the polarization direction of linear polarized light. Wave plates in general as well as polarizers can be described using the Jones matrix formalism which uses a vector to represent the polarization state of light and a matrix to represent the linear transformation of a wave plate or polarizer.

While what has been described herein is the preferred embodiment of the invention and some alternative embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that numerous changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

