---

title: Methods and systems for robotic analysis of environmental conditions and response thereto
abstract: Methods and systems for robotic analysis of an ambient environment, as well as a user, are provided. In some examples, a robotic device may provide a personalized interaction or response to a user based on a determined state of the environment (such as local weather), and a state of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08406926&OS=08406926&RS=08406926
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08406926
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120504
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 483 295 filed on May 6 2011 and to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 596 533 filed on Feb. 8 2012 the entire contents of each of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or system or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud. 

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives etc. . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

In one example a user may open a browser and connect to a host of web servers that run user interface software that collect commands from the user and interpret the commands into commands on the servers. The servers may handle the computing and can either store or retrieve information from database servers or file servers and display an updated page to the user. Through cloud computing data across multiple servers can be synchronized around the world allowing for collaborative work on one file or project from multiple users around the world for example.

In one example a method is provided that comprises receiving at a robotic device that includes at least one sensory device an environmental input including data relating to an environmental condition about an environment in a vicinity of the robotic device. The method also comprises receiving at the robotic device a user related input including data relating to a user in a vicinity of the robotic device and processing the environmental input to obtain information about a state of the environmental condition from an informational source containing environmental information. The method further comprises performing by the robotic device an output function based on the state of the environmental condition and the user related input.

In another example a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein instructions executable by a robotic device that includes at least one sensory device to cause the robotic device to perform functions is provided. The function comprise receiving at the robotic device an environmental input including data relating to an environmental condition about an environment in a vicinity of the robotic device. The functions also comprise receiving at the robotic device a user related input including data relating to a user in a vicinity of the robotic device. The functions also comprise processing the environmental input to obtain information about a state of the environmental condition from an informational source containing environmental information and performing by the robotic device an output function based on the state of the environmental condition and the user related input.

In another example a robotic device is provided that comprises one or more processors and at least one sensor coupled to the one or more processors and configured to capture environmental data about an environment in a vicinity of the sensor or a user. The robotic device also comprises memory including instructions stored thereon executable by the one or more processors to perform functions. The functions comprise obtaining user related data from an electronic device and the user related data relates to communication between the user and the electronic device. The functions also comprise obtaining from the at least one sensor environment sensory data about a sensed environment condition and processing the environment sensory data to determine environment information about a state of the environment from an informational source containing environment information. The functions also comprise determining an output function based on the environment information and the user related data.

Any of the methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions of the method. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.

The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is wired to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In yet further examples any type of devices may be used or configured as means for performing functions of any of the methods described herein or any portions of the methods described herein .

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the Figures and the following Detailed Description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying Figures which form a part hereof. In the Figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure includes inter alia methods and systems for robot and user interaction over the cloud. Within examples cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A robot may be any device that has a computing ability and interacts with its surroundings with an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A client device may be configured as a robot including various sensors and devices in the forms of modules and different modules may be added or removed from robot depending on requirements. In some examples a robot may be configured to receive a second device such as mobile phone that may be configured to function as an accessory or a brain of the robot.

In examples described herein a robot may interact with the cloud to perform any number of actions such as to share information with other cloud computing devices. Within examples a robot may interact with a user in a manner that is based upon many types of received information. A robot may access a user device to determine or identify information about a user or related to the user and the robot may be configured to tailor a method of interaction with the user based on the identified information. A robot may further receive data associated with the user to identify the user such as using speech or face recognition. The robot may provide a personalized interaction or response to the user based on the determined information of the user or based on a user profile. In some instances a default user profile may be provided and can be linked to other profiles that the user has created as on social networking sites such that the robot can access up to date and accurate information regarding the user. The user profile may include information corresponding to the user s personality history lifestyle preferences and or predispositions. The robot may use such information when interacting with the user.

In some examples a robotic apparatus may have the capability to perform actions using contextual situational data obtained from the environment of the robotic apparatus or a user such as time of day weather outside and condition of the user for example. In particular a robot may be configured to assess a vicinity of the robot or environment for environmental data and also assess a user to obtain user data. The robot may process the environmental and user data either locally or through a cloud based computational system to extract and analyze matching and or related or comparative data as well as collateral information related to the environment and or user. The robot may further be configured to determine a conclusion as a result of the analysis performed.

The term environment will be used in this disclosure as a generic reference to whatever may be assessed in the way of conditions in the local vicinity of the robot sometimes also referred to as the ambient environment or a remote vicinity which may be where a user is located or may be located at some future time or where there is some interest presented to the robot or user. The environment could also include a condition of the user such as what the user is wearing holding doing . For example a robot may determine that a local environment has progressed to a nighttime state. During nighttime the robot may be configured to move slowly and make less noise to be quiet and thus based on the environmental conditions the robot may adjust functionality accordingly so as to operate in a mode that adapts to the environmental condition. As another example based on a determination that a local environment is in a morning state the robot may be configured to perform a function of making coffee and offering coffee to the user possibly based on past conduct or from accessing an informational resource that a user drinks coffee in the morning .

As a further example based on a determination that local weather is rainy e.g. possibly through receiving an input at a sensor of the robot or from accessing a device or informational resource with weather data the robot may be configured to perform a function of obtaining an umbrella and offering the umbrella to a user who the robot has determined from user input is about to venture outside. Thus the robot may be configured to determine context situation data from the environment and or the user and determine an appropriate response function.

Referring now to the Figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more of fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. Components of the cloud may be in communication via wired or wireless links. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the infrastructure .

The system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers infrared sensors optical sensors still image or motion picture biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems RADAR wireless sensors haptic arrays and other touch sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robot and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robot based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot as discussed above.

The client device may also have components or devices that allow the client device to interact with its environment. For example the client device may have mechanical actuators such as motors wheels or movable arms that enable the client device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the client device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from a client device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the client device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the client device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using a mobile phone to download the routine from the cloud and when the mobile phone is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action.

In some examples the client device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the Internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the client device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

The mountable device may further be configured to maximize runtime usage of the robot e.g. if the robot could learn what happens to cause the user to turn the toy off or set the toy down the device may be configured to perform functions to counteract such occurrences .

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software such as the robotic development platform ESRP from Evolution Robotics and MRDS Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio and other examples also include ROSJAVA. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework .

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send sensory data of clothing attributes to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data back from the cloud based upon processing of that sensory data. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the Internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be compiled into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of a clothing object image and upload the image to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the image and provide data to all the robots connected to the cloud about the recognized clothing as well as possibly about other characteristics e.g. metadata of the recognized object such as a location size weight color. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of an object in an image uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people or other robots. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. For example the robot may be evaluating a user s selection of a clothing item. Robot makes an assessment or determination based upon the observed clothing and or user which can be shared with the other robots and through the cloud . Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. One or more of these other robots may be outside in the outdoors and may proceed to perform some further function such as obtaining environmental data on ambient weather conditions. In another example the robot can download data indicating images seen by the other robots and to help the robot better identify an article of clothing using various views e.g. in instances in which the robots and have captured images of the objects from a different perspective .

In still another example the robot may build a map of an area and the robot can download the map to have knowledge of the area. Similarly the robot could update the map created by the robot with new information about the area e.g. the hallway now has boxes or other obstacles or with new information collected from sensors that the robot may not have had e.g. the robot may be an outdoor robot and may record and add temperature data to the map if the robot did not have a temperature sensor . Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

Sharing and adaptation capabilities enable a variety of applications based on a variety of inputs data received from the robots and . In a specific example data regarding a history of a customer can be provided to a new robot interacting with that customer.

In one example the cloud may include store or provide access to a database of information related to objects and the database may be accessible by all the robots and . The database may include information identifying clothing food weather states machine operations and details of all kinds that can be accessed by the robots and to perform recognition correlation determination and output functions.

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base stored in the cloud .

Thus in some examples robots may share new or learned behaviors through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities or behaviors resulting in a shared knowledge base of behaviors and heuristics for object interactions e.g. a robot app store . Specifically a given robot may perform actions and build a compendium and then the robot can upload the data to the cloud to share this knowledge with all other robots. In this example a transportation of the given robot s consciousness can be made through the cloud from one robot to another e.g. robot Bob builds up a map of some clothing and the knowledge of Bob can be downloaded onto another robot to receive knowledge of the map .

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database .

As mentioned robots or any client computing device may interact with the cloud and users to perform any number of functions. Example functions are described below.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes capturing sensory data of the environment. In an example a robot may capture or receive sensory data of the environment. The robot may include a computer processor memory and operating system and sensors configured to capture or receive sensory data of the environment. As an example the robot may be configured to capture many images of objects using any number of sensors such as a camera still pictures or video feeds infrared projectors and other sensors as discussed herein. The environmental data may further be drawn from electronic data capture.

At block the method includes capture information associated with characteristics about a user. Block functions and need not be in this order. As an example a robot may determine or record dimensions a texture color pattern material or any type of physical attribute of clothing being worn by the user. As another example in an instance in which the robot may communicate with an object the robot may capture data of the object such as by accessing a magnetic strip RFID near field communication clip bar code of the clothing item. The robot may communicate with the clothing to determine many types of data. Further user data could be drawn from a user device.

Thus the robot may include at least one additional sensory device capable of capturing data concerning a user in the vicinity of the robotic apparatus to thereby obtain user data input. Obtaining user data input may include a first device associated with the robotic apparatus obtaining user data from a second device and the user data may relate to communication between a user and the second device containing user data. The second device may be one or more of a personal computer a mobile telephone a tablet computer and a landline telephone.

At block the method includes query a computing device with the captured image and or information. This may be an informational resource. As an example the robot may query the cloud with a captured image by sending the captured image to the cloud and requesting information about the image or electronic data such as an identity of the image or information associated with the ambient environment. Alternatively or in addition the robot may query another robot directly to request information about the user such as preferences and mood.

At block the method includes receiving information or retrieving information associated with the query. For example the robot may receive data from the cloud indicating an identity of the clothing in the image or other information related to the environment. As an example environmental and user data can be processed to obtain and retrieve information regarding a state of the environment drawn from an informational source containing environmental information which may reside in the robotic apparatus memory otherwise accessible locally or may be remote as in a cloud computing system. The information may include or be indicative of a state related to weather conditions for example.

At block the method includes performing an action based on the received information. The action may vary based on a type of received information or the query that is presented by the robot. As an example the robot may query the cloud to identify the clothing and details of the clothing and weather information to enable the robot to interact with the user. The action could also include storing the received information for future recognitions. For example after receiving the information from the cloud the robot could be able to recognize the clothing in the future enabling the robot to learn and adapt. Storing is an optional step.

As one example environmental information is used by the robotic apparatus in performing an output function for the robotic apparatus based upon the environmental information obtained. User data can also be applied in the processing step to obtain information regarding a state of the user and the output function can further include relating the state of the user and the state of the environment e.g. weather conditions.

In one example the robot may determine from sensory input and or information received from the query that a user is sweating having just come in from the outdoors. The robot may further access electronic data indicating that the temperature was hot outside and from a user device learn that the user was scheduled to run in the last hour. Processing these various data the robot may determine a function of obtaining a drink of water for the user.

As a further example the robot may assess that a human subject wearing clothing has a generally light weight shirt and pants selected. Using environmental data gathered from other devices such as an electronic weather service or determined by the robot from its own sensors the robot may make a determination that the weather outside is likely too cold for the human s currently selected clothing and may thereby make a suggestion of some alternative or additional clothing more appropriate for the outside conditions.

In examples block may be executed by the robotic device accessing a database of output functions and selecting a given output function based on the environmental information and user related data received and determined. The environmental data may be determined using sensors of the robot or received via a query request to a server. The user related data may also be determined using sensors of the robot e.g. capture images of a user or received via a query request to a user device to obtain information about communications between the user and the user device. Other examples are possible as well.

Clothing may refer to whatever may be assessed in the way of garments apparel protective coverings adornment or the like which may be worn by a person or object or displayed for ultimately being worn.

The robot may engage in image and information capture in an interaction with the clothing using any sensory inputs described above such as a camera. The robot may then initially process that sensory input using an appropriate clothing sensory input capture application . Alternatively the raw sensory input may be uploaded through a query to a cloud computing system or some computational database where the sensory input can be processed. In this example the robot also has the capability to obtain other data input which could for instance be environmental data weather outside here it is raining or data about the wearer or likely wearer of the clothing being sensed. That other information could be obtained using another information capture application for instance. This could be captured electronically such as by connecting with an Internet weather source for weather information. In some examples the methodology of application to facilitate object recognition may be a higher level service e.g. higher in a software stack such that details and specifics for how to recognize an object may be performed by the cloud.

The robot may be configured to perform actions functions based on a result of object recognition rather than or in addition to performing functions regarding recognizing an object. As an example using the application the robot may execute software to perform immediate function calls such as OrientObject which may return information associated with an object e.g. placing it right side up or RotateObject which may cause the robot to pick up the object and obtain further views sensory inputs. These immediate functions could be done through local processing within the robot or by enabling function calls and operation through the cloud which greatly facilitates control and operation of the robot without having to control or tie up more limited computational capacities of the robot for example.

There are many ways that the image capture of sensory input may be obtained one being the use of pixilation data taken of the clothing. This may be of an initial target area of the clothing item and used to orient the robot assessment hardware e.g. image capture camera CCD and the like . Multiple area images being used to estimate the possible location of clothing on a subject.

If the subject has a face for instance then determination of an input recognizing the existence of a face can then be used to orient the rest of the data being obtained. That is the subject may be initially scanned to determine if a face is present. From the face position as an anchor torso and limbs extended from the torso can thereby be resolved for the subject. Having determined a basic nature of the subject then this can form a boundary of the clothing.

The robot may access the user device to determine or identify information about a user and the robot may be configured to tailor a method of interaction with the user based on the identified information and the information that will be retrieved concerning the clothing. There are many examples of types of information that the robot may access including but not limited to a user s calendar to determine information associated with activities the user performed or was scheduled to perform e.g. who the user will meet with that day a user s email text messages or other electronic correspondence. Other examples of types of information include accessing weather information.

The robot is shown equipped with several optical image capturing cameras . One camera might suffice but in this example there are multiple cameras to enable a full body scan as well as yielding some stereoscopic depth. The robot is also provided with an ultrasonic or other acoustic scanner to provide an ability to obtain some information about the material of the clothing such as density coarseness contour surface features just to name a few.

The robot is also provided with one or more extendable appendage or extensor . The appendage includes tactile sensors at the end of finger tip like members which enable the robot to obtain information on the article of clothing associated with typical feel. Thee members may also include chemical sniffers or receptors which may obtain data about the chemical makeup of the sensed area. The appendage also gives the robot the ability to manipulate the clothing here shown as a shirt pants belt shoes and hat .

Analysis may proceed by segmentation or gridding of the subject. This may be used for later assessment of a hat shirt coat or a pair of pants for instance. Besides acoustical sensing reflectivity of a region may be used as an input for later assessment as to whether the particular article of clothing is baggy or tight creased or wrinkled.

With some or all of the sensory input processing of the clothing data then occurs. This can include a matching process using a database library or general access information available locally to the robot or accessed through a cloud based computation system. Matching software may be used to extract similar images and collateral information related to those images e.g. manufacturer cost availability material s demographics of common purchasers and so forth . The similar image or images may be drawn from a library or collection of images e.g. an e commerce library .

The robot also obtains information about the ambient environment such as weather conditions. This can be done though an electronic data capture mechanism such as accessing an electronic device or resource having weather information or the like.

At block the method includes determining information associated with the user. For example the robot may access information on a user s mobile phone such as a calendar application email call logs photographs. The robot may further access contact data user accounts third party applications on the mobile phone to determine information associated with the user.

At block the method includes the robot relating the user information obtained with information obtained on the clothing in point. The robot may make a conclusion or inference or selection in real time using artificial intelligence based on an analysis of the data.

At block the method includes applying the related informational inputs from environmental assessment and user data determined or retrieved and perform an interaction with the user based thereon. That may be a suggestion on what clothing may be alternatively available take an umbrella or what may be useful based upon some environmental or scheduling assessment.

The actions or functions of the method may be performed by the robot the cloud or components of the cloud in a distributed manner. Alternatively all actions or functions of the method may be performed locally by the robot.

Still as another alternative example actions or functions of the method may be performed by the robot which may make queries to the cloud to facilitate performing the functions. For instance the robot may access the schedule of the user as by the robot querying the cloud to request an analysis of an email and based on the analysis the robot may make the inference regarding the dress of the user.

A robot may also obtain information from a user device communicating through a cloud. For example referring to a robot may utilize information in the user profile to interact with a cloud such as cloud shown in system . Alternatively a robot may access cloud to access the user profile stored on cloud . A user profile may include information identifying the mobile device and the computer each coupled to the cloud . The user profile may also have information indicating when the user interacts with mobile device and computer . A robot may use the user profile to determine when to interact with the cloud and or with other robots such as robot client directly to obtain communication between the user and mobile device and computer .

Actions or functions of the example methods may be performed by the robot the cloud or components of the cloud in a distributed manner. Alternatively all actions or functions of a method may be performed locally by the robot.

In another example as described above with reference to robots may interact and share information through the cloud. A given robot may determine and store preferences about a given user as to clothing. A robot may respond to different users in different ways. The robot may be configured to perform actions associated with a given person that may be learned over time based on interactions with a user that may be designed by a person author or may be a combination of learned and designed responses for example.

A robot s knowledge can be transferred from one robot to another robot or information stored on one robot can be shared with another robot over the cloud. This may enable one robot encountering a user to learn from experiences accumulated from other robots interacting with similar users as well as many other forms of generalization and personalization.

In some examples robots operating in a given city or country may be configured to operate according to local customs or cultures and adapt suggestions to the local culture. The robots may receive shared personalities of another robot but may modify the shared personality to be in line with local customs or cultures for example.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

