---

title: Glyph rendering
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for rendering a glyph. Rendering data for the glyph can be received, such as size, shape, color, etc., along with first sub-pixel position for initially rendering the glyph on a display. A first rendering quality can be identified for the first sub-pixel position and second rendering quality can be identified for a second sub-pixel position, which may comprise an alternate rendering position. A sub-pixel position shift can be selected for the glyph based at least upon a comparison of the first and second rendering qualities. The sub-pixel position shift can comprise a difference between the first sub-pixel position and the second sub-pixel position, where the second rendering quality is selected/preferable over the first rendering quality. The glyph can be rendered by applying the selected sub-pixel position shift.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311896&OS=09311896&RS=09311896
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09311896
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120227
---
In a computing environment a computer font can comprise a style of characters e.g. alphanumeric characters in a particular typeface. Computer fonts can typically be scaled to larger or smaller sizes bolded and or italicized while retaining their typeface style. Characteristics of a font can comprise a stroke width weight character slope or angle and character width e.g. as well as height . Typically a font may be comprised of a plurality of glyphs e.g. characters portions of characters segments of portions of the characters etc. which may comprise different rendering characteristics on different displays.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

It may be appreciated that glyphs of a font may make up characters and or portions of characters of the font. For example a glyph may comprise an entire character of the font or rather the character may be comprised of merely a single glyph. A character can also in some instances be comprised of multiple glyphs. It may be appreciated that character and or the like may be regarded in the art as comprising a semantic meaning while glyph is generally regarded as a pictorial representation of a character. For example the letter B is a character that has the semantic meaning of the b phonetic sound and there are several potential glyphs that can represent that character including B b or even a rebus picture of a bee.

It may be appreciated that different techniques may be implemented when rendering glyphs but that some of these techniques can in some instances result in an undesirable viewing experience. For example over blurring may occur where anti aliasing techniques are implemented to address issues such as pixilation and or artifacts such as when attempting to render high resolution objects e.g. text on a low resolution display. Poorly rendered glyphs e.g. overly blurry text may be more difficult to read providing a reduced user experience.

Accordingly among other things one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed for improving rendering quality of glyphs. A glyph can comprise rendering data such as size shape color etc. along with an initial rendering position on a display. The initial rendering position may comprise a sub pixel position whose rendering quality can be compared with rendering qualities of one or more alternate sub pixel rendering positions for the glyph. If a more desirable rendering quality e.g. relative to a rendering quality associated with an initial position is identified the associated alternate sub pixel position can be selected for rendering the glyph.

In one embodiment of rendering a glyph the glyph and a first sub pixel position for the glyph can be received. Further a sub pixel position shift can be selected for the glyph based at least upon a rendering quality for the glyph at a second sub pixel position. The sub pixel position shift may comprise a difference between the first sub pixel position and the second sub pixel position. Additionally the glyph can be rendered such as on a display by applying the sub pixel position shift to the first sub pixel position.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In one embodiment an image element may comprise a pixel. Often pixel is used to describe a unit of an image for example where the unit may comprise a smallest element of the image that can be represented and or controlled. As one example a pixel may comprise an addressable screen element of a display device e.g. screen pixel sub pixel a single point in a raster image and or a single point in a printed picture. Further as an example a pixel may comprise an address corresponding to coordinates e.g. X Y coordinates row and column coordinates Euclidean space coordinates etc. for the image and or display screen. In one embodiment the image element may comprise any type of image unit e.g. pixel sub pixel etc. that can be represented and or controlled. Typically for example an image can be comprised of a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and or columns e.g. or some other pattern to create objects e.g. glyphs and or portions of glyphs colors shades tones etc. within the image.

In the example embodiment a first set comprises six pairs of pixels and a second set comprises a different six pairs of pixels. In this embodiment for example the respective pairs of pixels may represent a same physical pixel pair e.g. on a display screen merely comprising a different view of the pair e.g. at a different relationship between shades of gray of the pixels . That is for example the thirteen pixel pairs may indicate a gradual shift in shades of gray e.g. using the 12 1 scale over factor and 13 shades of gray for example where white may be referred as a 1shade and black may be referred as a 13shade between a first pixel and a second pixel where color of the first pixel starts at black and shifts to white and color of the second pixel starts at white and shifts to black. It may be appreciated however that is merely an example and scale over factors and number of shades of gray used in sampling for example may vary depending upon a number of factors such as a width of a rendering filter and associated coefficients as well as over scale factors for example.

In the first set a right pixel or first side of the pixel pairs shifts shades from white e.g. 1shade of gray to a sixth gray shade and a left pixel or second side of the pixel pairs shifts from black e.g. 13shade of gray to an eighth gray shade. Further in the second set still moving from top to bottom a right pixel or first side shifts shades from the eighth gray shade to black e.g. 13shade of gray and a left pixel or second side shifts from the sixth gray shade to white e.g. 1shade of gray . Further at a second pair the respective pixels comprise a same shade of gray e.g. a middle seventh shade between black and white . That is for example a gray scale lumina value can be adjusted for the respective pixels where a higher lumina value may comprise a lighter gray e.g. highest lumina white may correspond to the lowest shade of grade calculated based on over scale factors than a lower lumina value e.g. lowest lumina black may correspond to the highest shade of gray calculated based on over scale factors .

In one embodiment shifting the gray scale level from black e.g. lowest lumina value in the first pixel of the pixel pair to white e.g. highest lumina value and shifting the gray scale from white in the second pixel of the pixel pair to black over the 12 1 scale over may illustrate how an object e.g. glyph may appear to be rendered at different locations e.g. sub pixel positions between two pixels. That is for example a type of virtual sub pixel position may be indicated by the lumina values in two adjacent pixels.

For example a first pair may indicate a first sub pixel position A e.g. comprising merely the first pixel which is shaded black a second pair may indicate a second sub pixel position B e.g. where the pixels respectively comprise a same shade of gray and a third pair may indicate a third sub pixel position C e.g. comprising merely the second pixel which is shaded black completing the shift of the virtual sub pixel position e.g. a glyph over virtual sub pixel grid from the first pixel in the pair to the second pixel in the pair. As one example when a pixel pair e.g. or is viewed from a distance such as by a user viewing a display the individual pixels may not be distinguishable by the viewer e.g. as they are too small to be distinguished by human vision instead a rendered object e.g. glyph may appear to be at a particular location or position based upon the respective lumina values of the pixels in the pixel pair e.g. at times referred to as sub pixel position or virtual sub pixel position . Thus based upon the respective lumina values of the pixels in the pixel pairs the first pair may appear to comprise a first sub pixel position A at a first location the second pair may appear to comprise a second sub pixel position B at a second location e.g. shifted somewhat from the first location and the third pair may appear to comprise a third sub pixel position C at a third location e.g. shifted somewhat from the second location and shifted even further from the first location .

Typical glyph rendering techniques such as for rendering text may produce a loss of quality for example due to over blurring of glyphs. As provided herein among other things a method may be devised that can provide for rendering a glyph in a desired e.g. more desirable view. A location for rendering a glyph can be chosen by identifying a rendering quality of the glyph at one or more sub pixel positions and selecting a sub pixel position that provides the desired view of the glyph e.g. desired quality positioning relative to other glyphs etc. . The glyph can be rendered such as on a display for a user using the selected sub pixel position for example.

At a sub pixel position shift is selected for the glyph based at least upon a rendering quality for the glyph at a second sub pixel position. The sub pixel position shift comprises a difference between the first sub pixel position e.g. initial sub pixel position and the second sub pixel position. As one example a rendering quality can comprise an objective measurement of user viewing clarity of the glyph such as in relation parts of the glyph and or to other rendered glyphs. For example when anti aliasing techniques are applied to rendering of a glyph a certain amount of blur may be perceived by a user. The blur may be a result of using certain shades of gray e.g. mid range gray shades in adjacent pixels e.g. comprising a portion of the glyph when rendering the glyph e.g. particularly when using low resolution monitors which may result in soft edges for a rendered glyph for example.

In one embodiment one or more second sub pixel positions may be identified for rendering at least a portion of the glyph and a corresponding rendering quality can be determined for the respective one or more second sub pixel positions. In this embodiment the second sub pixel position that comprises a desired rendering quality e.g. a low amount of blur may be selected. Further in this embodiment a difference between the first sub pixel position and the selected second sub pixel position can be determined e.g. a difference between sub pixel position B and sub pixel position C in .

At the glyph can be rendered by applying the sub pixel position shift. As one example the sub pixel position shift can be combined with the first sub pixel position for respective one or more portions of the glyph and the resulting combination can be used to render the glyph. For example the combination of an initial position for the glyph and the sub pixel position shift may result in a rendering position for the glyph on a display used by a user viewing the glyph. In this way for example the resulting rendered glyph may comprise a desired rendering quality thereby improving a user s viewing experience.

In one embodiment a second sub pixel position may comprise a virtual sub pixel position for at least a portion of the glyph which is different than the first sub pixel position. As one example as described in a virtual sub pixel position can comprise a particular arrangement of gray scale shades e.g. or color scale shades between adjacent image elements e.g. pixels physical sub pixels etc. . In this example the first sub pixel position may comprise a first arrangement of gray scale shades between a first and second pixel and the second sub pixel position can comprise a second arrangement of the gray scale shades between the first and second pixel.

For example a first sub pixel position may comprise a lowest gray shade e.g. white in the first pixel and a highest gray shade e.g. black in the second pixel while a second sub pixel position may comprise a highest gray shade e.g. black in the first pixel and a lowest gray shade e.g. white in the second pixel. It can be appreciated that there may be varying gray shades among any number of sub pixel pairs between such first and second sub pixel positions.

At in the example embodiment a sub pixel position rendering quality can be determined for at least a portion of the glyph for the respective one or more identified sub pixel positions. Determining the rendering quality can comprise identifying at an edge quality for at least a portion of the glyph at the sub pixel position. As one example a glyph can comprise a font character which may be made up of one or more edges e.g. a text letter comprising straight lines and or curves . In this example an edge quality may be quantified and an edge quality value can be used to determine at least a portion of the rendering quality at that sub pixel position.

In one embodiment the edge quality may be determined by identifying a perceived sharpness of an edge from one or more portions of the glyph. As one example edge blur can affect perceived edge sharpness. For example edge blur may result from attempts at smoothing font characters such as when anti aliasing techniques are applied to character rendering on a display. Anti aliasing can be used to smooth artifacts such as pixilation which may result from attempting to display a high resolution image e.g. a font character on a lower resolution display. Some forms of anti aliasing apply a type of blurring technique to reduce the appearance of pixilation to a viewer for example by manipulating the gray scale e.g. or color scale shades of pixels adjacent to an object edge.

In this embodiment for example the perceived sharpness of the edge of the glyph may be quantified by identifying an amount of edge blur such as by identifying the gray scale shade difference between adjacent pixels at an edge. As one example in an edge identified at sub pixel positions A and or C may comprise a higher perceived edge sharpness e.g. less blur than an edge identified at sub pixel position B. In this example the gray scale shade difference between the adjacent pixels at sub pixel positions A and or C is greater than the gray scale shade difference between the adjacent pixels at sub pixel position B.

Returning to determining the sub pixel position rendering quality can comprise identifying a spatial accuracy of the sub pixel position at . In one embodiment the spatial accuracy of the sub pixel position can be determined by identifying a sub pixel position shift. As one example the sub pixel position shift for the sub pixel position can be determined by identifying the number of virtual sub pixel positions the from the initial sub pixel position to the sub pixel position for which the rendering quality is being determined.

For example if the first sub pixel position e.g. initial and the second sub pixel position e.g. for which the rendering quality is being determined are a same position the sub pixel position shift can comprise zero. As another example if the number of virtual sub pixel positions the from the first sub pixel position to the second sub pixel position comprises one the sub pixel position shift for the second sub pixel position can comprise one e.g. and so on for two positions etc. . In one embodiment the rendering quality for the sub pixel position can comprise a combination of the identified edge quality e.g. perceived sharpness and the spatial accuracy e.g. distance from the initial sub pixel position . At a rendering quality for a next sub pixel position if available can be determined at .

At the spatial accuracy for the sub pixel position may be compared with a desired spatial accuracy range. If the spatial accuracy for the sub pixel position is not comprised within the desired spatial accuracy range NO at the sub pixel position may not be selected for rendering the glyph at . As one example over shifting the sub pixel position for rendering the glyph may result in undesirable viewing properties. For example if a first font character e.g. r is rendered too close to a second font character e.g. n the rendered combination may result in a merging of the characters to a viewer e.g. human viewer creating a potential for misinterpretation e.g. of the text as an m . Therefore in one embodiment the desired spatial accuracy range may comprise sub pixel position shift range e.g. two sub pixel positions from the initial sub pixel position comprising the first sub pixel position e.g. as the median of the range .

In one embodiment if the spatial accuracy for the sub pixel position is comprised within the desired spatial accuracy range YES at the identified edge quality for the sub pixel position may be compared with a desired edge quality at . In one embodiment the desired edge quality may comprise the highest edge quality of respective sub pixel positions in a set of sub pixel positions that are comprised within the desired spatial accuracy range. That is for example the rendering quality for the respective one or more identified sub pixel positions e.g. at can be determined and from the one or more identified sub pixel positions that meet the desired spatial accuracy range the sub pixel position comprising the highest edge quality can be selected for rendering the glyph.

If the sub pixel does not meet the desired edge quality NO at e.g. those not having the highest edge quality the sub pixel position is not selected for rendering the glyph at . If the sub pixel does meet the desired edge quality YES at the sub pixel position is selected for the sub pixel position shift at . The sub pixel position shift for example can be determined by identifying the number of virtual sub pixel positions from the initial e.g. first sub pixel position to the selected sub pixel position e.g. second . As one example if the first and second sub pixel positions comprise a same sub pixel position e.g. the initial sub pixel position comprises the highest edge quality the sub pixel position shift can comprise zero.

At the glyph can be rendered using the identified sub pixel position shift. As one example the identified sub pixel position shift can be applied to the glyph rendering data resulting in the glyph being rendered at a desired location on a display which may provide a desired viewing experience for a viewer e.g. text that is easier to read . As an illustrative example if the sub pixel position shift comprise negative one 1 sub pixel position the glyph may be rendered one sub pixel position to the left of the initial sub pixel position e.g. for a display comprising an X Y grid based pixel arrangement .

It will be appreciated that the sub pixel position shift is not limited to any particular image element arrangement e.g. pixel arrangement for a display . As one example a display s image elements may comprise an alternate arrangement e.g. a hexagonal arrangement where a pixel is surrounded on six sides by adjacent pixels or any other potential arrangement and the sub pixel position shift may identify a direction and a shift number e.g. five one identifying a shift of one on the fifth side .

Determining the rendering quality for a glyph can comprise identifying rendering aspects for one or more portions of the glyph at the sub pixel position. As one example a font character may comprise one or more vertical portions e.g. a vertical run one or more horizontal portions e.g. a horizontal run and or one or more curved portions. As another example a glyph may comprise one or more boundary locations where a boundary location can comprise a boundary between an interior and exterior portion of the glyph e.g. as delineated by an outline of the glyph . In one embodiment one or more rendering properties can be identified for the respective portions of the glyph that may be rendered at the sub pixel position.

At for at least a first portion of the glyph one or more rendering aspects may be determined. A brightness value aspect may be determined at a contrast value aspect may be determined at and or a typographical preference aspect may be determined at . In one embodiment a brightness value e.g. lumina value of gray scale shades may provide an aspect of the rendering quality with respect to a high low or middle value. For example a pixel comprising a mid range brightness value e.g. middle gray scale level may be less desirable e.g. than a high white or low black value as mid range brightness can result in a lower perceived sharpness of the portion of the glyph e.g. increased blur . Further other rendering quality considerations may also be considered when using a brightness value in the rendering quality. For example a fully black pixel e.g. lowest brightness value may be less desirable than a higher brightness value as fully black pixels can result in over sharpening of the portion of the glyph.

In one embodiment the contrast value may provide an evaluation of a difference between adjacent rendering elements e.g. a speed of transition between gray scale shadings in the respective pixels . As one example for 12 1 gray scale rendering a contrast value indicative of a contrast measurement in horizontal direction may evaluate a speed of transition as well as desired variation between foreground and background. For example two adjacent pixels comprising middle gray values surrounded by a uniform background may provide a less desirable contrast value than a pixel comprising a same middle gray value adjacent to a black pixel. The contrast value aspect of the rendering quality may indicate a presence of blur of the portion of the glyph for example and may also account for the blur based on context e.g. width of a glyph component and or background . As one example a particular amount of blur on a vertical edge of the glyph comprising a black line e.g. back bone may comprise a more desirable contrast value than a same vertical edge without the black line having the same amount of blur.

In one embodiment a typographic preference aspect may provide an evaluation of glyph characteristics. In one example a typographic preference may comprise one or more typographic rules that are established by a designer of the glyph which may contribute to improving perceived rendering quality. As one example a presence of vertical runs having a darker leading edge e.g. a darker left edge in case of a Latin script may indicate a particular rendering preference of the glyph. Further as another example a desired expected distance between glyph characters of a font e.g. desired spacing of text in a word such as r adjacent to n for example can provide an aspect of the rendering quality. In this embodiment for example the typographical preference may be identified from the glyph rendering data e.g. a font file .

In one embodiment a weighting factor may be applied to one or more of the respective rendering quality aspects e.g. brightness contrast and or typographical preference at . As one example a weighting factor may indicate relative importance of one of the aspects. In one embodiment a first weighting factor may be applied to the brightness value a second weighting factor may be applied to the contrast value and or a third weighting factor may be applied to the typographical preference aspect.

As one example one or more of the first second and third weighting factors may comprise a zero e.g. resulting in no weighting of the aspect . A determination of the one or more weighting factors for example may be based at least upon a type of display e.g. resolution size color screen type image element arrangement etc. scaling of the glyphs e.g. font size color of the glyphs typographic arrangement of the glyphs etc.

In one embodiment at a similarity scale may be applied to one or more of the weighted rendering quality aspects. As one example aspect values may be further weighted by other characteristics that can impact rendering of a glyph e.g. a text element . For example presence of long runs e.g. vertical and or horizontal sequences of pixels comprising a same or similar aspect value may affect rendering quality. As an example when a vertical glyph run comprises pixels having the same aspect values blur may become more noticeable than for a diagonal run that does not have a long vertical sequence of pixels with the same values. Therefore for example vertical runs of image elements e.g. pixels physical sub pixels comprising a same or similar value can be identified e.g. by calculating correlation between rows of an over scaled bitmap .

At a similarity scale can be determined for at least the portion of the glyph. As one example for respective boundary locations e.g. between a line of the glyph and an adjacent edge of the glyph a measure of vertical similarity can be determined between glyph shape at the location and one or more neighboring locations in a same run direction e.g. vertical or horizontal . In this example those runs of image elements comprising a same or similar value can be identified and an increase penalty weight may be provided that is proportional to length of the run. For example if pixels along a vertical run have a same undesired contrast value e.g. suboptimal contrast value a contrast value weighting penalty may be applied to pixels located in that particular run e.g. in an attempt to mitigate potential blur .

In one embodiment the adjusted weighted rendering quality aspects may be combined resulting in an adjusted weighted rendering quality for the selected sub pixel position for the selected portion of the glyph. At a next portion of the glyph if available may be iterated through the rendering quality determination to for example at least until the adjusted weighted rendering quality is determined for the respective one or more portions of the glyph. At the adjusted weighted rendering quality for the respective portions of the glyph can be combined resulting in a rendering quality for the glyph at the selected sub pixel position. As one example the rendering quality for the glyph at the selected sub pixel position may comprise a sum of the adjusted weighted rendering quality for the respective portions of the glyph.

As one example potential sub pixel position shifts can be limited e.g. the range can be defined based on a potential of rendering quality improvement for the current glyph. For example if the rendering quality of a glyph does not vary enough between different sub pixel positions it might be preferable to mitigate one or more of the potential shifts because shifting the glyph may not result in significant improvement of rendering quality while compromising spatial accuracy.

As another example the desired sub pixel position shift range may be based on expected amount of space to an adjacent glyph e.g. as provided by a typographic preference . For example as described above when glyphs are rendered too close to one other a viewer may perceive the glyphs as merged. Thus even where a potential sub pixel position shift may comprise a desired rendering quality e.g. highest the shift may be denied e.g. not be included within range if the shift may result in the glyph being perceived as merged with a neighboring glyph e.g. a very crisp non blurry r may nevertheless blend with an adjacent n to undesirably appear as an m . Further any typographic characteristics of a set of characters e.g. a font may be considered when evaluating constraints for the potential sub pixel position shifts and determining the desired sub pixel position shift range .

At in the example embodiment a first sub pixel position from the one or more sub pixel positions respectively comprising a rendering quality can be compared with the desired sub pixel position shift range . If the first sub pixel position is not comprised in the desired sub pixel position shift range NO at the first sub pixel position may not be selected for rendering the glyph at .

If the first sub pixel position is comprised in the desired sub pixel position shift range YES at the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position may be compared with the desired rendering quality difference threshold at . If the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position does not meet the desired rendering quality difference threshold NO at the first sub pixel position may not be selected for rendering the glyph at .

As one example if a rendering quality improvement between the rendering quality of the initial sub pixel position and the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position doesn t meet a desired threshold of improvement the shift may not be applied. Further in one embodiment the desired rendering quality difference threshold may also comprise a limit for over sharpening of a glyph. As one example if a difference between the rendering quality of the initial sub pixel position and the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position exceeds the desired rendering quality difference threshold e.g. comprising a low threshold and a high threshold the resulting glyph rendering may be over sharp. Therefore in this example the first sub pixel position may not be selected for rendering the glyph.

If the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position meets the desired rendering quality difference threshold YES at the rendering quality first sub pixel position may be compared with a desired rendering quality for the glyph. As one example as described above the desired rendering quality for the glyph may comprise a highest rendering quality from a set of one or more sub pixel positions e.g. comprising a second sub pixel position a third sub pixel position and or a fourth sub pixel position and so on e.g. so that merely the best sub pixel position is chosen for the parameters provided .

If the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position does not meet the desired rendering quality for the glyph NO at the first sub pixel position may not be selected for rendering the glyph at e.g. and one of the other sub pixel positions in the set may be selected if it meets the desired rendering quality for the glyph . If the rendering quality of the first sub pixel position meets the desired rendering quality for the glyph YES at the first sub pixel position may be selected for a sub pixel position shift at . As one example the sub pixel position shift can be determined by identifying a number of sub pixel positions between the initial sub pixel position and the first sub pixel position.

At the glyph can be rendered using the identified sub pixel position shift. As one example the sub pixel position shift may be used to adjust a position of the glyph from the initial sub pixel position when the glyph is rendered such as on a display. In this way for example the resulting rendered glyph may comprise a desired view on the display which incorporates at least desired typographical preferences for the glyph e.g. font preferences .

In one aspect rendering quality of a set of glyphs e.g. characters of a font may be improved by storing desired sub pixel position shifts for the set. As one example a set of sub pixel position shifts corresponding to a set of glyphs which provide a desired e.g. best view of the set of glyphs can be stored for a particular font e.g. or display type that may be rendering the font and later used when the set is subsequently rendered. In one embodiment a sub pixel position shift that is selected for the glyph can be stored e.g. locally on a client machine and or remotely on a storage server . Further in one embodiment a provision for editing of the sub pixel position shift for the glyph for example can be made available to a user such that the user may update the shift according to their preferences e.g. where such an update may also be stored locally or remotely for subsequent use . Additionally in one embodiment the stored sub pixel position shift e.g. edited or unedited can be used to render the glyph e.g. subsequently on the display .

In this aspect for example desired sub pixel shifts may be stored e.g. as a part of a font file or as part of cache rather than being re calculated at run time. As one example storing one or more desired sub pixel shifts can be memory efficient even if the shifts are stored in a cache. In this example a glyph may utilize a same over scaled bitmap and in this case all that may need to be stored is one shift per sub pixel position. Further as an example storing one or more desired sub pixel shifts for a set of glyphs may allow for more complex e.g. and more time consuming evaluations of various typographic characteristics and or characteristics of global nature to be performed at rendering. Additionally as one example if the shifts are stored in a file e.g. font file a user e.g. type designer may be able to perform simple editing which may provide a way to extend hinting to handle sub pixel positioned text.

A system may be devised that can mitigate loss of quality experienced by typical glyph rendering techniques. Instead the glyph may be rendered in a desired view for example that may reduce over blurring of a character. A typical glyph can comprise an initial rendering position for a particular display comprising a sub pixel position. One or more alternate sub pixel positions can be identified for rendering the glyph from which one may be selected to render the glyph. The selected sub pixel position can be chosen by identifying a rendering quality of the glyph at the one or more alternate sub pixel positions and the initial position and selecting the sub pixel position that provides the desired view of the glyph. The glyph may then be rendered using the selected sub pixel position for example.

In the exemplary system a shift application component is configured to apply the selected sub pixel position shift to the glyph at rendering time. As one example the shift application component can apply the selected sub pixel position shift to the initial sub pixel position for the glyph resulting in a rendered glyph at the second sub pixel position. In this way for example the resulting rendered glyph may comprise a desired view based on selecting the sub pixel position shift that comprises a desired rendering quality.

In the example embodiment a glyph rendering quality determination component can be configured to determine the rendering quality for the glyph at a second sub pixel position and or a rendering quality of the glyph at the first sub pixel position using glyph aspect data typographical preferences for the glyph potential sub pixel position shift s for the glyph the glyph itself and the first sub pixel position for the glyph. The glyph rendering quality determination component may determine one or more glyph rendering qualities based on a brightness of a first portion of the glyph where the brightness may comprise a lumina value. Further the glyph rendering quality determination component may determine one or more glyph rendering qualities based on a contrast of the first portion of the glyph where the contrast may comprise a brightness difference between a first element of the first portion of the glyph and a second element of the first portion of the glyph.

Additionally the glyph rendering quality determination component may determine one or more glyph rendering qualities based on a typographic preference for the glyph. In one embodiment the typographic preference can comprise a characteristic of a shape of the glyph e.g. straight vertical and or horizontal lines and or curves etc. which may affect how the glyph is rendered. In one embodiment the typographic preference can comprise a font spacing for the glyph for example comprising a distance between characters of a font. In one embodiment the typographic preference can comprise a desired preference for rendering one or more runs of the glyph such as where a glyph may comprise two or more vertical stems e.g. n or m .

In one embodiment the glyph rendering quality determination component may determine one or more glyph rendering qualities based on an edge quality for the first portion of the glyph. For example an edge quality may comprise a desired sharpness of an edge of a glyph where the edge is not over blurred and or not over sharp such as to provide a desired viewing experience to a user. In one embodiment the glyph rendering quality determination component may determine one or more glyph rendering qualities based on a spatial accuracy of the first portion of the glyph. For example over shifting the sub pixel position for rendering a glyph may result in merging of two adjacent glyphs and or undesirable spacing between glyphs.

In one embodiment the glyph rendering quality determination component may determine one or more glyph rendering qualities based on a similarity scale. As one example the similarity scale can comprise a measure of run similarity between the first portion and a second portion of the glyph. As an illustrative example illustrates an example embodiment of a glyph where a similarity scale may be applied. In this example embodiment a first side of the glyph e.g. capital letter I comprises a first A second B and third C vertical run respectively comprising a similar horizontal arrangement of pixels along corresponding borders A B C. That is for example respective borders A B C comprise a white shade to the left a gray shade in the middle and a black shade to the right. In one embodiment the glyph rendering quality determination component may determine that the second vertical run B may comprise a less desired arrangement for example because the same horizontal arrangement of pixels e.g. white gray black for the second vertical run B spans along a longer vertical border than in the first A and third C vertical runs. That is because the white gray black arrangement may make the relatively thin second vertical run B appear blurry and because so much of the I is comprised by this run the second vertical run B may be regarded as a less desired arrangement e.g. relative to the first and second shorter vertical runs A and C for which the white gray black arrangement may be more acceptable . In one example a weighting penalty may thus be applied to the e.g. pixels of the second vertical run B.

The example embodiment comprises a shift range determination component which can be configured to identify a shift range for the glyph. As one example the shift range for the glyph can comprise a range of potential sub pixel shifts e.g. a number of sub pixel positions from the initial sub pixel position from which a sub pixel position may be selected for rendering the glyph e.g. as a threshold range . In one embodiment the position shift selection component can be configured to select the sub pixel position shift for the glyph if the sub pixel position shift is comprised in the shift range.

The example embodiment comprises a selected sub pixel position shift storage component which can be configured to store the selected sub pixel position shift for the glyph where the stored sub pixel position shift can be used for subsequent renderings of the glyph . That is for example a first sub pixel position shift e.g. which may comprise zero indicative of the initial sub pixel position may be selected for a first glyph a second sub pixel position shift may be selected for a second glyph and or a third sub pixel position shift may be selected for a third glyph e.g. and so on for a fourth fifth etc. and the set of selected sub pixel positions shifts can be stored e.g. locally and or remotely for the set of corresponding glyphs. In this example when the one or more of the glyphs from the set are subsequently rendered the stored set of sub pixel positions shifts may be used to render the glyphs at the desired sub pixel positions.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Further at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

