---

title: Target detector with size detection and method thereof
abstract: A method and system for detecting targets comprising at least one first receiver for receiving radiation, the radiation comprises beams of radiation spaced horizontally; at least one second receiver for receiving radiation, the radiation comprises beams of radiation spaced horizontally and vertically such that the beams of radiation received by the second receiver travel through different predetermined heights from the horizontal plane; at least one processor for receiving data from the first and second receivers, the at least one receiver operating to locate a target passing in the vicinity of the first and second receivers and determine the height of the target based upon the recordation of certain of the beams at a predetermined heights relative to the horizontal plane and the width of a target based upon the horizontal spacing of the beams.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08829439&OS=08829439&RS=08829439
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08829439
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121016
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The present invention is directed target detection and detection of specific types of targets. Generally when sensing a specific type of target it is desirous to avoid the sensing of false alarms.

Generally speaking it is advantageous to avoid false alarms generated in response to animals and the like when one desires to detect intruders to one s property or across a boundary. Although motion sensors are useful in sensing the motion of an animal or human discrimination between the two is generally left to visual recognition.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to a system for detecting targets comprising at least one first receiver for receiving radiation the radiation comprises beams of radiation spaced horizontally at least one second receiver for receiving radiation the radiation comprises beams of radiation spaced horizontally and vertically such that the beams of radiation received by the second receiver travel through different predetermined heights from the horizontal plane at least one processor for receiving data from the first and second receivers the at least one receiver operating to locate a target passing in the vicinity of the first and second receivers and determine the height of the target based upon the recordation of certain of the beams at a predetermined heights relative to the horizontal plane and the width of a target based upon the horizontal spacing of the beams.

A preferred embodiment comprises a system for detecting and discriminating targets comprising at least one first receiver for receiving radiation above ground level spread in a horizontal and vertical direction at least one second receiver for receiving radiation above ground level spread in a horizontal and vertical direction substantially at different heights than the at least one receiver such that the radiation received by the second receiver travels through a plane perpendicular to the ground level at heights differing from the radiation received by at least one first receiver at least one processor for receiving data from the first and second receivers the at least one receiver operating to locate a target passing in the vicinity of the first and second receivers and determine the height of the target based upon the passage of the radiation at a calculated height relative to a perpendicular plane in which the target is determined to be located and the width of a target based upon the width of the passage of radiation relative to a perpendicular plane in which the target is determined to be located. Optionally the at least one of the at least one first and second receivers may comprise a series of receivers positioned at predetermined different heights relative to the ground and further comprise at least one first transmitter and at least one second transmitter for transmitting radiation to the at least one first and second receivers respectively. Optionally the series of receivers may be positioned at predetermined heights within the height range of animals that frequent the area of interest and above the height range of animals that frequent the area but within the height range of humans the system using the information obtained by the receivers positioned at different heights to distinguish between the detection of an animal or human. Optionally the radiation may be infrared and the first and second receivers may comprise first and second Fresnel lenses operatively associated with the at least one first and second receivers the beams of radiation received by the Fresnel lens being received into a plurality of channels within the first and second receivers the beams of radiation received into channels of the second receiver originating at predetermined varying heights relative to the ground so that based upon the detection of radiation within the channels the height and width of the target may be determined. The at least one second receiver may receive beams spread horizontally and vertically at different heights such that as determined by the intersection of the beams with a plane perpendicular to the ground level and perpendicular to the direction of travel the beams form an angle in the range of approximately 5 to 30 to the horizontal plane. Optionally the beams of radiation received by the at least one first and second receivers may comprise sub beams having positive and negative polarity the positive and negative polarity of the sub beams resulting in voltages generated by the at least one first and second receivers are proportional to the distance to the target and whereupon based on the voltages in conjunction with predetermined set of calibration values the range of the target is estimated by the at least one processor and based upon data received from the at least one first and second receivers the approximate height and width of the target is computed.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more folly with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present it will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative term s are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted is the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

The present invention provides an instrument that is capable of detecting people and animals and discriminating between the two species. A preferred embodiment utilizes two motion detectors which are commercially available in conjunction with Fresnel lens arrays one is installed such that the Fresnel array pattern is horizontal to the ground and the other motion detector installed on top of the First one such that the Fresnel array pattern is at an angle of 5 30 to the horizontal plane. Note that the use of motion detectors is described for the purposes of example only and the present invention is not limited to the use of motion detectors. The preferred embodiment comprises a computer or processor system such as a laptop that can capture the data from both the sensors and perform processing steps to determine whether the target is a human being or an animal. A flow chart for the processing steps is illustrated at and the details of each step involved in determining whether it is an animal or a human are elaborated. However the principles of the present invention are not limited to the processing steps of and other algorithms may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.

A preferred embodiment provides an estimate of the width and height of a target using two pyroelectric sensors. Based on the width and height one can determine whether the target is art animal or a human being with substantial accuracy. show two sets of parallel beams constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention one set being arranged horizontally and the second set being arranged at a slant angle so that the upper beam is at a height of 2 m from the ground or base level. In this example the spacing between each beam is approximately 15 cm. Assuming that at one end of each beam there is a transmitter and at the other end there is a receiver as depicted in if an animal depicted as a dog walks across the beams of the animal intercepts n number of horizontal beams which can be observed by the lack of signal at n number of receivers. The separation between n number of beams provide the width length of the target. As the animal moves it intercepts the slant beams also. The highest beam it intersects gives the height of the target. Accordingly one can estimate the height and width length of the target. For example a person has a height of 5 9 and a width of 1 4 . Similarly horse may be 7 long and 0.6 tall. Based on these dimensions through beam intersection one can determine the target type or with more accuracy whether or not it is a person.

Generation of parallel beams requires the transmitters to be spaced apart and the receivers to detect the signal require the sensors to be spaced accordingly. Instead of parallel beams one can use a fen shaped beams as shown in . Instead of using both transmitters and receivers a receiver is utilized which receives emissions from the target. For practical reasons two pyroelectric passive infrared PIR sensors are utilized one for horizontal fan shaped beam pattern to generate the horizontal beams and another PIR sensor to generate the slant shaped beam patterns.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes two pyroelectric passive infrared PIR motion detection sensors. One of the sensors is shown in with a Fresnel lens in front of it shows one of the PIR sensors in a protective package. The circuit diagram used with the sensor elements to observe the voltage generated by the pyroelectric sensing elements provided by one of the vendors is shown in . The pyroelectric sensing elements are connected back to back as shown in . Connecting the sensors A back to back results in output that is proportional to the difference between the two sensors. Hence in effect it cancels the variations due to atmospheric temperature changes. These elements are marked as positive and negative as shown in wherein the positive terminal of sensor is connected to the positive terminal of sensor A. comprises a resistor FET transistor comprising source and drain terminals which connect to terminals S and D respectively resistor and capacitor . Other circuitry and or circuitry elements may be utilized without departing from the scope of the present invention. The detectors A used in conjunction with the preferred embodiments may include Fresnel lenses commonly used in conjunction with COTS commercial off the self units. A Fresnel lens can be thought of as regular convex lenses but one that has been collapsed on itself to form a thinner lighter flat lens one that still retains the optical characteristics of the larger convex lens as depicted in the upper right portion of . The key advantage is that the segments of the Fresnel lens separate incoming light into distinct channels and these ultimately gather at the pyroelectric sensor elements in a manner analogous to wooden slats of a simple hand fan . The objective is to gather incoming light from each of the channels that provide distinct information about the target or object . Many different Fresnel lenses are available on the market. The Fresnel lens shown in divides incoming light into five double channels C C C C C C C C C C with one sub channel e.g. C corresponding to the positive element and the other e.g. C corresponding to the negative element. Other lenses and or number of channels may be utilized as is readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The different Fresnel lens arrays that can be utilized in conjunction with a preferred embodiment of the present invention are available from commercial sources. diagrammatically illustrates a Fresnel lens array that is used in conjunction with a preferred embodiment of this invention comprising 10 subchannels labeled C C. However other Fresnel lens arrays can be used with minor or no modification in the human and animal discrimination algorithm. The Fresnel lens array shows five double beams each separated by approximately 20 . As depicted schematically in each beam pattern has two sub beams e.g. C and C one sub beam corresponding to the positive element another sub beam corresponding to the negative element as depicted in . is a diagrammatic illustration of the positioning of a sensor at a height of one meter. However the sensor may be positioned at a variety of levels and or positions without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Human and or animal body is a source of thermal radiation. The blackbody radiation pattern of a person at a temperature 37 C. is shown in . Maximum radiation from a human body occurs around 9500 ran wavelength. Similar radiation patterns can be observed for animals. The pyroelectric sensors are optimized to detect the radiation from 8000 to 14000 nm. When a heat source source such as a human or an animal moves across the beam patterns as shown in an output voltage is generated. When the heat source moves into the positive element of the sensor a positive voltage is generated at the output of the sensor. Similarly a negative voltage is generated when the heat source moves across the negative element of the sensor as shown in .

A preferred embodiment of the present invention involves use of two pyroelectric passive infrared sensors one above the other sensor as shown in . The beam patterns of both the sensors are shown in . From the front view the beam pattern of the sensor at the bottom is horizontal to the ground and the beam pattern of the top sensor is at a slope. As a result the height at which the beams occur increases from one side to the other as shown in . Discrimination of humans and animals is done by estimating the width length and height of each target namely humans and animals. The bottom sensor is used to estimate the width or length of the target and the top sensor is used to estimate the height of the target.

From the bottom sensor output one can easily estimate the direction of motion of the target. Since each beam pattern is assigned positive and negative signs as shown in depending on whether positive signal appears first followed by a negative signal or vice versa the direction of motion can be ascertained. If the sensor is installed such that the beam patterns are . . . from right to left with respect to the sensor then a positive signal followed by a negative signal implies the target is moving from right to left. Similarly a negative signal followed by a positive signal implies the target is moving from left to right with respect to the sensor. The same information can be ascertained using the top sensor s output as long as the sensor is able to receive the radiation from the target. Another way to determine the direction of motion of the target is to stagger misalign the beam patterns of bottom and top PIR sensors as shown in . When a target walks from left to right first signals appear on die bottom sensor and then on the top sensor since the target intercepts the beam pattern of the bottom sensor first and then the beam pattern of the top sensor. Similarly if the target moves from right to left then the signals appear first on the top sensor and then on the bottom sensor. shows the signals captured from bottom and the top sensor when a person walked across the sensor beams patterns left to right and right to left.

The Fresnel Array beam pattern has a fan shape as shown in . In the case of two detectors A due to the fan shape as depicted in for example the separation between one beam to other varies with distance as depicted schematically in . Hence to estimate the length width of the target it is necessary to know where the target is crossing the beam pattern. Similarly the height of the beam patterns of the top PIR sensor varies with distance and one needs to know the range of the target to estimate the height see e.g. eight feet high location shown in . Hence in order to estimate the height and length width estimation of the target one should first estimate the distance of the target from the PIR sensor or A. The PIR sensor outputs a voltage proportional to the radiation it receives. The radiation impinging on the sensor or A is inversely proportional to the square of the distance and hence the output voltage of the PIR sensor or A is given by equation 1

Assuming that the first sensor bottom sensor A with horizontal beam pattern is placed at a height of 1 foot from the ground instead of 1 m as depicted in . This means ail the targets with height less than 1 foot will not be detected by the bottom sensor since the Fresnel lens array used is a small animal alley lens. However by lowering the height of the sensor one can detect the targets with height less than 1 foot using the bottom sensor. Consider the beam pattern of the top sensor. It is at a slope or angle to the horizon. As shown in the beam pattern that is closest to the ground is at 1 foot. The beam pattern S to S that is at angle to the horizontal or ground as shown in so that the farthest beam S is at a height of feet at a predetermined distance. The intermediate beam patterns e.g. S S are at different heights and can be easily calculated using the slope of the top sensor with horizontal plane and knowing the separation between the beam patterns of the top sensor. Assume that a target is walking from right to left. As the target walks across the beam patterns a signal is generated at the output of each sensor. Top sensor s output is shown in as time versus amplitude. also shows the target intersecting a beam pattern that is at the same height as the target. Hence approximate height of the target can be estimated based on the highest beam pattern of the top sensor the target intersects.

In general these sensors are deployed such that they are looking across a pathway that is the central beam pattern is at 90 to the pathway. However if the target deviates from the path and approaches the sensor at an angle as shown in the height of the target can be estimated using both the sensors outputs. The bottom sensor gives the direction of the target.

Now the length or width of the target will be determined. Typical waveforms observed when a person or an animal walking across the beam patterns of a PIR sensor are shown in . Two approaches are used to estimate the length width of the target. If the target is crossing the beam at a close distance we use one approach. When it is crossing the beams at a distance we use the second approach. shows the width of the beam.

Since the target length width is greater than the width of the beam the target touches two beams simultaneously as shown in . This happens when the target distance to the sensor is small and hence the beam widths are small. When this happens the waveform generated by the sensor changes its slope midway as shown in that is if the waveform is decreasing from a positive peak it starts increasing in the midstream. The change is also seen in the actual data collected for a horse in . When the slope change happens the length width of the target is at least the total width of beams or of the two adjacent zones. Since the range is known as described earlier the beam widths can be found from the Table 2. If the beam number is not known average beam width at the range can be used to estimate the length width of the target. Often length width of the target is enough to decide whether the target is human or not. If length width is not enough to determine whether the target is human or not the height information can be used.

This is the case when the target is farther away from the sensor. shows one positive and associated negative beams of Fresnel array and a moving target that moves across the beams from left to right. As the target moves a waveform is generated at the output of the PIR sensor as shown in . During the periods t and t the target is in touch with the positive beam and hence a positive signal is being generated at the output of the sensor. Actual shape of the signal depends on the gain settings used for the output. Whatever is the shape of the signal it will be positive. During the time periods t and t the target is not in any beam and hence the signal discharges. Similarly during the time periods t and t when the target is touching the negative beam a negative signal appears. If we assume the speed at which the target is moving as v then the distance it covered during the time period t tis 2 2 where Bis the width of the positive beam where the target is crossing and W is the length width of the target. The beam width Bw is known hence if one knows the velocity at which the target is moving the length width of the target can be estimated from equation 2. In order to estimate the velocity v we refer to . The signal from the bottom PIR sensor starts raising as soon as the target touches its positive beam. Similarly the signal for the top PIR sensor starts raising as soon as the target touches its positive beam as shown in . The distance Dbetween the two corresponding positive beams of the top and bottom PIR sensors can be determined from geometric principles. The time it takes the target to travel the distance Dis t t where tand tare the times when the signals starts rising from quiescent state for the bottom and top PIR sensors respectively as shown in . Hence the speed at which the target is traveling can be estimated by

In order to determine whether the target is human or an animal a preferred embodiment comprises an algorithm comprising the steps given below. These steps are also shown as a flow chart in .

If the length width is between 1 to 1.5 ft and height is about 5 feet declare the target as human else declare it as animal.

As used herein the terminology target means a person or persons or portion thereof animal or animals thing object vehicle or a combination thereof.

As used herein the terminology point of interest or points of interest refer to an area or region in which there appears to be a target or could potentially have a target but may or may not be a target or contain a target e.g. potentially the point of interest may be an area or region containing an animal or human.

As used herein the terminology area of interest or region of interest refer to an area or region in which the monitoring is to take place. For example potentially the area or region of interest may be an area or region containing an animal or human.

As used herein the terminology processor includes computer controller CPU microprocessor multiprocessor minicomputer main frame personal computer PC coprocessor and combinations thereof or any machine similar to a computer or processor which is capable of processing algorithms.

As used herein the terminology beam pattern means the shape of an incoming or outgoing array of channels of radiation inputted into for example a Fresnel lens. The beam pattern need not be formed from distinct subchannels or channels as the beam pattern may be one contiguous beam which is divided into channels by the receiving means.

As used herein the terminology the terminology process means an algorithm software subroutine computer program or methodology.

As used herein the terminology target signature means the characteristic pattern of a target displayed by detection and identification equipment.

As used herein the terminology algorithm means sequence of steps using computer software process software subroutine computer program or methodology.

As used herein the terminology predetermined different heights means with respect to receivers and or transmitters at heights measured from ground or base level which differ from one another including an incremental difference or a predetermined random difference in height. In the case where a series of receivers are positioned at predetermined different heights all of the first receivers or all of the second receivers need not be at different heights.

As used herein the terminology Fresnel lens or Fresnel Array means a type of lens that allows the construction of lenses of large aperture and short focal length without the mass and volume of material that would be required by a lens of conventional design. The Fresnel lens may be divided into a set of concentric annular or shaped sections known as Fresnel zones. See Wikipedia in this regard. These Fresnel zones form what is referred to as an array or channels herein. Each zone may comprise a separate prism. The Fresnel lens may be single piece of glass or many small pieces. The Fresnel lens may be effectively divide the continuous surface of a standard lens into a set of surfaces of the same curvature with stepwise discontinuities between them forming the zones or channels. One type of Fresnel lens can be regarded as an array of prisms arranged in a circular fashion with steeper prisms on the edges and a nearly flat convex center.

As used herein the terminology horizontal plane includes the ground level or a base positioned substantially parallel to the ground.

As used herein the terminology predetermined set of calibration values may comprise a table of calibration values such as that depicted in but is not limited to such a table.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

