---

title: Systems and methods for touch-based two-stage text input
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for touch-based two-stage text input. An electronic device (), such as a wearable wireless device, can be configured with a two-stage input interface () on a display (). A first stage can include a seek area (), which displays a subset of letters or other symbols to represent the full range of symbolic elements that are available, in a compressed form. The user can identify an intended target range () by touching an area at or around the letter or other symbol of interest. That input triggers the display of a second stage of the interface in a separate selection area (), in which all letters or other symbols in the target range are expanded and displayed. The user can then touch and lift off the letter or other symbol they wish to choose, for example, to insert in a message or application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256366&OS=09256366&RS=09256366
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09256366
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120814
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for touch based text input for electronic devices. The text may include alphanumeric characters punctuation mathematical indication font elements and icons e.g. emoticons and other small graphical images .

In the field of portable communication services manufacturers have built ever more capable wireless devices into increasingly compact form factors. Some wireless devices include a liquid crystal display LCD touch screen or other interactive display devices that occupy a comparatively small area. For example the MOTOACTV fitness tracker has a touch screen size of 1.6 inches 40.64 mm with a resolution of 176 220 pixels. One of the challenges in bringing a high function small screen electronic device such as a watch or other wearable electronic device to market is the fact that the limited screen area makes it difficult to display a full range of typed characters or other symbolic information in the available touch screen space.

Instead of using a touch screen some devices use up down buttons to scroll through an alphabet and select characters for text entry. When a desired letter is displayed an enter button can be used to select that letter. Of course a touch screen can be used to implement virtual scroll and select buttons in a similar fashion. This type of text entry mechanism however may be cumbersome and frustrating to the user because it can potentially require very long scrolling actions to arrive at a letter or other symbol the user wishes to enter into a messaging dialing or other program.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for touch based two stage text input. These ideas were originally developed for a compact mobile electronic device having a touch screen size of 1.6 inches 40.64 mm with a resolution of 176 220 pixels but these ideas can be implemented in electronic devices of other sizes including those with both larger and smaller touch screens. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for a two stage interface for receiving user input on a touch screen device in which the user can be presented with a seek bar or area which represents the entire range of letters characters numbers and or other symbolic information in a compressed format.

For example in a seek bar that presents the entire range of the letters of the English alphabet the seek bar may present every other letter for a total of 13 displayed letters or can present other subsets of the full range of available letters. The user can touch the display at a first point in the seek bar near the area of a letter the user desires to select and enter such as for example at or near the letter m in the seek bar. In some implementations a selection bar or area as a second graphical interface element can then be generated and or updated based on the user s touch at the first point. The selection bar is configured to display the letters surrounding the first point touched on the seek bar. Thus in the case of the user touching a first point at or near the letter m on the seek bar the selection bar or area can present the user with the individual letters k l m n o or shorter or longer sets of the letters surrounding the letter m in the alphabet assuming a linear representation of the alphabet . The user can then slide the finger from the first point to touch a second point for example the letter n displayed in the selection bar if that is the letter the user wishes to select as input. Upon lifting off that second point and or by other user actions the selected letter n can then be inputted to a text editing box or other dialogue.

The user can then repeat the process of targeting a range for and then selecting individual letters or other symbolic elements until the user completes a desired input string. The user can select or activate a done button or other control when the message is composed or completed to send the text string to an application and or other software or service such as a messaging or dialing application. In various aspects the activity of entering text character numeric and or other types of symbolic information can be facilitated for a user operating an electronic device having a comparatively small touch screen including those that do not easily support the display of full or unabbreviated character sets in the available screen area and selection of one character from the full character set in a single stage manner.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present teachings which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Where possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

The electronic device can have a small form factor such as a watch style device an arm band device a belt style device or a head set device. As shown the electronic device can host or incorporate a number of hardware software and or other resources including a display and an operating system .

The display can be or include a light emitting diode LED or liquid crystal display LCD and or displays having other types of panels or illumination elements. In some implementations the display can incorporate hardware based input components such as for example a capacitive or resistive touch sensitive panel allowing the user to enter data based on touch points or other actions on the screen. As noted the electronic device can be configured in a comparatively small form factor but the touch screen or display screen may be larger for low vision applications or other use cases. It may be noted that the electronic device can incorporate other input and output devices such as for example audio output via a speaker and or audio input via a microphone and or control input via mechanical buttons or switches.

As shown the electronic device can host or incorporate further hardware software and or other services or resources to provide an overall framework for operating the electronic device and conducting input communications and or other activity. The resources of the electronic device can include for example an operating system installed on the electronic device and controlling the data storage processing communications and or other resources of the electronic device and or accessed via the electronic device . As shown the electronic device can host a set of applications running under the operating system . The set of applications can be or include one or more applications and or other software services and or routines such as telephony applications messaging applications including texting instant messaging and or email applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications social networking applications digital audio video player applications and or others.

The set of applications can access any one or more of a set of system resources hosted by or incorporated in the electronic device via an application programming interface API and or other interface channel bus and or connection. The set of system resources can include various hardware software and or other services logic or resources such as electronic memory local storage such as disk based optical and or electronic storage communications resources such as ports transmission hardware and or a set of antennas to permit wireless network operations such as connection to the Internet and or other public or private networks such as by cellular telephone wireless data packets WiFi connections or sessions and or others.

The set of antennas can be or include a single antenna or a set of multiple antennas for diversity and or other purposes. The set of antennas can be mounted externally to the electronic device as shown and or can be mounted internally to the electronic device and or can be mounted in other configurations. The set of system resources can include an interface manager which can be a set of routines logic services and or other resources executing and or supporting the processing of input to and or output from the electronic device including a two stage text input interface generated and presented on the display . According to some implementations the interface manager and or associated logic can be implemented as a self running system application service and or other resource that handles text input and editing operations and or operations on other symbolic elements.

In some implementations the interface manager may not report every entered letter or other symbolic element back to the calling application upon completion of the entry of each individual symbolic element. Instead the interface manager may only report a completed string after a user indicates that the complete string has been entered by touching a done virtual button on the touch screen. The two stage text input interface can incorporate a number of dialogues selection buttons or boxes and or other interface features to permit the user of device to enter textual and or other symbolic information into the electronic device despite a comparatively limited viewing area on display . While the done virtual button is illustrated as a virtual button in implementations that button and any other of the buttons keys or switches may be mechanical or virtual.

As shown the two stage text input interface can include a view and or display area on the display with a selection component such as a capacitive or resistive touch panel in which the user of electronic device can input various data and perform other operations. In various aspects the user can operate the two stage text input interface to access a seek area from which the user can access or enter a selection area to view and enter elements from a set of symbolic elements shown e.g. in . The seek area can be configured in a linear or bar format in a two dimensional format and or in other formats or arrangements. The set of symbolic elements can include any type of symbolic data characters and or elements such as for example an alphabet in English and or other languages a set of numbers and or other numeric information a set of symbols such as for example commas periods parenthesis and or other typing or grammatical symbols mathematical symbols icons or other graphical information keyboard or telephone keypad symbols and or other characters data or information.

In certain implementations the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information is too long and or occupies too much screen area to fit into the seek area of the display while in other implementations the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information may be represented in full form on the display . The set of symbolic elements can be displayed in abbreviated format by for example showing only every Nth letter of the set where N 2 or by showing only representative elements of the set e.g. one happy face for a range of positive expression icons and one sad face for a range of negative expression icons .

As shown the two stage text input interface can include a set of controls to operate the two stage text input interface and to select various input processing or other actions such as to select navigate underline and or delete letters or other symbolic information among others according to platforms and techniques described herein. The set of controls shown include a number of virtual buttons with icons to activate various controls or actions. Of course the controls could be implemented as mechanical buttons voice control instructions gesture based motions of the electronic device e.g. as supported by a gyroscope or accelerometer or a combination of virtual button mechanical button voice control or motion based inputs.

For example the set of controls includes a selection virtual button that can be activated to switch between different sets of symbolic elements such as letter sets character sets symbol sets icon sets and or others. An upper lower case or shift virtual button can be activated to switch between lowercase and uppercase formats for the symbolic elements. A space virtual button can be activated to insert a blank space in the text editing box and or other dialogue entry area. A delete virtual button can be activated to delete or remove a selected symbolic element or elements from the text editing box and or other dialogue entry area. It will again be appreciated that while four specific virtual buttons are shown in the illustrated set of controls other amounts types layouts and configurations of buttons switches keys and or other icons or controls can be used including mechanical versions of those elements.

During operation the two stage text input interface can generate and or display the seek area to present a comparatively compact abbreviated filtered truncated and or otherwise reduced representation of the set of symbolic elements. For example the seek area can display a set of sampled letters taken from the complete English alphabet such as a . . . e . . . l . . . n . . . r . . . v . . . z as shown although it will be appreciated that other selections or samplings of letters or other symbolic elements can be used. In some implementations the reduced and or otherwise modified representation of the full set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information shown in the seek area can be regularly separated sampled and or spaced within the ordinal or ordered list or arrangement of the set of symbolic elements . Thus the reduced and or modified representation of the set of symbolic elements can present every other symbolic element every third symbolic element every sixth symbolic element and or other ordered arrangements which are spaced apart using other spacing or sampling rules or techniques. As further examples the reduced representation of the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information can be generated using irregular and or variable spacing ordering or separation between the symbolic elements of the set of symbolic elements . The reduced or modified representation of the full set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information presented in the seek area can permit the user to view a depiction of the entire range of the set of symbolic elements available for selection without necessarily showing every element in the set of symbolic elements .

According to various implementations and as shown in the user can view the reduced or modified representation of the set of symbolic elements in the seek area and touch a first point on a surface of the display on or around a desired letter or other element to cause a target range of the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information to appear in the selection area . The target range is a selection or subset from the full set of symbolic elements so that for example as shown two letters adjacent to both sides of the letter g selected in the seek bar can be displayed. Other ranges of symbols surrounding a selected symbol can be used. For example if representative happy sad and neutral emoticons were displayed in the seek area touching the happy emoticon may result in a target range of five different types of happy emoticons to be displayed in the selection area .

The target range is a subset of the entire set of symbols available for text entry. In some implementations the selection area can likewise be configured in a linear or bar format in a two dimensional or matrix format and or in other formats or arrangements. The selection area can include touch screen input elements so that the user can touch a first point on the seek bar view in the selection area the target range symbols related to the first touch point then drag and or otherwise reposition the finger or a pointing instrument on one element in the target range on the selection bar that the user wishes to select.

For example as shown in after the user has identified and or selected the letter and or other symbol the user wishes to input the selected letter or other symbolic elements can appear in a text editing box and or other dialogue of the two stage character input interface . The text editing box can in various implementations be configured to display a done virtual button and or a cancel virtual button as shown as well as other buttons and associated operations. Of course the virtual buttons may be replaced by mechanical buttons that perform the same functions. The done virtual button can allow the user to indicate the completion of a textual string and or other input and for example initiate the transmission of a message contained in the text editing box to a messaging application in the set of applications dial a telephone number indicated by a string contained in the text editing box search for a song title with a phrase indicated by a string contained in the text editing box or to perform other actions. The cancel virtual button can allow the user to cancel and back out of the entry of a textual string and or other input for example to start another message or to take other actions.

The input operation of selecting a character e.g. letter number symbol icon etc. by touching a first touch point in the seek area followed by touching a second touch point in the selection area can be accomplished using one continuous and or uninterrupted motion by the user who may touch and drag a finger and or pointing instrument from a first touch point on the touch screen display to a second touch point on the touch screen display without lifting the finger or instrument off the surface of display . Alternately the two touches may be separate with a lifting of the finger off the surface of the display between the two touches.

Additionally the first touch point may be a sequence of touch points within the seek area with the final touch point operating to determine the target range available for selection in the selection area . For example the user touches a first point in the seek area with a finger or pointing instrument and moves the finger continuously along the seek area to cause continuous updating of the target range shown in the selection area . If the target range is updated in a smooth continuous manner the letters and or other symbolic elements displayed in the target area may seem to scroll left right and or otherwise following the moving touch point on the seek area in a real time or near real time manner. Continuing the example if the user slides the finger off the seek area the target range displayed at the time the finger leaves the seek area is the target range available for selection of a character. The user then may continue the glide motion and touch a second point in the selection area . As feedback to the user a character related to the second point may be highlighted by enlarging that character or changing its color. This may assist the user to select a desired character. When the desired character is touched a lift off of the finger from a second point in the selection area adds the symbolic element to the text editing box .

In those regards and others the entry of letters or other symbolic elements via the two stage character input interface can therefore be performed with a single action using one finger or instrument although the two stage character input interface can also be configured to accept pauses and or discontinuities in the user s input contact with the display . For example the user may touch a first point in the seek area lift the finger from the seek area to select a target range touch a second point in the selection area and lift the finger from the selection area to select a character to be entered in the text editing box .

According to various implementations the two stage character input interface can likewise be configured so that if the user moves their finger and or pointing instrument all the way to either end of the selection area the target range shown in the selection area can enter a slow scrolling action or mode in which one symbolic element emerges at a time. When the desired element appears in this end of range slow scrolling mode the user can then lift the finger and or pointing instrument off the desired letter and or other symbolic element to select that element. Other techniques can be used to present the set of symbolic elements beyond the ends or boundaries of the available target range as initially shown in the selection area . Again the character under the second touch point may be highlighted to indicate the character that will be selected if the finger lifts off from that touch point.

In another example if the user touches a first point in the seek area to select a target range and lifts the finger and or pointing instrument directly off from the seek area the two stage character input interface can be configured to present the corresponding target range in the selection area for a predetermined amount of time in a hanging display fashion. If the user resumes by touching a second touch point in the selection area the letter and or other symbolic element selected can be highlighted such as by becoming enlarged and or changing color. Upon lift off of the finger from the selection area the highlighted symbolic element is entered into the text editing box . Alternately the user may touch another first point in the seek area to select another target range and continue text entry as previously described.

Further as another example when a user s finger or pointing instrument does not contact the display for a predetermined time such as for example 5 seconds the two stage character input interface can be configured to return to an initial or default condition and or position of the set of symbolic elements . In some implementations a default condition in those scenarios presents a target range positioned at or from the middle or center of the set of symbolic elements available from the selection area positioned at or from the first symbol and or other beginning of the set of symbolic elements positioned at or from the last symbol and or other end of the symbolic elements and or positioned at or from a set of most likely next characters based on any existing text in the text entry box .

While implementations shown in incorporate a seek area that is configured as a one dimensional and or linear representation of the set of symbolic elements in the form of alphabetic characters in other implementations the seek area can be configured in a two dimensional format and or can depict additional or different symbolic elements. shows a seek area configured to display the letters of the English alphabet in keyboard or QWERTY format in a two dimensional representation. In the implementation shown in the keyboard type object depicted in the seek area has the letters of a standard QWERTY type keyboard without any additional numbers grammatical symbols and or other symbolic elements but it will be appreciated that other versions of keyboard keys and or symbolic elements can be used. As shown the user can generally carry out similar input operations as described with respect to the examples shown in but the interface manager and or associated software or logic can be configured to identify the target range and or other data based on a two dimensional location or other input supplied via the user s first touch point on the seek area . When the two stage input interface has received a user touch point in the seek area for example the two stage character input interface can then generate and present the target range in a selection area with a one dimensional or linear representation of the target range for example by presenting letters and or other symbolic elements clockwise from the upper right corner of a surrounding block of letters of a predetermined size. Other rules for incorporating surrounding or adjacent symbols into the selection area can be used including selecting different numbers and or ranges of letters surrounding the user s first touch point selection in the seek area .

In other implementations and as for example shown in when selecting from a two dimensional QWERTY keyboard and or other object or depiction in the seek area the two stage character input interface can also present a two dimensional representation of a target range in a two dimensional selection area . In examples as shown the two dimensional representation of the target range in the selection area can be presented in the form of all letters and or other symbolic elements within one symbol of the selected letter and or symbol but again other selection rules and or numbers of surrounding symbolic elements can be used. In these and other implementations it may be noted again that further or different selection rules can be used by the interface manager and or other logic software and or service.

According to various aspects while certain of the foregoing implementations have incorporated letters and or other alphabetical elements for example the set of symbolic elements can in addition or instead include other elements such as numbers symbols icons and or other graphical elements. As illustrated in for example after a touch input or other selection action has been received the seek area can in implementations present numeric and other information related to a representation of a telephone keypad which as shown can be arranged in the rows and columns of a traditional telephone keypad. This representation in the seek area can be useful among other aspects when electronic device incorporates a cellular telephone capability but lacks a dedicated dialing keypad and or other dialer interface. As shown the associated selection area can incorporate a one dimensional or linear representation of the target range in the manner described herein. For example selection of a number and or other elements in such implementations can be used to conduct telephone number entry for dialing operations using the electronic device and or can be used for other number entry.

In another example as illustrated in the seek area can present the numeric and or other information in a representation of a telephone keypad but the associated selection area can present numeric and or other elements in a two dimensional format for a target range in the selection area . Again the rules by which the interface manager arranges or configures the symbolic elements of the target range in the selection area can vary so that different ranges directions and or samplings of symbols can be presented for user identification and or selection in the selection area .

In various further implementations and as for example shown in the interface presented on the display can be adapted or configured to achieve increased efficiency of use of the available screen area of the display based on certain operating conditions. Those conditions can include the re deployment or overlaying of graphics on certain areas of the display and or two stage character input interface at times when other display areas are not in use or needed. For example in at times during operation of the electronic device when the user is operating within the selection area to select lift off and enter a selected letter or other symbol and or performing other actions it may not be necessary to display the set of controls especially when those controls have no bearing on the selection or entry of individual letters or other symbols. During those times or others the interface manager can for example dissolve ghost out and or otherwise remove or disable the set of controls and allocate the display area occupied by those elements to the selection area on a temporary basis. The interface manager can revert to displaying the set of controls at their default location after the user has successfully selected and or entered a character and or after the expiration of a predetermined timeout period. Other conditions for the display or suppression of interface elements can be used.

Similarly in some implementations other interface gadgets dialogues buttons and or elements of the two stage character input interface and or touch screen display can be alternated re configured and or substituted when operation of the electronic device and or the set of applications does not require them to be displayed or accessible. For example during initial operation and or at other times the done virtual button and or cancel virtual button can be displayed in the text editing box with any already entered text e.g. a previous message ghosted or as background. After a first touch or other input in the seek area the text editing box can display the entered letters and or other symbols in normal font or relief with the done virtual button and or cancel virtual button being removed ghosted or no longer selectable until a second touch is made in the selection area .

Conversely before the user has touched a first point in the seek area to locate a desired target range and or at other times it may not be necessary to display the selection area and instead the set of controls and or an expanded set of virtual control buttons can be displayed in an area including the section dedicated to the selection area when in use.

It will be appreciated that dynamically re configuring the size position and or other attributes of the displayed interface elements can provide benefits including enlarged buttons for easier selection enlarged letters or other symbols for increased legibility an ability to display more controls or symbols and or other enhancements. It will be appreciated that other conditions or criteria can be used to switch re align alternate and or otherwise change the configuration of interface elements in the two stage character input interface and or touch screen display to gain more efficient use of the display area or for other purposes.

The processor can further communicate with a modulator demodulator and a transceiver via which the electronic device can transmit or receive wireless signals via antenna element and using those signals establish a connection to one or more networks not shown such as the Internet or other public or private networks. In some implementations the connection to the one or more networks via the antenna element and other resources can be or include a broadband wireless connection a WiFi connection and or wireless data connection. While wireless connections are described it will be appreciated that electronic device can connect with one or more networks not shown and or other networks access points and or services via wired or optical connections such as Ethernet connections USB connections or others. The processor can in general be or include one or more general purpose and or special purpose processors cores and or related logic and can programmed or configured to execute and or control the operating system the set of system resources including the interface manager the application programming interface API the set of applications and or other applications hardware software logic services and or resources. See . Other configurations of the electronic device associated network connections and other hardware software and other resources or services are possible.

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can generate configure and or present a character set in the seek area on the display . As noted previously the character set may be presented in full or abbreviated formats. In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can generate and or present the selection area on the display . Note that there may be no characters presented in the selection area initially or the selection area may present a default set of characters e.g. a middle target range a beginning target range or a set of most likely next characters .

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can optionally execute a user training and or demonstration routine on the seek area selection area and or other sections of the two stage character input interface . A user training and or demonstration routine can include a sequence of graphics representing input actions carried out on the two stage character input interface to illustrate a manner in which for example a first touch in the seek area can select a target range for display in the selection area and a second touch dragged and lifted off from the selection area can type or otherwise insert a selected symbolic element from the selection area into a dialogue box of the two stage character input interface or another application software and or service. In implementations besides performing the user training and or demonstration routine of step during a first time the user may operate the two stage character input interface and or associated program s that routine can also be performed after the user has caused a timeout event a predetermined number of times such as two three or other times and or based on other conditions.

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can make a determination whether user input has been received indicating a desired target range of the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information based on a touch point and or other selection in the seek area . For example the user can touch their finger and or a stylus or other pointing instrument or device to the surface of the seek area to indicate the point or section of the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information that they wish to expand into the target range which action can be detected by the interface manager .

If the determination in step is yes processing can proceed to in which the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can determine generate and or calculate the target range of the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information based on the user input provide in the seek area . For example in the case of an area around a touch point of the letter p presented on a linear or one dimensional seek area the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can identify a set of adjacent and or surrounding characters near the letter p and present those additional letters with the letter p as the target range . The interface manager can be configured to select a predetermined number of adjacent and or surrounding characters around a letter touched in the seek area such as one two three four or another number of characters adjacent to and or surrounding the p or other selected symbolic element from the seek area .

If the determination in step is no processing can return or loop back to the determination of step to continue to attempt to detect a selection of the target range . In implementations a timeout test may be performed to avoid an endless loop state resulting from a no determination in step .

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can identify generate access and or present the target range of the set of symbolic elements and or other characters figures marks and or information in or via the selection area . In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can make a determination whether an additional touch input and or other user selection and or other identification of a revised desired target range has been received in or via the seek area . If the determination of step is yes processing can return to step including determination of a next target range . In this manner successive target ranges can be displayed in the selection area . If the target range is updated in a smooth manner the letters displayed in the selection area may seem to scroll quickly until no more touch inputs are received on the seek area .

If the determination of step is no processing can proceed to in which the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can make a determination whether a user selection and or other input using a finger or pointing instrument which may be referred to as a touch down has been received in or via the selection area .

If the determination of step is no processing can proceed to step . In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can perform a timeout test using a predetermined time period to avoid an endless loop condition while attempting to detect a user selection of a desired symbolic element. If any timeout period has not expired processing can return or loop back to step . If a timeout period has expired processing can return to and or other processing point. If the determination of step is yes processing can proceed to in which the selected character and or other symbolic element can optionally be highlighted and or otherwise altered in appearance.

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can make a determination made whether the user selection or touch down is at an extreme of the selection area such as for example at the very beginning or very end of the selection area . If the determination in step is yes processing can proceed to step .

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can cause a slow scroll mode or state to be entered. In various implementations in the slow scroll mode or state individual symbolic elements can in general be displayed at a reduced rate one after the other creating a slow scrolling effect to assist the user in viewing and selecting a symbolic element at or beyond the extreme ends of the target range determined by an earlier touch on the seek area . In implementations the slow scroll mode or state can stop at the end of a character set displayed in the selection area such as at the letters a or z when the set of symbolic elements includes the English alphabet. In further implementations the slow scroll mode or state can restart at a new position in the set of symbolic elements such as by repositioning from the letter z to the letter a or from the letter a to the letter z. Other sequences can be used in restarting or resetting the display in the slow scroll mode or state.

If the determination in step is no processing can proceed to step . In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can make a determination whether a user selection and or other input using a lift off of a finger or pointing instrument which may be referred to as a touch up on the currently displayed symbolic element has been received. If the determination of step is no processing can return to step . Thus a user can slide a finger in the selection area without releasing the touch contact and receive feedback regarding one highlighted character or access a slow scroll mode to see additional characters that were not originally in the selection area at the time when the target range was determined.

When the desired letter is highlighted the user may release the touch contact. If the determination of step is yes processing can proceed to step in which the letter and or other symbolic element located at the touch up point and or other selection point can be selected for input. After step processing can proceed to step .

In step the interface manager can insert input and or add the selected letter and or other symbolic element identified in the selection area in the text editing box and or other dialogue. In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can optionally minimize retract and or dissolve the selection area after the symbolic element is inserted as appropriate. For example the selection area can fade and the seek area can restore to a center point and or other default point.

In step the interface manager and or other logic software and or service can make a determination whether the user has inputted or selected the done or cancel button and or supplied other input indication completion of the symbol input process. If the determination of step is no processing can return to step including the detection of user input indicating a new target range . If the determination of step is yes processing can proceed to step in which the completed and or composed text string and or other input can be returned back to the calling application. For example entry or acceptance into the text editing box for example by selecting the done virtual button can insert the text message symbolic elements and or other data into a data object s associated with the application s and or services the user is operating on the electronic device . In step processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

It will be appreciated that while various processing activity logical decisions and or other operations illustrated in or elsewhere have been described as taking place in steps that two or more of various of those operations or activities can be combined into one operation or activity and that any one or more of those operations or activities can be divided into two or more operations or activities. Moreover while those various operations or activities have been illustrated and described as occurring in a certain order it will be appreciated that in implementations those same and or other operations or activities can take place in a different order or orders. It will likewise be understood that indicated reference numbers in connection with the various illustrated steps are intended for reference only and are not meant to necessarily imply dependencies precedence and or orders between steps or that steps can not be rearranged or reordered. Further while various operations or activities have been described as being carried out by certain hardware software service and or other resources it will be appreciated that in implementations the same activities and or operations can be carried out by other hardware software service and or other resources and or combinations of the same.

It will likewise be appreciated that the foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described that incorporate a two stage character input interface in implementations three or more input stages can be used. Similarly while implementations have been described in which the electronic device can be or include a portable wireless communications device in implementations the operative device can be or include other types or classes of devices or hardware such as for example a data device or hardware incorporated in an automobile having a dashboard or other display screen or area. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

