---

title: Plasmonic interferometer sensor
abstract: An optical device includes a transparent substrate and a conductive layer disposed over an upper surface of the transparent substrate. The conductive layer defines at least one groove inwardly extending from an upper surface and includes an aperture that is spaced apart from the at least one groove. An interface between the upper surface of the conductive layer and an ambient medium defines an optical branch along which surface plasmon polariton modes are excited in response to at least partially coherent light being received by the optical device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297955&OS=09297955&RS=09297955
owner: 
number: 09297955
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120906
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 894 699 filed Sep. 30 2010 claiming priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 248 114 filed on Oct. 2 2009 and claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 532 791 filed Sep. 9 2011 the entireties of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support from the National Science Foundation Bioengineering Environmental Systems under awards 0608742 and 1014957 the National Science Foundation Electrical Communications and Cyber Systems under awards 0901324 and 1128086 and from the Department of Defense Army Research Laboratories Army Optics V and VI. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The disclosed system and method relate to interferometry. More specifically the disclosed system and method relate to interferometry utilizing vertical and circular plasmonic interferometers.

Interferometry is one of the most sensitive optical interrogation methods and has been used in a wide array of technologies including astronomy fiber optics engineering metrology quantum mechanics plasma physics remote sensing and biomolecular interactions such as screening molecular interactions in surface binding modes. Several types of interferometry have been developed such as fluorescence interferometry for high resolution microscopy or nanoscopy label free sensing based on a Mach Zehnder Interferometer a Young Interferometer a dual polarization interferometer back scattering interferometry and spectral reflectance interferometry to name a few.

Surface Plasmons SPs are coherent oscillations of conduction electrons on a metal surface excited by electromagnetic radiation at a metal dielectric interface. The sensitivity of the Surface Plasmon Resonance SPR to the refractive index change at a flat metal interface has led to the development of SPR sensing systems based on interferometry and that use prisms to couple light into a single surface plasmon mode on a flat continuous metal film e.g. gold . However the relatively large size of these experimental systems is a disadvantage for applications requiring integrated low cost compact image based devices for portable rapid bio analytical measurements.

Nanoplasmonic biosensors employing nanoscale metal particles provide an attractive miniaturized platform for sensitive label free monitoring of cellular processes. When receptor molecules are immobilized on the nanostructured metal surface the binding of target biomolecules changes the local refractive index which affects the optical properties of the SP modes and permits optical detection. Recent advances in nanofabrication nanomaterial synthesis and nanocharacterization permit significant advances over conventional SPR evanescent wave based biosensors whose large size limits their effectiveness for probing nanovolumes and single cells and for integration into microfluidic platforms. However the sensitivities for these nanoplasmonic structures are much lower two to three orders of magnitude than other sensitive optical sensing technologies.

An optical device is disclosed that includes a transparent substrate and a conductive layer disposed over an upper surface of the transparent substrate. The conductive layer defines at least one groove inwardly extending from an upper surface and an aperture that is spaced apart from the at least one groove. An interface between the upper surface of the conductive layer and an ambient medium defines an optical branch along which surface plasmon polariton modes are excited in response to at least partially coherent light being received by the optical device.

In some embodiments a vertical plasmonic interferometer includes a substrate and a conductive layer. The substrate includes first and second opposed surfaces and is configured to transmit light received at the first surface to the second surface and to transmit light received at the second surface to the first surface. The conductive layer includes a third surface that is disposed on an opposite side of the conductive layer than a fourth surface. The fourth surface defines an interface with an ambient medium. The conductive layer defines at least one groove inwardly extending from the fourth surface and defines an aperture that is spaced apart from the at least one groove. The interface between the fourth surface and the ambient medium defines an optical branch along which surface plasmon polariton modes are excited in response to at least partially coherent light being received by the vertical plasmonic interferometer.

This description is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description. The drawing figures are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be shown exaggerated in scale or in somewhat schematic form in the interest of clarity and conciseness. In the description relative terms such as horizontal vertical up down top and bottom as well as derivatives thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing figure under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and normally are not intended to require a particular orientation. Terms including inwardly versus outwardly longitudinal versus lateral and the like are to be interpreted relative to one another or relative to an axis of elongation or an axis or center of rotation as appropriate. Terms concerning attachments coupling and the like such as connected and interconnected refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise. When only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The term operatively connected is such an attachment coupling or connection that allows the pertinent structures to operate as intended by virtue of that relationship. In the claims means plus function clauses if used are intended to cover the structures described suggested or rendered obvious by the written description or drawings for performing the recited function including not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.

Various vertical plasmonic interferometers are disclosed. In some embodiments a vertical plasmonic Mach Zehnder interferometer VPMZI is disclosed that provides high sensitivity optical sensing. The VPMZI enables optical microscopes to perform Surface Plasmon Resonance SPR sensing thereby eliminating the need for the conventional bulky and expensive angular tunable systems. The flexibility provided by the VPMZIs advantageously enables future microscopes to integrate SPR sensing functionality which should have significant commercial potential. Additionally the compact package of the VPMZIs disclosed herein may be integrated into sensitive biosensing platforms and subwavelength optics on a chip.

The VPMZI illustrated in includes a first substrate on which a second substrate is disposed. A first interface is defined between substrate and substrate and a second interface is defined by substrate and ambient medium . Second substrate defines first and second slits which are horizontally spaced apart from one another. A light source may be configured to direct light towards first slit and a detection device may be configured to receive scattered light from second slit .

Substrate is fabricated from glass and may have a variety of thicknesses and widths. Examples of substrate include but are not limited to glass Quartz and other transparent semiconductor substrates.

Substrate is a metal containing layer having a thickness approximately on the order of tens or hundreds of nanometers depending on the material from which substrate is fabricated. Such materials include but are not limited to gold silver copper and aluminum to name only a few possible materials. Substrate may be deposited on substrate in a variety of methods including but not limited to chemical vapor deposition CVD atomic layer deposition ALD electroless plating and sputtering and evaporation.

Slits and may be formed in substrate by utilizing a wide variety of methods such as focused ion beam FIB milling electron beam e beam lithography and nano imprint lithography. The thicknesses of slits and are on the order of one to several hundreds of nanometers and may vary depending on the material used for substrate in order to couple visible and near visible infrared light. For example if substrate is a 200 nm thick silver film deposited on a glass substrate and includes two parallel slits and that are separated from each other by approximately 97 m then slits and may be approximately 100 nm wide and 40 m long for use with wavelengths between 800 and 900 nm. Slits and may also be disposed from one another at various distances on the order of several microns to tens of microns and beyond.

Interface between substrate and substrate defines a first optical branch or optical transmission path capable of supporting at least one surface plasmon polariton SPP mode. Similarly interface between substrate and ambient medium defines a second optical branch capable of supporting at least one SPP mode having a different phase than the SPP mode of interface . Medium may be a dielectric material in the form of a solid liquid or gas. In some embodiments in which VPMZI is integrated into a biologic sensing device medium is a liquid such as water that includes a sample of biologic material to be tested and in some embodiments medium is air. However one skilled in the art will understand that VPMZI may be disposed within a variety of different mediums for testing.

Light source may be any light source that provides light that is at least partially coherent. For example light source may be a halogen lamp light emitting diode LED or a laser to name a few possible partially coherent light sources. Light source may be disposed adjacent to substrate such that light emitted by light source contacts a surface of substrate which is on the opposite side of substrate as interface . Light may be emitted from light source such that it is parallel to a plane defined by surface of substrate and is approximately aligned with an axis defined by slit defined by substrate . In some embodiments light source emits light at an angle other than a right angle with respect to a plane defined by surface of substrate . Additionally a polarizer not shown may be coupled to the light source to polarize the at least partially coherent light emitted by light source . For example the polarizer may polarize light such that light is perpendicular to slits and .

Detection device may be any device configured to detect optical signals emitted from slit either through ambient medium shown in as solid rectangle or through substrate shown in as dotted rectangle . Examples of detection devices include but are not limited to spectrometers monochromators charged coupled device CCD or complimentary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensors. In some embodiments detection device may be a spectrum analyzer configured to receive and perform spectral analysis on the optical signals emitted from slit .

In operation light source emits at least partially coherent light towards surface of substrate . As described above light may be transmitted by light source such that light is emitted at an angle that is orthogonal to a plane defined by surface or light may be transmitted by light source at an angle other than ninety degrees with respect to a plane defined by surface . Regardless of the angle at which light is emitted with respect to the plane defined by surface light is directed towards one of the slits defined by substrate .

The light received at surface of substrate is transmitted through substrate to interfaces and of substrate at or near a location of one of the slits in this example at slit . One or more SPP modes and are excited in each of the optical transmission paths defined by interfaces and in response to receiving light from light source . SPP modes and propagate towards slit where they constructively and destructively interfere with one another.

The interference of SPP modes and at slit results in scattered light being emitted from slit toward ambient medium and back into substrate . Detection device may be positioned adjacent to substrate or substrate such that it receives scattered light . The interference pattern of the far field scattering of SPP modes and includes the following term 

Notably the two optical branches defined by interfaces and of VPMZI may be separated by a gap that is only several hundred nanometers wide i.e. the thickness of substrate may be on the order of hundreds of nanometers which is appreciably smaller than for silicon based planar MZIs.

The phase modulation properties of VPMZI are sensitive to changes in the refractive index in the sensing transmission path relative to the refractive index in the reference transmission path . When the refractive index of the sensing transmission path which is determined by the refractive index of ambient medium n is changed to n n the phase change is given by the following equation 

Equation 2 can be used to analyze the relation between the phase change and the refractive index change. In this calculation an incident wavelength of 1033 nm is employed for which the permittivity of silver 48.81 i3.16 is used as substrate . Assuming that the ambient medium is water n 1.33 and the distance between slits and a refractive index change of 0.1 may introduce a phase change of about 7.2 2 as shown in which is in a good agreement with the two dimensional 2D finite difference time domain FDTD modeling result shown in . Based on the FDTD modeling result more than seven periods of interference pattern can be observed in the far field scattering signal which can be utilized in optical sensing applications. The length of the sensing transmission path is kept relatively short to minimize the intrinsic loss of metals. For example transmission paths and may be on the order of tens of microns to hundreds of microns although one skilled in the art will understand that transmission paths and may have other lengths. Consequently the phase change sensitivity of this metallic VPMZI approximately 72 2 refractive index unit RIU is much lower than Si based MZIs with long sensing arms. For example the phase change sensitivity of a Si based MZI with a 5 mm sensing arm is reported to be about 1400 2 RIU.

The double slit or slit groove metal VPMZI device can also support spectral interference when the input is a broad band light source. Spectral interference is supported by the proposed VPMZI which provides an ultrahigh sensitivity that is significantly better than has been reported for other nanoplasmonic architectures. For example when the refractive index or the ambient medium is changed the peaks and valleys in the interference pattern will shift. The sensitivity may be derived by setting the right side of Equation 2 to a constant value which yields the following equation 

From Equation 3 it is seen that when nn then the sensitivity value is positive indicating that the interference pattern will shift to longer wavelengths. Equation 3 also provides that the sensitivity increases if the two terms in the denominator are close in value. illustrates the sensitivities that could potentially be achieved by varying the refractive index of the material of substrate . In this calculation substrate is gold and ambient medium is water n 1.33 .

As an example when n 1.51 the relation between the sensitivity and the operating wavelength is shown by the lowest curve in . The sensitivity cannot be enhanced by orders or magnitude by employing longer wavelengths. However when the refractive index of substrate n is decreased and approaches that of ambient medium n the sensitivity can increase significantly as illustrated by the series of curves in .

Matching the ERI at of substrate and ambient medium increases the sensitivity of VPMZI . In one embodiment the ERI matching condition is where the dispersion curve at the interface is approximately equal to the dispersion curve at interface which indicates that the ERI match condition could be met over a broad range of wavelengths. This can in principle be accomplished by providing a substrate having a refractive index that is close to the refractive index of ambient medium . For example fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer FEP may be implemented as substrate because it is chemically inert thermoplastic transparent in the visible region and has a refractive index of 1.341 at the of 590 nm.

A 2D FDTD method was used to simulate the sensitivity for a gold substrate disposed on substrates having various refractive index values for a VPMZI in accordance with in which slits and were separated by approximately 70 m and only slit was illuminated by the incident light. The sensitivity from the shift in the peak or valley wavelength was calculated for a variety of different refractive indices. For example if n 1.46 then when nchanges from 1.33 to 1.331 the peak of the interference pattern at 970 nm will shift to 964 nm which indicates that the sensitivity is 0.6 10nm RIU see the upper panel in . If nis set to 1.36 then the valley of the interference pattern at 940 nm shifts to 908 nm which indicates a sensitivity of about 3.2 10nm RIU. Similarly the peak at 1168 nm shifts to 1132 nm which indicates a sensitivity of about 3.6 10nm RIU as shown in the upper panel of . Further decreasing nto 1.35 provides a shift in the valley position from 1076 nm to 1034 nm which indicates a sensitivity of 4.2 10nm RIU. At the same time the peak at 1582 nm shifts to 1486 nm which indicates a sensitivity of about 9.2 10 nm RIU as shown in the upper panel of . In accordance with the expression on the right side of Equation 2 the theoretical spectral interference pattern of this structure was calculated and plotted in the lower panels in which is in accordance with the FDTD modeling result. Remarkably the sensitivities shown in are between one and two orders of magnitude larger than the best sensitivity previously reported for nanohole arrays approximately 1500 nm RIU .

If a low refractive index substrate is unavailable then the ERI matching condition can also be met by various surface dispersion engineering approaches. For example one can introduce a thin film of dielectric material with a higher refractive index on substrate at interface between substrate and ambient medium to tune the ERI of this interface. Various nanopatterned structures such as periodic metal dielectric air grooves and surface grating structures can be employed to finely tune the shape of the dispersion curve and approach to the ERI match condition.

An experiment was performed to determine if spectral interference of light emitted from slot is observable. The optical transmission measurements were performed on an IX81 inverted microscope available from Olympus America Inc. of Center Valley Pa. using a white light beam from a 100 W halogen lamp that was focused at nominal incidence onto surface of substrate which was a glass substrate through the microscope condenser with a linear polarizer. The polarization of the incident light was transverse magnetic TM with respect to the longitudinal axis of slit . The transmission light was collected by an 40 microscope objective with a numerical aperture of 0.6 coupled into a multimode fiber bundle connected with a fiber based compact spectrometer which was a USB4000 fiber optic spectrometer available from Ocean Optics Inc. of Dunedin Fla.

A charge coupled device CCD camera was employed to align the position of the double slits. Consequently the collection condition of the transmitted light from all the samples is almost identical. A diaphragm in the condenser was employed to minimize the intensity of the light beam illuminating the other slit . Several VPMZIs in accordance with were fabricated using by creating slits and at various distances in 300 nm thick layers of gold and silver substrate that were evaporated onto a flat fused silica microscope slide substrate . Slits and which had a thickness of approximately 220 nm were formed by FIB milling substrate with a DualBeam 235 available from FEI Company of Hillsboro. Four samples on a silver film with slit slit separation distances of 10.50 13.12 15.73 and 20.98 m were observed and studied. A scanning electron microscope image of a VPMZI having a slit slit separation distance of 15.73 m with slits and having widths of approximately 220 nm is shown in .

Further embodiments and experiments are described in the attachment entitled Plasmonic Mach Zehnder Interferometer for Ultrasensitive On Chip Biosensing which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The measurement results are shown by bold solid lines and in in which spectral interference patterns can be observed under the TM illumination. The low frequency background and high frequency noise have been numerically filtered by Fast Fourier Transform FFT the low frequency cutoff was set at 2.896 mand the high frequency cutoff was set at 217.196 m . Theoretical interference patterns were calculated in accordance with Equation 1 and are identified in as reference numerals and . Specifically reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 20.98 m reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 15.73 m reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 13.12 m and reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 10.50 m.

As shown in the theoretical predictions are in accordance with the measurement thereby confirming the occurrence of SPP mediated spectral interference from interfaces and . Consequently demonstrates that air Ag glass interfaces are able to support several different interference patterns including but not limited to the SPP modes on interface or interface which can both interfere with free space light and introduce interference patterns with higher modulation frequencies. High frequency interference patterns were also observed in the wavelength region between 700 nm and 800 nm. The amplitude of the interference signal is optimized by balancing the intensity of the two SPP modes which are related to the coupling efficiencies for the two SPP modes at interfaces and in VPMZI .

As best seen in which provides a cross sectional view of interferometer multiple layers are formed over a substrate . In some embodiments substrate is formed of glass. Other materials may be used as substrate including but not limited to quartz transparent polymers e.g. PDMS fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer epoxy resins and other transparent semiconductor substrates as will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. A first conductive layer is formed on an upper surface of substrate . Conductive layer can be a metallic material such as for example gold silver copper and aluminum or from graphene for mid infrared frequencies to list but only a few possible materials. A dielectric layer is formed on an upper surface of first conductive layer . Dielectic layer may be selected based on the wavelengths that are to be used for data transmission or sensing. For example dielectric layer can include silicon and silicon dioxide for telecommunications applications which typically utilize wavelengths of 1.33 m or 1.55 m. In embodiments utilizing visible wavelengths dielectric layer can include glass or a transparent polymer such as for example PDMS fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer and epoxy resins to name but only a few possibilities.

A second conductive layer is formed on an upper surface of dielectric layer . In some embodiments second conductive layer is formed from the same material as first conductive layer . In some embodiments conductive layer is formed from a different material than the material from which first conductive layer is formed.

Groove is formed by milling e.g. FIB milling etching or otherwise removing the metal insulator metal MIM layers from the upper surface of substrate to form a ring as illustrated in such that the upper surface of substrate is exposed. A milling etching or other process is used to form aperture which is formed by removing a portion of second conductive layer to expose an upper surface of dielectric layer .

The thickness of dielectric layer can be selected such that interferometer is tuned to support MIM modes are supported and other optical waveguide modes are not supported. Alternatively the thickness of dielectric layer can be selected such that both MIM and other optical waveguide modes are supported by interferometer .

As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the thickness of dielectric layer is based on the material and wavelength for which the interferometer will be used. For example in embodiment in which a SiOlayer is used as dielectric layer the thickness of dielectric layer is less than or equal to 189 nm for a free space wavelength of 700 nm.

In operation a light source directs light shown in as dashed arrows towards the bottom surface of substrate . The light propagates in the y direction through substrate towards the upper surface of substrate . The propagating light is received within the opening of groove where it excites one or more SPPs within dielectric layer which forms the reference arm of interferometer . The SPPs propagate in the x and z directions which are orthogonal to the y direction toward aperture . The light propagating through groove also excites one or more single interface SPPs SI SPP at the upper surface of conductive layer which is the interface between second conductive layer and the ambient surroundings. Interface between conductive layer and the air or ambient environment forms the sensing arm of interferometer .

When SPP modes excited by the groove propagate to aperture the SPP signals from the two optical branches i.e. the sensing arm and the reference arm interfere with each other and modulate the far field scattering from the aperture comprising a circular plasmonic MZI. Forming the first conductive layer from an opaque material enables aperture to not be illuminated by the incidence such that light source can emit a wide field light to excite the circular plasmonic MZI and a corresponding interference pattern can be observed. In some embodiments light source is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL .

The results of a FDTD simulation for an interferometer in accordance with are shown in . The width of groove and aperture were both 100 nm with substrate being glass first and second conductive layers being gold and dielectric layer being SiO. The thickness of the SiOlayer was 100 nm and the thicknesses of the first and second conductive layers was 300 nm.

As shown in spectral interference patterns can be observed. When the refractive index of the top environment is changed from 1.33 to 1.34 one can see the spectral interference pattern shift accordingly between the two curves in indicating that this novel circular design functions as a sensitive sensor. The structure may be designed as a two dimensional array and will finally yield a promising device for low cost and portable multiplexed and parallel sensor device.

As stated above interferometer can be fabricated on a VCSEL array to realize a compact plasmonic interference modulated sensor array for real time biomedical or environmental sensing for example in situ water monitoring and moisture or gas sensing . If the central dielectric material is replaced by electric thermal or optical modulated material the interference modulation of the structure should also be useful for optical modulator and switches.

Referring first to interferometer A includes an aperture around which a groove is formed such that a circular ring is defined in conductive layer . As best seen in interferometer A is a two layer structure comprising a transparent substrate over which a conductive layer film is disposed. In some embodiments transparent substrate is formed from glass Quartz or other transparent semiconductor material. Conductive layer can be formed from a metallic material including but not limited to silver gold gold silver copper and aluminum or from graphene to name only a few possible materials.

Conductive layer is patterned such that aperture extends through conductive layer to expose a portion of the upper surface of substrate thereby allowing light to propagate therethrough. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art aperture can be formed by milling etching or other suitable process to create aperture . Circular groove is formed to a specific depth from the upper surface of conductive layer such that groove does not extend to the upper surface of substrate .

Turning now to interferometer B also includes a substrate over which a conductive layer is formed. Aperture extends through the entirety of conductive layer such that an upper surface of substrate is exposed. Grooves and collectively grooves are formed in an upper portion of conductive layer . In some embodiments grooves are concentric and equally spaced from one another as well as being concentric with aperture .

In operation light propagates towards the upper surface of conductive layer i.e. in the negative y direction shown in . The propagating light excites SPPs at the interface between the upper surface of conductive layer and the ambient environment. The excited SPPs travel in the x and z directions either towards or away from aperture . At aperture the SPPs constructively and destructively interfere with one another and with the light that is directly transmitted through aperture . The SPPs are rescattered at aperture and modify the far field scattering.

Vertical plasmonic interferometers can also be implemented with non circular layouts. For example illustrate one example of a rectangular vertical plasmonic slit groove interferometer . Interferometer include an aperture taking the form of an elongate slit that is disposed between and parallel to a pair of parallel grooves collectively grooves . A transparent substrate supports a conductive or metallic layer which is formed over an upper surface of substrate .

In some embodiments substrate is formed of a transparent material that enables light to propagate through substrate . Examples of such materials include but are not limited to glass quartz transparent polymers e.g. PDMS fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer epoxy resins and other transparent semiconductor materials. In some embodiments substrate has a thickness of 150 m up to several centimeters.

Conductive layer is formed on an upper surface of transparent substrate . As described above conductive layer may be formed using gold silver copper aluminum or other metallic material. Aperture slit and grooves may be formed in conductive layer by milling etching or other suitable method. Slit is formed such that conductive layer is removed to expose the upper surface of substrate . In some embodiments slit extends entirely across substrate . Grooves are formed in conductive layer to a depth from the upper surface of conductive layer that is less than a thickness of conductive layer such that the upper surface of substrate is not exposed.

In operation light is directed towards the bottom surface of transparent layer . Being transparent light propagates through layer towards the bottom surface of conductive layer i.e. in a positive y direction . The opaque conductive layer blocks the propagating light except for the light received along slit which then propagates along slit in the y direction. The propagating light excites SPPs modes at interface between the upper surface of conductive layer and ambient air or fluid with which the upper surface of conductive layer is in contact. SPP modes travel along interface perpendicular to the direction in which the light propagates i.e. in the x direction . At least a portion of the SPP modes are reflected back toward slit by grooves where they interfere with light directly transmitted through slit .

A vertical plasmonic interferometer in accordance with the embodiment illustrated in was fabricated and tested. is a scanning electron microscope image of such a plasmonic interferometer. The fabricated interferometer included a 350 nm thick silver film evaporated on a glass microscope slide. Slit and grooves were formed using FIB milling such that slit and two flanking grooves were 30 m in length. The width x direction dimension of slit was 100 nm and the width of grooves were 120 nm. The depth of grooves was approximately 70 nm as measured by atomic force microscopy AFM NT MDT Solver NEXT . Slit was located at the center of grooves with a slit groove distance of L as shown in . For one experiment L was equal to 5.1 m.

After the FIB milling plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD was used to deposit a 3 5 nm thick silicon dioxide film on top of the silver surface. This chemically stable dielectric film functioned as a protection layer to enhance biocompatibility and chemical stability of the silver based device particularly in aqueous solutions.

The structure was illuminated through the substrate as illustrated in . Under the TM polarized illumination with the electric field perpendicular to the long axis of slit SPPs were launched at the central slit and propagated toward grooves where they were partially reflected back. The reflected SPPs were then scattered at slit and interfered with the light directly transmitted through the slit . The SPP mediated scattered light was collected by an 40 objective and coupled into a spectrometer.

The solid curves in show the experimental spectra of two interferometers with L of 5.1 and 9.0 m respectively in an air environment. A smoothing algorithm was not applied to the experimental spectra. Data were normalized by the transmission spectrum of an identical reference single slit milled on the same sample. One can see fast spectral oscillations with narrow peaks and valleys resulting from the constructive and destructive interference between the light transmitted directly through slit and SPPs propagating between grooves and slit . The scattered light intensity from the central slit carries the information of the relative phase difference between SPPs and the incident beam which is highly sensitive to the surface refractive index change and can be employed for sensing applications. To verify this SPP light interference hypothesis theoretical interference patterns were calculated using the following equation 

The Eand Eare the field amplitudes of directly transmitted light and SPP modes respectively n Re n n is the effective refractive index of SPPs at the metal dielectric interface is the metal permittivity n is the refractive index of the dielectric material on top of the metal surface and is an additional constant phase shift. The dotted curves in show the calculated interference patterns using the cosine term in Equation 4. The calculated oscillation frequencies and spectral positions of the peaks and valleys agree very well with the experimental data indicating that the interference between directly transmitted light and propagating SPPs can be observed using the experimental setup. The observed narrow linewidths of the interference oscillations can be used for enhanced refractive index sensing.

For example the intensity of the transmitted light at a specific wavelength depends on the phase difference between SPPs and free space light through the term 4 Ln of Equation 4. The phase difference can be modulated by the surface refractive index change or biomolecule adsorption at the sensor interface. A spectral shift of the interference pattern can be observed for broadband illumination. By setting the term n to constant in Equation 4 the refractive index sensitivity of this plasmonic sensor can be derived as

Equation 5 predicts that S is approximately 481 nm RIU in water environment at a wavelength around 650 nm. The unique advantage of this sensing scheme is the ultra narrow linewidth of the interference oscillation. The peak linewidth is defined as half of the oscillation period P and can be described by the following equation 

Using Equation 6 the peak linewidths are calculated to be 16.3 nm 636.1 nm and 9.1 nm 631.1 nm for interferometers with L 5.1 and 9.0 m in air respectively which corresponds to the experimental results illustrated in . Equation 6 also predicts that further decreased linewidths can be achieved in aqueous environment for larger L and shorter wavelengths. To evaluate the overall performance of plasmonic sensors more precisely we calculate the sensor figure of merit FOM S which is defined as the refractive index sensitivity divided by the sensing peak linewidth. FOM is widely accepted as an appropriate parameter to evaluate and compare the overall plasmonic sensor performance by taking into consideration both sensor sensitivity and sensing peak sharpness. The theoretical FOM of this plasmonic interferometer is derived as follows 

Equation 7 provides that high FOMs are achievable using the proposed sensing scheme. For example the calculated FOM value reaches 65 for an interferometer with L 9.0 m at 650 nm which surpass previous EOT based sensors with a typical FOM value of 23 and nanoparticle based LSPR sensors with FOMs typically 

The interferometer was integrated with a polydimethylsiloxane PDMS microfluidic flow cell and injected a series of glycerol water solutions of varying glycerol concentration to tune the liquid refractive index to experimentally demonstrate the theoretically predicted sensor performance. As shown in the interference patterns of interferometers with two different L both red shift as indicated by the directions of the arrows as the liquid refractive index increases. The peak positions were extracted using a Lorentzian fitting method and plotted in as a function of time. For clarity the sensor response of the interferometer with L 5.1 m was vertically displaced by 2 nm in this plot.

From both interferometers exhibit stable peak wavelengths at each glycerol concentration and the peak shifts were approximately proportional to the increase in glycerol concentration. The sensing peaks return to their initial spectral positions for both interferometers with the final DI water injection. The lower inset of shows the peak positions as a function of the liquid refractive index. The solid lines are the linear fits to the experimental data providing sensitivities of the two sensors. For plasmonic interferometers with L 5.1 and 9.0 m the measured sensitivities are 488.7 and 469.1 nm RIU respectively with peak linewidths of 13.9 and 7.0 nm and FOMs of 35.2 and 67.0 respectively all in good agreement with the theoretical predictions see Table 1 .

As shown in the upper inset of the standard deviation a of the monitored peak wavelength is around 0.005 nm which corresponds to a sensor refractive index resolution of 1 10RIU i.e. 0.005 nm 488.7 nm RIU . The sensor resolution was measured from a single plasmonic interferometer with a footprint of 30 10 m. Previous EOT based plasmonic sensors were able to achieve similar enhanced sensor resolutions by fabricating nano aperture arrays over millimeter or centimeter sized areas primarily to provide a large photon flux to enhance the sensor signal to noise ratio. Compared with these large area nano patterned sensors the disclosed plasmonic sensor has a smaller sensor footprint and advantageously enables multiplexing.

The enhanced sensor performance and small footprint of the disclosed vertical plasmonic interferometers permit sensitive multiplexed sensing with high packing density and enables sensor integration with compact microfluidic devices that require small reagent volumes. While the measured high FOM value of 67 could in principle be further increased for larger values of L and shorter wavelengths the spectral modulation depth decreases under these conditions due to the higher SPP propagation loss limiting improvements in sensor performance.

The FOM and sensor resolution of the plasmonic interferometer that was experimentally fabricated and tested can be improved by utilizing one or more of the following techniques. First SPP reflection efficiency at the two grooves can be enhanced by improving the quality of the fabricated two grooves e.g. using Ag Al double metal layers with the bottom Al layer as a slow etch rate FIB stop to precisely and uniformly control the fabricated groove depth . Second SPP propagation loss can be reduced by employing an ultrasmooth metal film obtained by template stripping. Third the sensor noise level could be further reduced by adding a temperature controller for the sensor chip and using a detector with a higher saturation level.

The binding between BSA and anti BSA was monitored in real time using the fabricated inteferometer for which L 5.1 m to demonstrate the feasibility of the sensing platform to detect biomolecular binding events. The results of the binding between BSA and anti BSA are illustrated in in which the arrows indicate the injections of analytes and buffer solutions. The upper inset of shows a schematic of anti BSA binding to BSA immobilized on the sensor surface. The microfluidic channel was first injected with a 10 mM HEPES buffer for 25 minutes to clean the sample surface and define the baseline of the experiment. A 500 g mL BSA solution in HEPES was introduced into the channel to functionalize the metal surface with a BSA monolayer which leads to a 0.9 nm shift of the peak wavelength see the first signal change at the time of 1200 s in .

A subsequent 25 min buffer rinse had little effect on the peak wavelength. A 42 g mL anti BSA solution was injected into the channel and followed by a buffer rinse to wash out the unbound anti BSA molecules. The small spikes observed at time t 3000 s and 4500 s are measurement artifacts caused by exchanging syringes. The specific binding between BSA and anti BSA corresponds to a peak wavelength shift of 1 nm. The observed 0.9 nm peak shift upon saturation coverage of BSA on the sensor surface corresponds to an effective protein layer thickness of 0.92 nm assuming the refractive index of BSA is 1.57 .

By use of the density of BSA 1.3 g cm the BSA surface concentration is calculated to be 1.2 10g cm i.e. 1.3 g cm 0.92 nm . The surface coverage resolution of the sensing system can be calculated using Equations 5 7. As described above the minimum resolvable peak wavelength shift of fabricated sensor was 0.005 nm which corresponds to an effective BSA layer thickness of 0.0051 nm. This sensor resolution in effective layer thickness can be converted to a protein coverage resolution by multiplying the BSA bulk density. The surface coverage resolution of the fabricated sensing system is 6.6 pg mm i.e. 1.3 g cm 0.0051 nm .

Real time and sensitive multiplexed sensing experiments by using a CCD camera and a narrow band light source were also performed. A 4 3 microarray of the slit groove plasmonic interferometers were fabricated and are illustrated in . Interferometers in the first and third second and fourth columns of the microarray have a groove slit distance L of 5.1 5.2 m. is a scanning electron microscope image of the fabricated microarray and is a CCD image of one of the plasmonic interferometers. Each interferometer had a footprint of around 300 mwith the center to center distance between each sensing element of 50 m giving a potential packing density of 4 10sensors per cm. Such a dense packing capability of the plasmonic sensing scheme enables low cost label free and high throughput on chip microarray applications.

The fabricated microarray was illuminated through the substrate using a white light source passing through an optical band pass filter centered at 655 nm with a 12 nm bandwidth. The transmitted light from the 12 interferometers was then collected simultaneously by a 40 microscope objective and imaged onto a CCD camera. The transmitted light intensity change from each interferometer is determined by two factors 1 the spectral shift due to the refractive index change and 2 the slope of the transmission spectrum at the illumination wavelength. Accordingly to achieve the optimized sensing performance the slit groove distance is tuned to spectrally shift the interference pattern and position its high slope region at the illumination wavelength.

Plasmonic interferometers with L of 5.1 and 5.2 m were used in the measurement and their transmission spectra are shown in . The central shaded regions indicate the spectral range of the incident light. The interference patterns red shift with the increase of the liquid refractive index and the transmitted intensity could either increase or decrease depending on negative or positive slope of the transmission spectrum. The dots in present real time experimental measurements of the transmitted intensities from two interferometers indicated by boxes and in respectively. As a series of glycerol water solutions with varying glycerol concentration were injected into the channel the sensor transmitted intensities either decrease for L 5.1 m or increase for L 5.2 m in agreement with the predictions. Following the 6 glycerol test DI water was again introduced into the channel returning the transmitted intensities to their initial levels and validating the reliability of the sensing performance. The standard deviation of the measured light intensity determines the refractive index resolution of this intensity interrogated sensor which are calculated to be 4 10RIU L 5.2 m and 3 10RIU L 5.1 m for two interferometers respectively.

A dual channel differential method can reduce the effects of noise from mechanical vibrations and light intensity fluctuations. As shown in two interferometers were designed different lengths i.e. L 5.1 and 5.2 m which exhibit similar initial transmitted intensities but have positive and negative intensity change sensitivities. As a result a signal arising from surface refractive index change shifts the transmitted intensities of these two sensors in two different directions that is transmission increase or decrease while unwanted signal from light intensity fluctuations and mechanical vibrations change two transmitted intensities in the same direction.

By monitoring the difference between the transmitted intensities from two interferometers in real time this method not only approximately doubles the sensor response but also effectively subtracts the background noises and the baseline drift see dots in dual channel section of . The resulting refractive index sensing resolution decreases to 5 10RIU which is six times smaller than that of the single channel sensing method 3 10RIU for a interferometer with L 5.1 m .

Further improvement in sensor resolution is also possible by using similar methods as discussed above. For example metal films with ultra smooth surfaces and precisely fabricated grooves could increase the interference modulation depth and thus improve the sensitivity of this intensity interrogated multiplexed sensor. Additionally an intense and highly stable laser source may further reduce the light source fluctuation and therefore improve the sensor resolution compared to using a halogen lamp.

As best seen in interferometer includes a plurality of layers formed over substrate . In some embodiments substrate is formed of glass although other materials including but not limited to quartz transparent polymers e.g. PDMS fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer epoxy resins and other transparent semiconductor substrates may be used as substrate . A first conductive layer is disposed on an upper surface of substrate . A dielectric layer is formed on an upper surface of first conductive layer and a second conductive layer is disposed over an upper surface of dielectric layer .

First and second conductive layers can be a metallic material such as for example gold silver copper and aluminum or be graphene to list only a few possible materials. In some embodiments first and second conductive layers are formed from the same material. In some embodiments first and second conductive layers are formed from different materials.

Dielectic layer may be selected based on the wavelengths that are to be used for data transmission or sensing. For example dielectric layer can include silicon and silicon dioxide for telecommunications applications which typically utilize wavelengths of 1.33 m or 1.55 m. In embodiments utilizing visible wavelengths dielectric layer can include glass or a transparent polymer such as for example PDMS fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer and epoxy resins to name but only a few possibilities.

Grooves are formed by milling e.g. FIB milling etching or otherwise removing MIM layers from the upper surface of substrate to form a pair of parallel lines that extend from one side of substrate to an opposite side of substrate as best seen in such that the upper surface of substrate is exposed . A milling etching or other process is used to form aperture which is formed by removing a portion of second conductive layer to expose an upper surface of dielectric layer .

The thickness of dielectric layer can be selected such that interferometer is tuned to support MIM modes are supported and other optical waveguide modes are not supported. Alternatively the thickness of dielectric layer can be selected such that both MIM and other optical waveguide modes are supported by interferometer .

As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the thickness of dielectric layer is based on the material and wavelength for which the interferometer will be used. For example in embodiment in which a SiOlayer is used as dielectric layer the thickness of dielectric layer is less than or equal to 189 nm for a free space wavelength of 700 nm.

In operation a light source directs light shown in as dashed arrows towards the bottom surface of substrate . The light propagates in the y direction through substrate towards the upper surface of substrate . The propagating light is received within the opening or groove where it excites one or more SPPs within dielectric layer which forms the reference arm of interferometer . The SPPs propagate in the x and z directions which are orthogonal to the y direction toward aperture . The light propagating through groove also excites one or more SI SPPs SI SPP at the upper surface of conductive layer which is the interface between second conductive layer and the ambient surroundings. Interface between conductive layer and the air or ambient environment forms the sensing arm of interferometer .

When SPP modes excited by the groove propagate to aperture the SPP signals from the two optical branches i.e. the sensing arm and the reference arm interfere with each other and modulate the far field scattering from the aperture comprising a plasmonic MZI. Forming the first conductive layer from an opaque material enables aperture to not be illuminated by the incidence such that light source can emit a wide field light to excite the plasmonic MZI and a corresponding interference pattern can be observed. In some embodiments light source is a VCSEL although one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that other light sources may be used.

Combining surface plasmon modes and the MZI concept into a single device as described above advantageously extends single point sensing to two dimensional multiplexed sensor arrays which should be promising for low cost and portable parallel sensing applications. The vertical plasmonic interferometers advantageously provide high sensitivity for optical sensing that has the potential for a one to two order of magnitude improvement over conventional nanoaperture arrays. Additionally compact sensing packages can be integrated into sensitive biosensing platforms and subwavelength optics on a chip. For example vertical plasmonic interferometers can be integrated into a microfluidic channel to observe SPP interference in liquid and gaseous environments.

Although the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the invention which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the invention.

