---

title: Micro gas-puff based source
abstract: Various technologies described herein pertain to a micro gas-puff based source of neutrons, x-rays, and/or energetic particles. The micro gas-puff based source can generate plasma, which can emit neutrons, x-rays, and the like. The micro gas-puff based source includes a diode, which further includes an anode and a cathode. Further, a chamber is between the anode and the cathode. Moreover, a MEMS gas supply can inject a puff of gas between the anode and the cathode within the chamber, where the MEMS gas supply shapes the puff of gas to form a quasispherical density profile of gas created in various of geometries. Further, a pulsed power supply applies a voltage across the anode and the cathode to cause compression of the puff of gas to form the plasma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08530854&OS=08530854&RS=08530854
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08530854
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121009
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Neutrons can be utilized for various applications. Production of monoenergetic neutrons is commonly performed using either a beam on target configuration or a plasma configuration which can create a center of mass energy for deuterium deuterium DD or deuterium tritium DT fusion e.g. 2.5 MeV and 14 MeV . These devices can be referred to as neutron sources. Sources in a beam on target configuration can be DC constant beam or pulsed. In some instances radioactive sources such as plutonium beryllium PuBe or americium Am can be used. Yet radioactive sources can have a drawback in that such sources can create radiological hazards.

The beam on target configuration generally provides continuous emission or a long train of emissions e.g. linear accelerator designs composed of microsecond bursts which can be comprised of a sequence of approximately 1 ns pulses and beam energies of 5 keV to 500 keV. In order to develop appreciable numbers of neutrons many pulses may be provided. Moreover common plasma sources such as dense plasma focus DPF can use short pulses e.g. on the order of nanoseconds to microseconds .

In a plasma configuration ions are commonly confined and have many opportunities to react and fuse thereby creating neutrons. Such confinement can result in neutrons in a plasma as compared to the energy of the beam in a beam on target configuration. Various types of techniques for plasma generation are conventionally utilized. Examples of such techniques include inertial confinement fusion ICF and magnetic confinement fusion. In inertial confinement fusion reactions can be initiated by heating and compressing a fuel target typically in the form of a pellet that often contains a mixture of deuterium and tritium. In magnetic confinement fusion magnetic fields can be utilized to confine hot fusion fuel in the form of plasma.

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to a micro fluid puff based neutron x ray and or energetic particle source. The micro fluid puff based source can generate plasma which can emit neutrons x rays and the like. The micro fluid puff based source includes a diode that inhibits current flow during a first state and allows current to flow during a second state. The diode can further include an anode and a cathode. Further a chamber is between the anode and the cathode. Moreover a micro scale fluid supply e.g. a MEMS fluid supply can inject a puff of fluid e.g. gas liquid etc. between the anode and the cathode within the chamber where the micro scale fluid supply shapes the puff of fluid to form a quasispherical density profile. It is contemplated that the fluid can be a gas or a liquid and thus such gas or liquid can be used as a component of a pinch as described in greater detail below. Further a pulsed power supply applies a voltage across the anode and the cathode to cause current to flow. The current can create a magnetic field and combined effects of electric and magnetic fields compress the puff of fluid to form the plasma.

According to various embodiments the micro fluid puff based source can include a single micro scale fluid supply that injects a puff of fluid between the anode and the cathode within the chamber. Hence the micro scale fluid supply can be oriented to form a Z pinch. In accordance with such embodiments the micro scale fluid supply can form the quasispherical density profile by including a nozzle that has a Mach number less than one subsonic equal to one sonic or greater than one supersonic and by being underexpanded for supersonic or by being overexpanded for supersonic or by being critically expanded for supersonic or sonic for example.

In accordance with other embodiments the micro fluid puff based source can include two micro scale fluid supplies. The micro scale fluid supplies can be oriented to intersect. For example the micro scale fluid supplies can be oriented to form an X pinch however other geometries are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. Accordingly a first puff of fluid can be injected between the anode and the cathode within the chamber from a first micro scale fluid supply and a second puff of fluid can be injected between the anode and the cathode within the chamber from a second micro scale fluid supply. The fluid puffs from the first micro scale fluid supply and the second micro scale fluid supply can be concurrently injected into the chamber and can intersect within the chamber e.g. halfway between the anode and the cathode to form a single pinch having a quasispherical density profile e.g. the X pinch . Moreover the voltage can be applied across the anode and the cathode e.g. by the pulsed power source to compress the quasispherical density profile of fluid e.g. of crossed or annular puffs of fluid to form the plasma. Alternatively a plenum designed in parallel can be utilized to yield an X pinch.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to a micro fluid puff based source for neutrons x rays energetic particles and the like are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The micro fluid puff based source described herein can form a plasma that includes hot dense material. Such plasma can be a source of neutrons x rays energetic particles and so forth. For instance the plasma can be a source of continuum x rays or inner shell line radiation which can be used for medical or other purposes where useful to utilize bright x rays that can be efficiently generated yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

As set forth herein the micro fluid puff based source is a small scale device with optimized parameters. For example performance of the micro fluid puff based source can be enhanced as compared to conventional sources by optimally coupling particle density profiles and physical scales to a primary power source. Moreover the micro fluid puff based source can include precision microcomponents that can provide higher densities and more precise density profiles as compared to conventional sources. Further the micro fluid puff based source can employ differing operating principles compared to many conventional approaches such as dense plasma focus technology thereby providing pinches that comparatively can have improved energy densities and performance. Accordingly the micro fluid puff based source can have enhance performance in single shot and or repetitive operation for generation of neutrons x rays energetic particles etc. in a micro or meso scale.

The micro fluid puff based source can provide such enhanced performance by employing a pinch with an aspect ratio that differs from conventional aspect ratios. Typical pinches oftentimes are tall and thin in contrast the pinch provided by the micro fluid puff based source can be short and wide e.g. a quasispherical density profile which is non uniform between an anode and a cathode and can have a higher density of fluid. The micro fluid puff based source can use micro technology to provide for higher pressure precision and control of such quasispherical density profile.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a micro fluid puff based source of neutrons x rays or energetic particles. The micro fluid puff based source can be a micro gas puff based source or a micro liquid puff based source. The micro fluid puff based source includes a diode . The diode can include two separated electrodes. For instance the diode can include an anode and the cathode . Moreover a chamber is between the anode and the cathode . The chamber can further extend outside of the volume between the anode and the cathode . Pursuant to an example the chamber can be a vacuum chamber or a low pressure chamber e.g. with a pressure less than one atmosphere with a pressure less than 10 Torr etc. yet it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

The micro fluid puff based source further includes a micro scale fluid supply . The micro scale fluid supply can inject a puff of fluid e.g. jet of fluid etc. between the anode and the cathode within the chamber . The fluid injected by the micro scale fluid supply can be a puff of gas a puff of liquid etc. Further the micro scale fluid supply can shape the puff of fluid to form a quasispherical density profile. According to an example the micro scale fluid supply can be embedded in the anode . By way of another example the micro scale fluid supply can be embedded in the cathode .

According to an example the micro scale fluid supply can be a microelectromechanical systems MEMS fluid supply e.g. a MEMS gas supply a MEMS liquid supply etc. . However it is to be appreciated that component s of the micro scale fluid supply or the micro scale fluid supply in general need not be MEMS devices. For example the micro scale fluid supply or components thereof can be manufactured via electrical discharge machining EDM . Thus the micro scale fluid supply can include a nozzle and a valve where the valve can be substantially any valve that can operate quickly and provide for fast transport of material e.g. the fluid and the nozzle can be substantially any nozzle that has an appropriate mechanical shape and structure.

Pursuant to various embodiments the micro fluid puff based source can include one micro scale fluid supply e.g. the micro scale fluid supply to inject fluid into the chamber . Moreover according to other embodiments the micro fluid puff based source can include a second micro scale fluid supply namely a micro scale fluid supply to inject fluid into the chamber . The micro scale fluid supply and the micro scale fluid supply are collectively referred to herein as the micro scale fluid supplies .

According to embodiments where the micro fluid puff based source includes the two micro scale fluid supplies the micro scale fluid supply can inject a second puff of fluid between the anode and the cathode within the chamber . Further the micro scale fluid supply can shape the second puff of fluid. Moreover the fluid puffs can intersect within the chamber to provide the quasispherical density profile e.g. within a volume at which two puffs of fluid intersect . The micro scale fluid supply can be embedded in the anode or the cathode for example e.g. the micro scale fluid supplies can both be embedded in the anode or the micro scale fluid supplies can both be embedded in the cathode .

The micro fluid puff based source further includes a pulsed power source coupled to the anode and the cathode of the diode . The pulsed power source can apply a voltage across the anode and the cathode to cause compression of the puff of fluid supplied by the micro scale fluid supply to form a plasma. Further if the micro fluid puff based source includes the two micro scale fluid supplies then the pulsed power source can apply the voltage across the anode and the cathode to cause compression of the first puff of fluid injected by the micro scale fluid supply and the second puff of fluid injected by the micro scale fluid supply to form a plasma.

In accordance with embodiments where the micro fluid puff based source includes the two micro scale fluid supplies various respective orientations of the micro scale fluid supplies are contemplated such that fluid puffs injected by the micro scale fluid supplies intersect. For example the micro scale fluid supply and the micro scale fluid supply can be oriented to form an X pinch. According to another example the intersecting fluid puffs from the micro scale fluid supplies can form a Y shaped structure as opposed to the X shaped structure e.g. the X pinch . According to other examples it is contemplated that the micro scale fluid supplies can be configured to provide geometries such as converging pinches annular shells or the like. Alternatively according to embodiments where the micro fluid puff based source includes one micro scale fluid supply e.g. the micro scale fluid supply the micro scale fluid supply can be oriented to form a Z pinch.

The plasma generated by the micro fluid puff based source can emit neutrons according to various embodiments. In accordance with other embodiments the plasma generated by the micro fluid puff based source can emit x rays or energetic particles. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to emission of neutrons x rays or energetic particles. Moreover while many of the examples set forth herein pertain to neutron emission it is contemplated that such examples can be extended to x ray emission or the like.

The micro fluid puff based source can provide short pulses on a nanosecond scale with higher yields per unit stored energy than conventional beam target or plasma generators in small devices. The micro fluid puff based source can provide nominally intense neutron bursts e.g. yields of 10 5 to 10 11 neutrons per pulse on the order of a nanosecond in a compact package. According to an example a pulse width of the neutrons emitted by the plasma generated by the micro fluid puff based source can be between one nanosecond and one hundred nanoseconds. Pursuant to another example a pulse width of the neutrons emitted by the plasma generated by the micro fluid puff based source can be between one nanosecond and ten nanoseconds. By way of a further example the pulse width of the neutrons emitted by the plasma generated by the micro fluid puff based source can be less than one nanosecond. In accordance with another example a compressed spot size of the plasma generated by the micro fluid puff based source can be between 1 micron and 100 microns however it is contemplated that for various applications e.g. fusion power the compressed spot size of the plasma may be greater than 100 microns. Moreover the micro fluid puff based source can operate at a rate on the order of kilohertz for example. It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples.

The micro fluid puff based source can provide increased production efficiency of neutrons compared to conventional beam target or other plasma generation techniques. Hence increased production of neutrons produced versus stored energy e.g. volume of the supply can result. Moreover due to narrow pulse widths time of flight measurements can be enhanced using the micro fluid puff based source . Further due to being manufactured in MEMS and employing repetitive puffs of gas or liquid the micro fluid puff based source can be robust and long lived e.g. since plasma is not created from solid surfaces as compared to techniques that use cryogenic wires or solid targets etc. .

The micro fluid puff based source can provide a bright energy efficient compact neutron source. Moreover the neutron source can be pulsed at a high rate e.g. on the order of kilohertz . Further the micro fluid puff based source can be associated with low gamma production since such device can have low impedance. For instance the micro fluid puff based source can be a lower voltage plasma generator as compared to conventional bright plasma sources.

It is contemplated that the micro fluid puff based source can be utilized for various applications. For example the micro fluid puff based source can be utilized for imaging performed by time of flight resolution. Following this example energy spectral interpretation can be obtained with a few point detectors located at multiple locations which can provide a three dimensional point spread function e.g. image without an imaging array of sensors or pixels. Further the micro fluid puff based source can be compatible with point source irradiation and triangulation of time of flight histories of a source transmitted scattered and reacting particles. According to yet another example the micro pinch gas or liquid puff or jet based source can be utilized as a source for extreme ultraviolet lithography EUVL . Following the foregoing example the micro fluid puff based source can be an x ray source yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. The micro fluid puff based source can be used as a source for EUVL for instance if combined with a magnetic mirror or electrostatic deflection. By way of yet a further example the micro fluid puff based source can be used as a portable scale neutron source for characterizing industrial systems e.g. turbine blades in motion oil well logging tunnel imaging mine detection state of health machinery monitoring etc. and the like. In accordance with another example the micro fluid puff based source can be employed to create fusion power e.g. since a magnetic field created can confine fusion particle ash etc. .

Now turning to illustrated is the micro scale fluid supply of the micro fluid puff based source of . The micro scale fluid supply includes a fluid plenum that houses a fluid at an input pressure. For example the fluid plenum can be a gas plenum that houses a gas at the input pressure as describe in connection with many of the following examples yet it is also contemplated that the fluid plenum can be a liquid plenum that houses a liquid. Moreover the micro scale fluid supply includes a valve coupled to the fluid plenum . The micro scale fluid supply further includes a nozzle coupled to the valve . The micro scale fluid supply can inject a puff of gas or liquid between the anode and the cathode within the chamber by opening the valve to allow the gas or liquid from the fluid plenum to pass through the valve and the nozzle and flow into the chamber . Further it is contemplated that the micro scale fluid supply of can be substantially similar to the micro scale fluid supply depicted in according to embodiments where the micro fluid puff based source includes the two micro scale fluid supplies .

Properties of the fluid plenum the valve the nozzle and the chamber can control the shape of the puff of gas or puff of liquid injected by the micro scale fluid supply into the chamber to yield the quasispherical density profile within the chamber e.g. whether from a single micro scale fluid supply or more than one micro scale fluid supply . Thus such properties can be set to enable the quasispherical density profile to be formed. While many of the following examples are in the context of retaining and injecting gas it is contemplated that such examples can be extended to retaining and injecting liquid.

The fluid plenum can be a reservoir that has gas retained therein at the input pressure. The input pressure for instance can be a property that affects the shape the puff of gas. By way of example the input pressure within the fluid plenum can be between 1 atmosphere and 100 atmospheres. Further the fluid plenum can be a thin walled structure rather than a thick walled structure due to the small spatial scale and high local material strength.

The valve can be an electrostatically actuated MEMS valve for instance yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. According to various examples the valve can operate up to 1 kHz yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. The valve can be used to feed gas to the nozzle .

Moreover the nozzle can be a MEMS fabricated nozzle however the claimed subject matter is not so limited. A shape of the nozzle can be another property that affects the shape of the puff of gas. For example the nozzle can be a converging diverging nozzle. For instance the nozzle can be fabricated in a silicon on insulator SOI wafer.

Nozzles having various Mach numbers are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. The Mach number is a speed of the gas divided by a speed of sound in the gas. The Mach number is an example of a feature of the nozzle that can impact the shape of the puff of gas. According to various embodiments the nozzle can be a supersonic nozzle and thus can have a Mach number between one and ten. According to other embodiments the nozzle can have a Mach number less than one.

Moreover a nozzle throat area can be small as compared to an exit area of the valve resulting in a high supersonic Mach number at the exit. Alternatively an area ratio e.g. the exit area of the valve to the nozzle throat area can be sufficiently small such that the exit area of the valve is a small contoured pinhole e.g. submicron to a few microns connecting the fluid plenum to the chamber . In this case the exit Mach number is likely to be sonic for a high enough pressure ratio plenum pressure to chamber pressure otherwise it may be subsonic.

According to embodiments where neutrons are generated the gas housed in the fluid plenum and injected into the chamber can be deuterium and or tritium. For example the gas can be pure deuterium gas DD . Pursuant to another example the gas can be 50 deuterium and 50 tritium DT . Thus the repetitively operated valve can selectively control injection of DD gas or DT gas into the chamber where the DD gas or DT gas can form a pinch. By way of illustration modeling can suggest the following. A 10 J at the wall plug pulse can provide greater than 10DT neutrons and 10DD neutrons. At kHz greater than 10and 10neutrons per second can be provided for DT and DD respectively with a 250 micron anode cathode gap. Further a DT gas puff device can provide greater than 10neutrons second with a 100 kW pulse operating at 1 kHz. Accordingly the MEMS approach described herein can provide high pulse rates and yields. Yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing illustration.

Pursuant to embodiments where x rays are generated the gas housed in the fluid plenum and injected into the chamber can be a noble gas e.g. Argon Neon etc. . Similar to above the repetitively operated valve can selectively control injection of the noble gas into the chamber where the noble gas can form a pinch.

According to an example minimizing dead volume can enable pressure in the fluid plenum to be rapidly controlled. Moreover response time can be minimized by incorporating the valve in a nozzle chip. According to an example the valve can be actuated in less than 50 s with a 75 to 100 V actuation signal. Therefore the valve can be opened and flow established prior to the pulsed power source of firing a 10 to 100 ns electrical pulse where such pulse creates the pinch. The valve can then be closed and a vacuum pump can purge the chamber . Firing rates in the millisecond range are possible. Timing of opening the valve can be controlled such that the valve is opened to allow the puff of gas to travel into the chamber without reaching a back wall of the chamber prior to interacting with an electron beam. With a power pulse generated by the pulsed power source timed to fire shortly after opening of the valve the micro scale fluid supply combined with repetitive pulsed power source can provide many pulses from a small system.

By employing a gas puff less damage can result and the micro fluid puff based source can have a longer life as compared to a source that employs solid wires. Moreover valve can provide low adjustable mass loads to vary operation of the micro fluid puff based source .

With reference to illustrated is a micro gas puff based source that generates a micro X pinch as a small scale neutron source. While describes the micro gas puff based source it is contemplated that the following examples can be extended to a micro liquid puff based source or a micro fluid puff based source generally . The micro gas puff based source includes the anode and the cathode e.g. the diode of . The chamber is between the anode and the cathode . The anode and the cathode are separated by an anode cathode AK gap. Moreover the micro gas puff based source includes a MEMS gas supply e.g. the micro scale fluid supply of and a MEMS gas supply e.g. the micro scale fluid supply of oriented to form an X pinch. The MEMS gas supply includes a gas plenum a valve and a nozzle . Similarly the MEMS gas supply includes a gas plenum a valve and a nozzle . The MEMS gas supply injects a gas puff into the chamber and the MEMS gas supply injects a second gas puff into the chamber . The gas puff and a gas puff intersect at an intersection volume where the intersection volume has a quasispherical shape. Moreover the micro gas puff based source further includes the pulsed power supply . While the micro gas puff based source of is described as including the MEMS gas supplies it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the supplies being MEMS devices e.g. instead manufactured using EDM lithographic techniques or other micromachining approaches etc. . Moreover while two MEMS gas supplies are depicted it is contemplated that a single MEMS gas supply can feed both legs of the pinch e.g. the single MEMS gas supply can inject the gas puff and the gas puff .

An initial density jet diameter and density profiles can be coupled to stored pulsed power. For instance a short AK gap can be utilized. Moreover nozzles e.g. the nozzles and with various Mach numbers can be employed for the MEMS gas supplies . For instance a nozzle with a low Mach number can create slower moving gas at higher pressure while offering a less well defined density structure whereas a nozzle with a high Mach number can provide a well defined structure to the gas puff so that the gas does not spray over the chamber . It is contemplated that various parameters can be controlled for the micro gas puff based source . Such parameters include pinch mass density profiles gap configurations input pressure e.g. within the gas plenums and back pressure e.g. within the chamber and the like. Moreover the valves and can open fast e.g. less than one microsecond to provide that the gas does not fill the gap and to allow control over density profiles and current flow.

According to an example the AK gap can be between 100 microns and 1000 microns. Moreover an initial radius of each gas puffs e.g. gas jets can be between 50 microns and 200 microns for example yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. Further the MEMS gas supplies can employ nozzles e.g. the nozzles and having various Mach numbers the Mach numbers can range for instance from 0.5 to 10. However the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In the example depicted in the MEMS gas supplies are embedded in the anode it is to be appreciated however that the MEMS gas supplies can alternatively be embedded in the cathode in disparate embodiments. Moreover it is contemplated that the micro gas puff based source can include insulating structures and or vacuum access. Such insulation can allow for power to flow into the diode across the anode cathode gap and the vacuum can provide that current initiates and flows along an appropriate feature of the gas puff formed by the MEMS gas supplies within the chamber e.g. around the intersection volume having the quasispherical shape .

The micro gas puff based source can provide a microscale X pinch plasma which can supply a high neutron yield per unit stored energy. As stored energy is directly related to a size and mass of a device a high yield stored energy ratio can be desirable. According to an example the plasmas generated by the micro gas puff based source can either be pure deuterium gas DD or 50 deuterium and 50 tritium DT . The MEMS gas supplies can aim and control injection of the puffs of gas into the chamber . The MEMS gas supplies can be timed to inject such puffs of gas across the diode with a fast rising voltage pulse supplied by the pulsed power supply in an X pinch configuration. The micro gas puff based source can provide microscale X pinch plasmas that offer higher yields for smaller drivers as compared to conventional approaches. Accordingly a yield from the micro gas puff based source can be maximized while minimizing energy volume and mass of the system. The X pinch gas puff can provide high temperature and high energy density plasmas for applications such as for example material study the study of plasma stability x ray production phase contrast imaging acceleration of particles in intense fields and the like.

Creating a small bright short pulsed neutron source using an X pinch configuration as shown in can enable measuring a location based on time of flight so that traditional imaging may not be required increasing depth for interpretation in oil well logging and measuring of prompt emission characteristic measurements e.g. such as n gamma etc. in short time frames rather than utilizing signal interrogation. Moreover having a strobed measurement rather than a time exposure can be useful for freezing motion of a moving object and conversely having a moving source to search when looking for landmines. By having a source that is physically small and can repetitively create short bursts of neutrons where the full width at half maximum FWHM e.g. in nanoseconds of the emission is small compared to a travel time of the neutron then a single short pulse method can be used to determine location of reacting materials from time of flight calculations.

Moreover the X pinch configuration as provided by the micro gas puff based source of can increase neutron production efficiency over beam target or other plasma generation approaches conventionally available. For instance such benefit can be in terms of neutrons produced versus stored energy or volume of the power supply system. The plasma source described herein can be small e.g. on the order of microns to millimeters and the hardware can be manufactured in silicon MEMS which can be robust and long lived.

The X pinch created by the micro gas puff based source can use a short squat set of gas puffs. Accordingly fewer molecules are heated when utilizing the configuration as shown in as compared to conventional plasma generation approaches and hence the micro gas puff based source can be more of the efficient for heating plasma as compared to conventional approaches e.g. approaches that employ a long thin wires . By utilizing MEMS two crossing boluses of low density gas can be created in a single highly integrated micro fabricated device using the valve and nozzle configurations described herein. As the gas puffs intersect in the anode cathode gap within the chamber at the intersection volume power can be provided across the pinch by the pulsed power supply which can initiate the X pinch process. The micro nozzles and gas valves described herein can enable the pulsed operation with low mass targets.

The MEMS gas supply and the MEMS gas supply can be positioned such that puff of gas injected by the MEMS gas supply and the puff of gas injected by the MEMS gas supply intersect at approximately halfway between the anode and the cathode within the chamber . Such accuracy can be achieved using submicron to hundreds of micron nozzles e.g. the nozzles and . Submicron and small fractional accuracy in the aiming of the nozzles and can be obtained by microfabrication techniques that rely on high resolution optical e.g. microscope or laser alignment or photolithographically defined features on a wafer. Due to a low density of gas puff jets and exiting the nozzles and and the pulsing of the jets and into the vacuum chamber where the X pinch occurs there is unlikely to be a significant spread of the gas jets and in the distance between the nozzle exit and the pinch intersection e.g. at the intersection volume . Accordingly a precise jet intersection location can be maintained e.g. within a micron . In some cases e.g. very low back pressure significant spreading may occur however this may be an effective plasma neutron or x ray generation operating point.

The central node formed in the micro gas puff based source has a quasispherical nature in the X pinch. The quasispherical feature can enhance the magnetic field characteristics to provide compression dynamics that increase core pressure and temperature. Accordingly advantages in terms of the ability to approach fusion conditions with quasispherical implosions where the target design or density profiles force the shape of an implosion can be provided.

Pinches are Rayleigh Taylor unstable. Creation of m 0 modes in an X pinch can offer an opportunity to create a single Rayleigh Taylor node at a known location or increase a local magnetic field around such node. The nodes can create higher temperatures and densities than randomly seeded and distributed features of the Rayleigh Taylor instability. An energy density and magnetic compression of a mode can provide higher compression and temperatures than obtained by employing the configuration shown in . However the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

With reference to illustrated is an exemplary depiction of evolution of a gas puff X pinch. show five phases in the pinch. illustrates a phase during which cold gas can flow into the chamber from the MEMS gas supplies . Cold gas can flow for a length of time on the order of microseconds. The puff of gas and the puff of gas collide at the intersection volume .

Again reference is made to . The micro gas puff based source can enhance energy provided per atom by employing low mass loads and small stored energies. In contrast conventional approaches oftentimes push for bigger machines and larger energy drivers to provide for higher yield. A temperature of be compressed central core of the X pinch of the micro gas puff based source can be related to an energy provided by the power source. Further the micro gas puff based source can maximize a yield by increasing an energy per unit mass rather than energy in a target.

Further the micro gas puff based source can enable reducing an aspect ratio of the gas puffs and as compared to conventional gas puffs which can enable pinch material to be efficiently heated. Moreover the micro gas puff based source can employ controllable MEMS gas supplies which can enable shaping the gas puffs respectively injected therefrom to tailor density profiles of the gas. Further by employing the MEMS structure the micro gas puff based source can be operated at high repetition rates. Also a pinch axis can be located using lithographic techniques so that the puffs of gas and intersect at the intersection volume by embedding the nozzles within the surfaces of the electrode e.g. the anode or the cathode .

According to an example X pinch neutron brightness from a small gas puff can be estimated from the following equation 

In the foregoing equation dn dt is the brightness or number of neutrons produced per second nis the number density cm of the tritium if a tritium plasma is used and n cm is the number density of the deuterium if deuterium is used. As noted above it is also contemplated that pure DD gas can be used. Example values of the reaction parameter for DD and DT fusion are set forth below.

Further various yields can be provided by such X pinch. As noted above pinch emission times can be on the order of nanoseconds. Further pinch compressed widths can be on the order of microns tens of microns or hundreds of microns.

Moreover although not shown it is contemplated that annular gas density profiles can be utilized for a micro gas puff based source in accordance with an example. Annular gas density profiles can result from use of annular nozzle design. For instance a configuration that includes a nozzle placed inside a surrounding nozzle can create and annular gas flow path. Microscale assembly processes such as various wafer bonding techniques can be used to assemble stacked devices. Another manner by which an annular nozzle flow path can be created can be by use of an etch for the annulus directly into silicon. Following this example a thin support section may be used across the gas flow gap annulus at one or more small sections of a circumference which can be small so as to not affect the gas flow significantly. Annular gas flow may offer better pinch stability earlier in time as well as allow for longer pinch time to build high velocity in the pinch and hence temperature prior to final pinch compression. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing.

Now turning to illustrated is another exemplary micro fluid puff based source that includes a micro scale fluid supply that injects a puff of fluid between an anode and a cathode within a chamber. The micro fluid puff based source includes a single micro scale fluid supply which can be substantially similar to the micro scale fluid supply shown in .

The micro scale fluid supply includes a nozzle that has a Mach number less than one. For example the Mach number of the nozzle of the micro scale fluid supply can be 0.5 yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. By having a low Mach number nozzle the micro scale fluid supply can inject a puff of fluid that has a quasispherical density profile. Accordingly when a voltage is applied across the anode and the cathode a current sheath can be formed.

For small scale nozzles in compressible fluids at low Mach numbers the emission can have a profile similar to an undifferentiated puff of fluid rather than a well defined jet. Accordingly as shown in the pressure fluctuations using such a nozzle design can enable a Z pinch structure rather than an X pinch structure to form a quasispherical pinch similar to the pinch described above with respect to . Thus quasispherical conditions for a pinch formed with a single micro scale fluid supply e.g. the micro scale fluid supply can be provided.

With reference to illustrated are views of another exemplary micro gas puff based source e.g. under various operating conditions and or including differing nozzle designs . Similar to the micro fluid puff based source of the micro gas puff based source includes a single micro scale fluid supply that injects a puff of gas between an anode and a cathode within a chamber. Again the micro scale fluid supply can be substantially similar to the micro scale fluid supply shown in . For instance for compressible flow over and under expanded nozzle conditions can be used and may be optimal for compression as described below.

Depending upon nozzle design and or operating conditions of the nozzle included in the micro scale fluid supply the nozzle can be underexpanded critically expanded or overexpanded. More particularly depicts a puff of gas injected between the anode and the cathode within the chamber by an underexpanded nozzle. depicts a puff of gas injected between the anode and the cathode within the chamber by a critically expanded nozzle. Further depicts a puff of gas injected between the anode and the cathode within the chamber by an overexpanded nozzle.

The underexpanded nozzle shown in and the overexpanded nozzle shown in can generate respective puffs of gas and that have quasispherical density profiles. Accordingly the underexpanded nozzle or the overexpanded nozzle can be utilized to form a Z pinch which can support quasispherical implosion.

With reference to illustrated is an exemplary micro gas puff based source that can emit x rays. The micro gas puff based source can contain injected fast electrons in order to enhance an inner shell line radiation from non thermal electron distributions for instance. Similar to the micro gas puff based source of the micro gas puff based source includes the anode the cathode the chamber and the MEMS gas supplies . Similar to the MEMS gas supplies are oriented to form an X pinch. Moreover it is contemplated that the example shown in can be expanded to a micro fluid puff based source and or a source that includes other micro scale fluid supplies.

The micro gas puff based source can be a small x ray source. Possible uses for the micro gas puff based source include but are not limited to battlefield medicine remote detection of materials hidden from view and so forth. The micro gas puff based source can include a micro scale to meso scale X pinch configured electron beam that is combined with a noble gas e.g. supplied by the MEMS gas supplies or in situ to produce ions. The ions can be used in conjunction with the electron beam to produce x ray radiation. While an X pinch configuration is illustrated it is contemplated that a Z pinch configuration can alternatively be employed.

In the micro gas puff based source a pulsed electron beam can be generated using microfabricated tungsten tips and an accelerating screen which can form the cathode . According to an illustration 1 kV can generate the electrons and an additional 100 kV can accelerate the electrons into the chamber e.g. low pressure chamber that is continuously pumped or pumped in time to the electron beam power supply pulse. The anode for instance can be at 100 kV. The ion source can result from an interaction of electrons with the noble gas e.g. Argon Neon etc. jet supplied at a high Mach number e.g. 10 by nozzles of the MEMS gas supplies . Further the MEMS gas supplies can respectively include valves used to pulse the gas just in time with the electron beam pulsed power supply e.g. pulses on the order of nanoseconds such as ten nanoseconds etc. . Moreover the MEMS gas supplies can respectively include micro to meso scale fabricated converging diverging nozzles which can accelerate the gas jets. The gas jets and electron beams can intersect in a X configuration to produce an X pinch when the ions e.g. generated by electron collision with noble gas molecules and electrons recombine to form a high power short duration pulsed current which in turn can produce x rays. The overall size of the system can be on the order of millimeters and x rays can be generated in all directions from the low pressure cavity that includes the X pinch.

In the exemplary configuration depicted in the electron beams and the gas jets are arranged to face each other in an X at approximately 90 degrees relative to each other. An alternate configuration can involve a system that includes the gas which can be filled and evacuated in synchronization with the electron beam for example. By way of yet another example a single MEMS gas supply can inject a single gas jet and a since electron beam can be employed e.g. Z pinch .

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

