---

title: Methods for detecting and classifying signals transmitted over a radio frequency spectrum
abstract: A method for classifying a signal is disclosed. The method can be used by a station or stations within a network to classify the signal as non-cooperative (NC) or a target signal. The method performs classification over channels within a frequency spectrum. The percentage of power above a first threshold is computed for a channel. Based on the percentage, a signal is classified as a narrowband signal. If the percentage indicates the absence of a narrowband signal, then a lower second threshold is applied to confirm the absence according to the percentage of power above the second threshold. The signal is classified as a narrowband signal or pre-classified as a wideband signal based on the percentage. Pre-classified wideband signals are classified as a wideband NC signal or target signal using spectrum masks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08755754&OS=08755754&RS=08755754
owner: Shared Spectrum Company
number: 08755754
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121024
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 286 745 filed Nov. 1 2011 entitled Methods for Detecting and Classifying Signals Transmitted Over a Radio Frequency Spectrum which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 839 503 filed Aug. 15 2007 entitled Methods for Detecting and Classifying Signals Transmitted Over a Radio Frequency Spectrum the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The work leading to this invention was funded in part by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA grant number FA8750 05 C 0150. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The following is related to detecting and classifying signals on channels within a spectrum of interest and more particularly to performing signal detection and classification based on detector scans.

Wireless networks enable connectivity between different stations nodes and the like. The different stations may reside in different locations and operate on designated frequency channels. The number of channel allocations available depends on the total amount of designated spectrum and spectrum availability.

Some networks are allowed to operate in any channel within the designated frequency spectrums as long as the channel or channels are not being used. Channels occupied by the transmission sources already operating within the designated spectrum range are to be detected and classified by transmitted signal type. Further identification of target signals is required for network setup. The signals other than target signals are referred to as non cooperative NC signals.

Errors in the detection and classification processes result in potential interference with other transmission sources and inefficiencies in target network operations. If a channel is classified incorrectly as having No signal then the station operating in this channel will cause interference with other NC networks or NC transmitters that are not part of the station s network. If the target signal in a channel is misclassified as any other type the network setup or operations will be compromised.

The systems and methods described herein can detect and classify signals with a detector. Using classification algorithms the detector determines whether the signal is present and if a signal is present the type of signal. Thus the detector can be configured to monitor the spectrum over a frequency range of interest for signals of interest which are referred to as target signals. An example target signal is a next generation XG signal. A target signal however is not limited to XG signal and can be any signal of interest of any type.

The methods for detection and classification described herein can be implemented using a cognitive radio. A cognitive radio capable of performing the disclosed methods is described in co pending patent application titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR A COGNITIVE RADIO HAVING ADAPTABLE CHARACTERISTICS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 839 496 filed on Aug. 15 2007 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A station actively participating in a network strives to detect non cooperative signals as early as possible to avoid causing interference with other transmission sources. Further the network should correctly identify a detected signal as a target signal or a non cooperative signal.

The methods and algorithms implemented by the detector perform signal detection and classification based on a number of most recent detector spectrum scans utilizing a multi stage classification procedure using spectrum masks and a multi level threshold structure. The spectrum of interest is sub divided into regions of size equal to the minimum target channel size. These regions also are referred to as channels. The channels may be contiguous.

The detection and classification of potential signals are performed in stages on a channel by channel basis. A first stage detects narrow band signals defined as signal bandwidths less than the minimum target signal bandwidth based on the spectrum power profile computed using the last detector scan. A second stage executes when no narrowband signal is detected using the first stage disclosed above. During the second stage embodiments of the present invention apply max hold power spectrums computed using a number of spectrum power profiles determined using the last multiple number of detector scans. The max hold spectrum power refers to the resulting envelope of the multiple overlaying spectrum power profiles. The second stage classifies signals in channels that have not been filtered out as narrowband channels during the first classification stage as target wideband NC non cooperative or no signals.

In some embodiments a method for classifying a signal within a channel can be performed. The method includes classifying a signal as a narrowband signal by applying a first threshold and a second threshold. The second threshold is lower than the first threshold. The method also includes if the signal is not a narrowband signal classifying the signal as a target signal by applying a mask to the channel to determine a degree of correlation between the mask and the target signal. The method also includes if the signal is not a narrowband or target signal classifying the signal as a wideband signal.

In some embodiments a method for detecting a narrowband signal within a channel is performed. The method includes applying a first threshold to a signal in a channel. The method also includes determining whether the signal is a narrowband signal according to the threshold. The method also includes applying a second threshold to the signal. The method also includes confirming the signal is the narrowband signal according to the second threshold.

In some embodiments a method for detecting a wideband signal within a channel is performed. The method includes applying a first threshold to a signal within the channel. The method also includes determining the signal is a wideband signal according to the first threshold. The method also includes applying a second threshold to the signal if the first threshold indicates that signal is not a wideband signal. The method also includes confirming the signal is not the wideband signal according to the second threshold.

In some embodiments a method for detecting a target signal is performed. The method includes determining whether a signal is a narrowband signal. The method also includes determining whether the signal is a wideband signal if the signal is not the narrowband signal. The method also includes applying a channel mask to the signal if the signal is not the narrowband signal or the wideband signal. The method also includes determining whether the signal is a target signal. The target signal correlates to the channel mask.

In some embodiments detection and classification can be performed by determining the presence of a narrowband signal in at least one channel. Spectrum can be examined on a channel by channel basis. In such embodiments the presence of the signal can be determined by hard limiting spectrum power profile components within the channel using a first narrowband amplitude threshold. Subsequently the narrowband signal presence within a channel is identified by an exclusion based on the comparison of the hard limited spectrum power profile against the narrowest target signal spectrum mask using a minimum bandwidth threshold as test criteria.

The absence of a narrowband signal in a channel is confirmed by repeating the hard limiting step above using a second nmTowband amplitude threshold. The second narrowband amplitude threshold is lower than the first narrowband amplitude threshold. The second hard limited spectrum power profile is then compared to a second threshold using a minimum bandwidth threshold as test criteria to confirm the absence of a narrowband signal. The nanowband signal presence determination classifies narrowband conformant signals as narrowband signals. 

The detection and classification steps also include pre classifying narrowband non conformant signals if any as wideband signal candidates and proceeding with further classification steps disclosed below. A further classification step includes computing an envelope of spectrum power profile across a frequency range of interest using N single scan spectrums power profiles by using data collected during last N detector scans.

Steps for determining the presence of a wideband signal includes hard limiting max hold spectrum power profile components using the first wideband amplitude threshold. The steps also include identifying potential wideband candidates within a channel by exclusion based on the comparison of the hard limited spectrum components computed above against the narrowest target signal spectrum mask using a minimum bandwidth threshold as test criteria.

Additional steps for determining the presence of the wideband signal can include confirming non compliant wideband candidates determined previously by repeating the hard limiting step disclosed above using a second wideband amplitude threshold that is lower than the first threshold disclosed above and comparing the second hard limited spectrum power profile to the narrowest target signal spectrum mask using a minimum bandwidth threshold. The steps also include classifying the resulting wideband nonconformant candidates into a no signal category.

Other steps for classifying a signal includes classifying wideband conformant signals as target signal candidates and proceeding with further classification steps as disclosed below. The following steps for classification include identifying a target signal spanning a single channel using the correlation of the hard limited max hold power spectrum computed using a first wideband amplitude threshold and the narrowest target signal channel mask comprising a target signal spectrum power mask and a guard band mask.

The steps for wideband conformant classification also includes for at least one target signal type spanning multiple channels identifying target signals of a type using multi channel segments of the max hold power spectrum computed in the steps disclosed above and the target signal channel masks of the target signal type comprising target signal spectrum profiles and guard bands and classifying target signal conformant signals as target signals of the type given by the matching channel masks. The steps also include classifying target signal non conformant signals as wideband non cooperative signals. 

Both networks and include radios or stations that communicate with each other. For example station transmits and receives signals from stations and . Stations may operate on the same channel so that each station is tuned to the same frequency. Stations comprise network . Station also includes detector that detects and classifies signals

Network includes stations and . Stations transmit and receive signals from each other. Due to the proximity of the networks some signals from network reach stations within network . For example station receives NC signals and . Further NC signals and are not necessarily identical. For example NC signal is a narrowband NC signal and signal is a wideband NC signal. Detector detects and classifies NC signals and

The size of channel is selected to correspond with the size of the smallest target signal. For example if the bandwidth for the smallest target signal is about 1.75 MHz then the bandwidth for channel is about 2 MHz. A larger target signal is about 3.5 MHz so that two 2 MHz channels are occupied by the target signal. Another target signal could be about 7 MHz and occupy four 2 MHz channels.

A detector according to the present invention scans spectrum and measures the energy within a sequence of bins to determine the presence of a potential signal. The size of the bins depends on a desired detector resolution. Energy within a bin such as bin corresponds to the strength of a signal present within the frequency range of the bandwidth of the bin.

As disclosed above the potential target signals are classified into different types of signals such as target signals narrowband NC signals or wideband NC signals or no signal. A potential signal is classified as no signal if the measured signal energy does not meet criteria for classification to the types.

The spectrum of the narrowest target signal is contained within channel . The width of the signal s power spectrum centered in the middle of the channel is narrower than the channel width. The spectrum regions within the channel to the left and to the right of target signal s spectrum are called guard bands.

Other types of signals include NC signals from a non cooperative source such as a station operating in NC network . NC signals can have varying bandwidths and operate within different frequency ranges even within spectrum . Referring to narrowband NC signal within channel indicates a narrowband NC signal having a bandwidth smaller than the minimum bandwidth of the target signal or having spectrum mask different from target signal. Narrowband relates to the bandwidth of the signal to detect relative to the bandwidth of the smallest target signal and not to the NC signal itself. Multiple narrowband NC signals may occupy channel .

Wideband NC signal represents a wideband NC signal that occupies a portion of spectrum occupying or spanning more than one channel. For example signal occupies spectrum over channels and . According to the disclosed embodiments if a signal is not determined to be a target signal a narrowband NC signal or no signal then the signal is classified as a wideband NC signal. Referring back to detector implements an algorithm to detect and classify signals based on their power spectrum profile.

FIGS. and A C depict flowcharts for detecting and classifying a signal according to the disclosed embodiments. The steps disclosed by the flowchart may be implemented as steps within a program executable on a processor and stored on a computer readable medium. The steps may be executed by detector and or station disclosed above. Further the steps disclosed below are general in nature such that variations may be made that are within the scope of the present invention.

Referring to step executes by providing a channel map for the spectrum of interest such as spectrum . Step executes by generating the last detector scan and an array of scans of the spectrum. The array of scans may be any number of scans performed by a detector over a period of time.

Step executes by channelizing the spectrum scan. In other words the scan of the spectrum of interest is broken into channels having a predetermined bandwidth and frequency boundaries. For example if a channel has a 2 MHz bandwidth then the spectrum may be channelized into 2 MHz channels centered around frequency fc 2 n 1 MHz where n is positive integer for analysis. Channels can be overlapping in frequency with multiple successive channels. Step executes by looping to the next channel within spectrum .

Steps to disclose the analysis and processes executed for each channel. After each channel the flowchart of returns to step except for the last channel. Thus step executes by determining a narrowband NB signal presence within the channel. This step is disclosed in greater detail by . Step executes by determining whether a narrowband signal is detected within the channel. If a narrowband signal is present then it should occupy a fraction of the channel. If yes then step executes by declaring the signal detected within a channel as narrowband non cooperative signal.

If step is no then step executes by declaring the channel to be a candidate to have a wideband WB signal. Step executes by computing the max hold power spectrum across the spectrum. The computation uses data of signal power levels collected during a number of detectors scans. Thus the max hold is a representation of spectrum as measured. Because multipath and fading channel properties may change from scan to scan the overlaying of several scans allows the resultant representation to have a more precise picture of signals and power levels within a channel.

Step executes by determining wideband signal presence in the channel. This step is disclosed in greater detail by . Step executes by determining whether a wideband signal is present within the channel. If no then step executes by declaring no signal is within the channel.

If yes then step executes by determining target signal presence within the channel. Before declaring a wideband signal presence the disclosed embodiments confirm the detected signal is not a target signal. This step is disclosed in greater detail by . Step executes by determining whether a target signal is present within the channel.

If yes then step executes by declaring the detection of a target signal in the channel. Various types of target signals may be present so the disclosed embodiments also determining the type of target signal. If no then step executes by declaring the signal detected in the channel as wideband non cooperative signal. Step executes by determining whether another channel is left to analyze in spectrum . If not then step executes by ending the flowchart. If yes then the flowchart goes back to step and loops to the next channel.

A graph can depict signal spectrum power over a frequency range or spectrum. The vertical axis of the graph shows the s power P while the horizontal axis shows the frequency f . Other channels also may be within the spectrum.

Two NC signals occupy the channel and are centered on frequencies f and f respectively. A threshold T designates the power level needed for detection of signal within channel . Power levels above threshold T indicate the presence of a signal. The bandwidth of NB signals is less than the smallest bandwidth of target signal as spectrum mask M.

Returning to step executes by indicating step has been accessed. Thus a narrowband presence determination is to be performed. Step executes by applying threshold T to the channel. Step hard limits any signals within the channel with threshold T. Step executes by applying mask M to the hard limited channel spectrum.

Step executes by determining whether any narrowband NC signals were detected in the channel. A narrowband NC signal is detected based on degree of correlation of the channel power spectrum hard limited using threshold T and the target signal mask M. If yes then step executes to confirming the presence of the narrowband signal. The confirmation prevents a potential misclassification if parts of a wideband or target signal are above threshold T. The parts of the signal above threshold T may appear as narrowband signals. Confirmation is performed by applying another threshold and same mask so that misclassifications are prevented.

Similar to step step executes by applying a second threshold T to confirm the presence of a narrowband signal. The second threshold T however is lower than the first threshold T in order to detect weaker target signal. The confirmation prevents the potential misclassification when parts of the target signal are above the first threshold. Step executes by applying mask M as before to the power spectrum hard limited using threshold T.

Another graph can be described for a signal found using threshold T having a vertical axis for power P and a horizontal axis for frequency f . The frequency axis includes channel between frequencies f and f. A target signal occurs in channel . The target signal includes peaks having power levels above threshold T. Hard limiting the signal using threshold T makes the signal appear as three narrowband signals because a small fraction of its spectrum components exceeds the threshold T.

Thus the threshold is lowered to threshold T. Threshold T is placed at a power level lower than threshold T. For example threshold T may be a percentage reduction in power from threshold T. Alternatively threshold T is set at a fixed value lower than threshold T. Applying threshold T the percentage of signal power above the threshold shows that the target signal is not a narrowband signal. Thus the target signal will not be misclassified as a narrowband signal.

Referring back to step executes by determining whether the signal or signals in the channel pass the criteria for a narrowband signal in view of threshold T. As before signal is classified as narrowband signal based on degree of correlation between the hard limited signal spectrum and mask M. If signal is not classified as narrowband then step is executed by returning to the flowchart of and going to step . The signal detected in the channel is declared a wideband candidate signal and undergoes additional analysis prior to classification. If yes then step is executed by returning the flowchart of and going to step . The signal or signals detected in the channel are declared narrowband NC signals as a result of passing mask correlation tests using thresholds T and T.

Thus the flowchart of serves to disclose a method or process for excluding narrowband NC signals from further classification analysis. If the detected signal is not a narrowband signal then additional steps are taken before classification of the signal.

Step executes by applying a channel mask to the max hold power spectrum. A high degree of correlation between the measured channel spectrum power and the channel mask indicates a high probability of the desired signal. In other words the degree of matching the measured spectrum to the channel mask is used to determine if a target signal is present.

Referring to graph shows the measured spectrum power over a frequency spectrum. Power P is shown on the vertical axis and frequency f is shown on the horizontal axis. Signal occurs within channel . Signal has been determined to not be a narrowband signal by the disclosed process and may be classified as a target signal wideband signal or noise no signal . In classifying signal the channel spectrum power is hard limited using threshold T.

The hard limited spectrum is correlated with a channel mask for further signal classification. The threshold value impacts the shape of the hard limited channel spectrum profile and thus the correlation output. shows three examples of a signal within channel to illustrate how threshold value affects the classification.

Referring to thresholds T and T are applied much like thresholds T and T disclosed above. Threshold T is set lower than threshold T to detect weaker signals.

Example 1 shows a target signal and its relation to thresholds T and T. Example 2 shows a signal that would be misclassified as noise when threshold T is applied. When spectrum in Example 2 is hard limited using threshold T it will poorly correlate with the channel mask resulting in noise classification. Using the lower threshold value T would yield the proper representation of the channel spectrum by its hard limited replica resulting in high correlation of channel spectrum with channel mask. Misclassification therefore is avoided when threshold T is applied. Therefore in example 2 threshold T would improperly classify target signal as noise while threshold T would prevent misclassification.

Example 3 of shows a different scenario where a target signal is within channel . This example illustrates when signal is emitted by a nearby transmitter yielding significant energy in the adjacent spectrum. In this example using threshold T would result in an accurate representation of channel spectrum while using threshold T will obscure the guard bands leading to misclassification of target signal as a wideband signal takes up most of the channel.

Step executes by determining whether the signal is classified as a wideband signal according to the results generated from applying threshold T and the appropriate mask. If yes then step is executed. If not then step executes by applying a lower threshold T to ensure that a wideband signal in channel is not misclassified as no signal. 

Step executes by applying a channel mask as disclosed above again to determine the correlation between the appropriate mask and the detected power in the channel. Step executes by determining whether the pre classified wideband signals classified as a wideband signal according to the results generated from applying threshold T and the appropriate mask.

Step is similar to step except the percentage of signal power in the spectrum or channel above threshold T should be different if a signal is present. If no then step executes by classifying the power within the channel as noise or no signal and goes to step in . If step is yes then step executes by determining the presence of a wideband or target signal in the channel and goes to step in .

Step executes by selecting a target signal channel mask from a plurality of target signal channel masks. The target signal channel masks correspond to the different types of target signals that might be found operating in the channel. For example referring to mask M is a target signal channel mask for a 1.75 MHz target signal. Step executes by applying the target signal channel mask to the signal determined in step to be within the channel.

Step executes by determining the degree of correlation between the signal in the channel and the target signal channel mask. The area of the mask is compared to the signal determined in step to be within the channel as well as mean and variance of the signal and mask. Peak to mean ratio proximity to noise floor as well as other parameters playa part in the decision process Those parts of the mask that correspond to signal power in the channel signify the degree of a correlation. A high degree of correlation indicates a strong probability that the signal corresponding to the target signal channel mask is present.

Step executes by applying some or all of the available masks to the signal determined in step to be within the channel and returning to step . Step executes by determining whether the applied mask matches the signal to a degree that indicates how the signal should be classified. In other words step determines whether the degree of correlation between the applied mask and signal power is great enough to classify the signal as the type of signal associated with the mask. If the degree of correlation indicates a match then step executes by classifying the signal as the signal type exemplified by the applied mask and going to step in the flowchart of . If the degree of correlation does not indicate a match then the signal is classified as a wideband NC signal and at step processing continues to step in . Thus at the end of the flowcharts a detected potential signal is classified as a narrowband or wideband NC signal a no signal or a target signal of a certain type.

Systems and methods for detecting and classifying denial of service DoS attacker in a dynamic spectrum access radio are described below. The systems and methods described below can be used for detection identification and classification of the denial of service DoS attacker who seeks to introduce interference into dynamic spectrum access radio communications. Using classification algorithms the method determines whether the DoS attacker is present and if an attacker is present the type of attacker.

Thus the method monitors in some embodiments continuously the interference level over a frequency range of interest for target signals. The methods and algorithms implemented by the method perform DoS attacker detection and classification based on a number of recent detector spectrum scans as well as collected and stored spectrum history data. Parameters used in the detection process can include a target radio s statistics relating to signal to noise ratio SNR receiver signal power level bit error rate HER and others.

A method for classifying a DoS attacker is described below. The method includes using a collected spectrum statistics database to identify the DoS attacker. The detection and classification of potential DoS attackers can be performed in stages. A first stage monitors in some embodiments continuously a target radio s statistical data for a potential presence of DoS attacker. A potential for presence of the DoS attacker exists if target radio s bit error rate BER and other communication quality parameters are greater than those under normal mode of operation even though signal to noise ratio SNR and power level received from other target radios are sufficient for normal operation.

A second stage executes when potential DoS attacker is detected using the first stage disclosed above. During the second stage in some embodiments the previously described statistical database is used to confirm the presence of the DoS attacker as well as to classify the DoS attacker.

The DoS attacker can be classified into three categories active re active and static. For the purposes of classification it is assumed that an active DoS attacker introduces large amounts of interference randomly over large parts of spectrum and executes a DoS attack by virtue of introducing interference over as much continuously varying parts of spectrum as possible. For the purposes of classification it is assumed that a re active DoS attacker intelligently introduces interference only in parts of spectrum occupied by target signals and executes DoS attack by virtue of identifying and following its target signal. For the purposes of classification it is assumed that a static DoS attacker introduces interference only in pre defined static parts of spectrum.

In order to assist in detection and identification of a potential active or static DoS attacker the target radio continuously or periodically maintains a database of spectrum history and statistics. The method can be configured to maintain and stores such spectrum statistics as signal occupancy information and detected power level as well as other statistical data on a per channel basis.

In order to confirm and classify an active DoS attacker the second stage analyzes the spectrum statistics collected in the previously described spectrum database. In order for a DoS attacker to be confirmed and classified as active DoS attacker large amounts of interference must be present over large varying parts of spectrum.

In order to confirm and classify a static DoS attacker the second stage analyzes the spectrum statistics collected in the previously mentioned spectrum database. In order for a DoS attacker to be confirmed and classified as static DoS attacker large amounts of interference must be present over static parts of spectrum. The algorithm looks for a degree of correlation among the spectrum data samples inside the spectrum database.

In order to assist in detection and identification of a potential re active DoS attacker the target radio maintains a database of how often it has been forced to change frequency of operation and re establish connection with other target radios due to poor network operation and connectivity. At the same time the radio continues to monitor the frequencies from which it has been forced to move in order to validate whether the introduced interference is actually a useful radio system or an attempted DoS attack.

In order to confirm and classify a re active DoS attacker the second stage analyzes the spectrum statistics collected in the above mentioned spectrum database. As described in the definition of a re active DoS attacker above in order for a DoS attacker to be confirmed and classified as re active DoS attacker a number of connection reestablishment attempts must be present. This signals that a DoS attacker is following the target signal and attempts to introduce interference.

Many specific details of certain embodiments of the invention are set forth in the description and in to provide a thorough understanding of these embodiments. A person skilled in the art however will understand that the invention may be practiced without several of these details or additional details can be added to the invention. Well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the invention. As used herein one or more components coupled to each other can be coupled directly i.e. no other components are between the coupled components or indirectly i.e. one or more other components can be placed between the coupled components .

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in sel les these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined or altered to provide further embodiments.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein.

The terminology used in the Detailed Description is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Certain terms may even be emphasized however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

