---

title: Anti-inflammatory, radioprotective, and longevity enhancing capabilities of ceriumoxide nanoparticles
abstract: The present invention provides cerium oxide nanoparticles for use both in therapeutic compositions in vivo and in research in vitro. The cerium oxide nanoparticles are of known range of sizes having biological properties that are reproducible and beneficial. Pharmaceutical and other compositions are provided, as are methods of treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08747907&OS=08747907&RS=08747907
owner: 
number: 08747907
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120702
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 993 260 filed Mar. 4 2010 now abandoned which is a U.S. National Stage Application of PCT US2006 024963 filed Jun. 27 2006 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 693 930 filed Jun. 27 2005. This application incorporates the above identified applications herein by reference in their entirety and claims priority to all aforementioned applications for all purposes.

This invention was made partially with U.S. Government support from the United States National Institutes of Health under Contract No. NS40490 National. Institute of Neurological Disorders Stroke and AG022617 National Institute on Aging . The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the field of medicine and treatment of medically relevant diseases disorders and complications of injury inflammation and aging More specifically the invention relates to the use of nanoparticles to treat subjects suffering from various diseases disorders and complications due to injury inflammation radiation exposure and aging.

Many approaches have been taken to treat either therapeutically or prophylactically diseases disorders and other medically important conditions that have as a major component cell injury or death due to free radicals such as oxygen radicals. Among those approaches were the use of free radical scavengers such as Vitamin E and its related compounds Vitamin C and its related compounds and melatonin to name a few. While beneficial effects of these compounds has been noted researchers and clinicians continue to search for compounds with higher activities and half lives.

In early experiments performed by the present inventors and their colleagues cerium oxide nanoparticles prepared by a sol gel process were utilized to enhance cell longevity. The cerium oxide nanoparticles were proposed to act as free radical scavengers to bring about the observed results. However the sol gel process posed several difficulties. For example particle size was not well controlled within the reported 2 10 nm range making variability between batches high. That is the process while satisfactory for producing nanoparticles with free radical scavenging activity did not reproducibly produce particles of a specific size range. Thus each batch of particles needed to be tested to confirm the size range and the suitability of the batch for use. In addition the process resulted in tailing of surfactants used in the process into the final product. The presence of these surfactants produced biological difficulties when used primarily due to the toxicity of the surfactants in the product. Furthermore the inability to control the amount of surfactant tailing posed problems with agglomeration when nanoparticles were placed in biological media. These difficulties reduced particle efficacy and biological deliverability. Removal of surfactant after sol gel synthesis produced particles that appeared prone to agglomeration in biological media and had a lack of biological effects. Further difficulties were encountered with changes in valence state of cerium associated with these particles causing alterations in the ratio of valence states of cerium 3 4 that occurred over time particularly when particles were placed in biological media. It is possible that the 3 4 ratio of valence states in the nanoparticles might alter free radical scavenging and cellular delivery including delivery in vivo.

Thus while the previous solution to use nanoparticles as free radical scavengers was effective it was highly variable from batch to batch. Therefore a need in the art still exists for unproved nanoparticles and methods of use of those particles to treat various diseases and disorders involving production of oxygen radicals and other radicals.

The present invention addresses this need in the art by providing a method for the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in health. As a general matter the method extends the life of a living cell by exposing the cell to cerium oxide nanoparticles. This exposure reduces or eliminates damage to the cell caused by endogenous and exogenous free radicals. The cerium oxide nanoparticles can be exposed to the cell before during or after free radical image.

Broadly speaking the present invention provides a method of treating at least one cell with cerium oxide particles. The method generally comprises contacting at least one cell with an amount of cerium oxide nanoparticles that reduces or eliminates damage caused by free radicals. The method can be practiced in vivo as either a therapeutic method of treating a disease or disorder involving free radicals or as a prophylactic method to prevent free radical damage. Likewise the method can be practiced in vitro as a research tool to study the effects of free radicals on cells or the effects of combinations of nanoparticles with drugs on cells. In preferred embodiments the method is practiced with size limited cerium oxide nanoparticles made by a method other than a sol gel method. The method can also be practiced ex vivo or in vitro for therapeutic or research purposes.

The present invention provides methods of treating individuals suffering from or suspected of suffering from a disease or disorder involving free radicals such as oxygen radicals. It likewise provides methods of treating individuals suffering from or suspected of suffering from a complication of an injury that results from free radicals such as oxygen radicals or results in the production of free radicals such as oxygen radicals. In general the methods of the invention comprise administering to an individual used interchangeably herein with subject and patient an amount of cerium oxide nanoparticles sufficient to reduce or eliminate cell tissue or organ damage in the individual that is caused by free radicals. Thus the invention encompasses the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in enhancement of cell and organism longevity reduction of inflammation and inflammatory disorders reduction in tissue damage due to inflammatory disorders and reduction in radiation injury.

In a further aspect cerium oxide nanoparticles and compositions comprising cerium oxide nanoparticles are provided. The cerium oxide nanoparticles are size limited and provided in an amount sufficient to provide one or more doses to a subject in need of or suspected of being in need of treatment for a disease or disorder involving free radicals. Compositions may comprise cerium oxide particles of the invention along with one or more other substances which are typically substances that are biologically tolerable in that they may be exposed to living cells without killing the cells. In embodiments the other substances are pharmaceutically acceptable substances.

Certain aspects of the invention provide for the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in the treatment of diseases and disorders associated with free radicals such as oxygen free radicals. The use is in particular for in vivo therapeutic or prophylactic methods of protecting cells from free radical damage. Certain other aspects of the invention provide for the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in the preparation of compositions for medical use such as pharmaceutical or therapeutic compositions.

Another aspect of the invention provides a container containing cerium oxide nanoparticles. In general a container according to the invention contains a sufficient amount of size limited cerium oxide nanoparticles made by a method other than a sol gel method to provide at least one dose of cerium oxide to a subject suffering from or at risk of suffering from a disease or disorder involving free radicals such as oxygen radicals. In certain embodiments the container is provided in a package with one or more other containers and or with one or more articles of manufacture or devices having use in delivery of substances to subjects e.g. syringes needles antiseptic swabs . In some embodiments kits comprising one or more containers are provided. In some kits single dose amounts of cerium oxide particles are provided. In some embodiments the single dose is 1 ng to 100 mg per kg weight of subject.

Reference will now be wide in detail to various exemplary embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The following detailed description is provided to give details on certain embodiments of the invention and should not be understood as a limitation on the full scope of the invention.

A present inventor and her colleagues previously developed cerium oxide nanoparticles for treatment of various diseases and disorders which was disclosed in U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 408 275 and in a U.S. non provisional patent application filed on 4 Sep. 2003 under Ser. No. 10 655 143 the entire disclosures of both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. To address the shortcomings of prior attempts to develop cerium oxide nanoparticles for use in treating damage caused by free radicals different methods of synthesizing nanoparticles and thus different nanoparticles were investigated. Efforts were directed toward examining the biological efficacy of commercially available cerium oxide nanoparticles prepared by existing manufacturing processes. These included cerium oxide nanoparticles available from Nanophase Technologies Corporation Romeoville Ill. Advanced Powder Technology Pty Ltd. Welshpool Western Australia and NanoScale Materials Inc. Manhattan Kans. . In summary in a series of experiments it was found that cerium oxide nanoparticles produced by Nanophase Technology Corporation using specific patented mechanisms of synthesis provided consistently reproducibly sized nanoparticles that consistently showed high levels of biological activity. With sizes of 20 nm and below particles readily entered cells and reduced free radical mediated damage. Synthesis for these particles has been described in the following patents the disclosures of the entireties of all of which are incorporated herein by reference U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 669 823 5 460 701 5 514 349 5 874 684 Japanese Patents JP2980987 and JP3383608 European Patent EP0711217B1 German Patent DE69426886 French Patent FR94922757 Great Britain Patent GB94922757 and Australian Patent AU068582882.

It was surprisingly found that the new source of cerium oxide nanoparticles as compared to those of the inventor s prior invention provided superior reproducibility of activity from batch to batch and showed lower toxicity to mammalian cells. It was determined that the cerium oxide nanoparticles used in the present invention were different from the prior nanoparticles in quality and size distribution factors that significantly contribute to their improved characteristics in treating subjects according to the methods of the invention. In developing the invention it was determined that regardless of source cerium oxide particles having a small size narrow size distribution and low agglomeration rate are most advantageous. Also for delivery the nanoparticles are advantageously in a non agglomerated form. To accomplish this stock solutions of about 10 by weight can be sonicated in ultra high purity water 16 megaohms or in normal saline prepared with ultra high purity water. These nanoparticles are superior to previously developed cerium oxide nanoparticles for treatment of and protection against damage caused by free radicals. This new and useful improvement allows cerium oxide nanoparticles to be used in extending the life of a cell in vivo as well as in vitro. In particular it is shown herein the novel finding that cerium oxide nanoparticles of a defined size range and distribution and made by a method other than sol gel synthesis increase the lifespan of cells such as cells of an organism in vivo. Also shown is that cerium oxide nanoparticles enhance the lifespan of mammalian cells in culture and in vivo act as potent free radical scavengers and possess significant anti inflammatory and radioprotective properties in vivo.

While not wishing to be limited to any single method of action it is thought that cerium oxide nanoparticles have a unique oxide lattice and valence structure that might confer them with the ability to scavenge detoxify intracellular free radicals and might thus convey their anti inflammatory radioprotective and longevity enhancing properties. Further the data obtained by the inventors and provided herein suggests that the valence and oxygen lattice structure conveys the ability of cerium oxide nanoparticles to regenerate a biologically active matrix after a free radical scavenging event. This allows small single doses of nanoparticles to remain active within the cell for long periods of time conveying regenerative biological effects. In contrast most commonly available free radical scavengers such as vitamin E nitrosone compounds and vitamin C are inactivated by alteration of their chemical structure after scavenging a single free radical. This loss of structure limits their pharmacological efficacy and requires high dosing regimens.

It appears that the regenerative activity of the cerium oxide nanoparticles may be dependent on a well known oscillating chemical phenomenon known as the Belousov Zhabotinsky B Z reaction in which cerium oxide serves to facilitate oscillation of electrons or free radicals from one compound to another. Cerium in the nanoparticles exists in two valence states 3 and 4. Adequate propagation of B Z requires a specific ratio of Ce 3 to 4 in the nanoparticles. If the composition changes to have too much 3 cerium the reaction will not propagate. Research has shown that as the cerium oxide nanoparticle size is reduced from 30 nm to 3 nm lattice strain in the nanoparticles causes more cerium to be in the 3 state. Although this mechanism has only been studied in vitro up to now this mechanism of action may also be true in vivo and would provide a significant advantage to using larger sizes of cerium oxide nanoparticles.

Broadly speaking the present invention provides a method of treating at least one cell with cerium oxide particles. The method generally comprises contacting at least one cell with an amount of cerium oxide nanoparticles that reduces or eliminates damage caused by free radicals which are unstable highly reactive molecules such as nitric oxide superoxide hydroxyl radicals peroxynitrite and other unstable reactive compound formed from the above. They cause aging and various diseases by taking electrons from other molecules in the body a process that causes cell or oxidative damage. As used herein cell or oxidative damage has the same meaning as oxidative stress.

Contacting means any action that results in at least one cerium oxide nanoparticle physically contacting at least one cell. It thus may comprise exposing the cell s to cerium oxide nanoparticles in an amount sufficient to result in contact of at least one cerium oxide nanoparticle with at least one cell. The method can be practiced in vivo in which ease contacting means exposing at least one cell in a subject to at least one cerium oxide nanoparticle. According to the invention contacting thus may comprise exposing at least one cell to at least one cerium oxide particles such as for example by administering cerium oxide particles to a subject via any suitable route. It also may comprise exposing cells in vitro or ex vivo by introducing and preferably mixing cerium oxide particles and cells in a controlled environment such as a culture dish or tube. Optionally where practiced in vitro or ex vivo some or all of the cerium oxide particles that are not taken up or adsorbed by cells are removed for example by washing the cells in suitable media buffer water etc. According to the invention contacting may comprise introducing exposing etc. the cerium oxide particles at a site distant to the cells to be contacted and allowing the bodily functions of the subject or natural e.g. diffusion or man induced e.g. swirling movements of fluids to result in contact of the nanoparticle s and cell s . Where practiced ex vivo the cells may also be re introduced into a subject preferably the subject from which they were originally obtained. In one embodiment this includes putting the particles into a gel or other packet that limits diffusion followed by implanting it into a body area such as a knee joint.

According to the method of the invention the subject individual or patient can be any organism to whom the cerium oxide nanoparticles are administered. Thus the subject may be a human or a non human animal such as another mammal including but not limited to a rodent e.g. mouse rat rabbit a canine e.g. a dog a feline e.g. a cat an equine e.g. a horse an ovine e.g. a sheep an orcine e.g. a pig or a bovine e.g. a cow or steer . The subject can be any other animal such as a bird reptile amphibian or any other companion or agricultural animal.

The method can be practiced in vivo as either a therapeutic method of treating a disease or disorder involving free radicals or as a prophylactic method to prevent free radical damage. In embodiments where the method is a method of treating e. a therapeutic method the amount is an amount that is effective for reducing or eliminating cell death or dysfunction or tissue or organ damage due to free radicals that are being produce or were produced previously in the subject. The subject individual or patient may be one who is in immediate or apparent need of or suspected of being in need of treatment for a disease or disorder associated with free radicals or it may be one who is in immediate or apparent need of or suspected of being in need of treatment for an injury or other trauma resulting from or known to result in production of free radicals. In such situations where a pre existing condition related to cell tissue or organ damage due to free radicals is evident or suspected the method is a therapeutic method. For example if a subject has had a stroke it may be beneficial to treat the subject with cerium oxide nanoparticles to reduce the effects of the stroke.

In addition according to the methods of the invention the subject individual or patient may be one who is not in or suspected of being in need of treatment of a pre existing disease disorder or injury or trauma. In such situations the method is a prophylactic method. Prophylactic methods are useful in situations where the subject is currently engaged in or soon to be engaged in one or more activities that might result in an injury or trauma. They are also useful in situations where the patient has a likelihood of developing a disease or disorder associated with cell tissue or organ damage due to free radicals. Thus the present methods are useful not only for treating patients with a disease or disorder but for treating patients who are suspected of having a predisposition to a disease or disorder. For example if the family of a subject has been shown to be prone to a certain neurodegenerative disease the subject may be given cerium oxide nanoparticles to avoid or reduce the effects of that disease. Likewise if a subject suspects he will be exposed to high levels of radiation such as a worker in the nuclear energy or weapons industries or a person about to go on a vacation in which he will be exposed to high levels of sunlight and its UV component may be treated with the cerium oxide nanoparticles of the invention. In another example military uniforms including clothes and helmets can be made containing cerium oxide nanoparticles to scavenge free electrons and gamma irradiation for troops exposed to potential radiation.

As another example to compare prophylactic and therapeutic methods in embodiments where the method is a prophylactic method the amount is an amount that is effective in reducing or blocking cell death or dysfunction or tissue or organ damage due to free radicals that might be produced in the subject in the future. For example in a therapeutic method the cerium oxide nanoparticles may be administered to a patient following a head injury to reduce the amount of damage to the brain as a result of the injury. In contrast in a prophylactic method the cerium oxide nanoparticles may be administered to a subject prior to engaging in an activity that has a likelihood of head injury such as a car race or other high speed activity.

The act of administering cerium oxide nanoparticles can be any act that provides the cerium oxide nanoparticles to a subject such that the particles can function for their intended purpose. For example administering can be by injection or infusion. It can thus be an intramuscular intraparatoneal subcutaneous or intrathecal injection or a slow drip or bolus infusion. Other non limiting examples of methods of administration include topical administration such as by way of lotions salves or bandages often on intact skin but also through open wounds lesions or sores. Yet other non limiting examples include administration through mucous membranes such as by way of intranasal administration through inhalation of dry particles or a mist comprising the particles oral ingestion sublingual absorption by subcutaneous means and rectal or vaginal delivery. The vehicle of delivery may be in any suitable form such as the form of an oral solution gel tablet capsule powder suppository infusible losenge cream lotion salve inhalant or injection.

According to embodiments of the method the method can comprise repeating the act of contacting e.g. administering the cerium oxide nanoparticles. In embodiments relating to administering the cerium oxide to subjects repeating the administration can include one or more administrations in addition to the original administration. The amount to be administered to each subject will vary depending on usual factors taken into consideration for dosing of pharmaceuticals such as weight general health and metabolic activities of the patient. Likewise the mode of administration e.g. injection oral administration will be taken into account when determining the proper amount of nanoparticles to administer per dose.

In general a dosing of about 0.01 ng to about 1 g such as about 0.05 ng 0.1 ng 0.5 ng 1 ng 10 ng 50 ng 100 ng 500 ng 1 ug 5 ug 10 ug 50 ug 100 ug 500 ug or 1 g per administration or per kg body mass per administration should be effective in providing the desired therapeutic or prophylactic result. Of course injection or infusion amounts will tend to be on the lower end of the range while oral administration amounts will tend to be on the upper end. Current results suggest that the optimal dose for 20 nm cerium oxide nanoparticles is 10 nM to 1 uM for blood and intracellular fluid levels. However the action of the particles is highly dependent on other variables and so these amounts will vary depending on the surface area the species of the subject the reason for administration etc. Amounts may be higher when the method is practiced in vitro or ex vivo because excess particles may be easily removed at any time by washing etc.

It should be noted that this method shows low toxicity in mammalian cells fruit flies and mice and thus is expected to show low toxicity in other animal cells. This new and useful improvement allows the method of the present invention to be used in subjects with lower toxicity than in previous inventions. This important feature of the present invention means that the cerium oxide nanoparticles can be used in a broad range of applications. In preferred embodiments the cerium oxide nanoparticles do not contain docusate sodium which has been shown to produce toxicity in tissue culture. Also in preferred embodiments there are less than 1 w w or w v of any other contaminating ions metals or other substances which can also cause toxicity to cells.

Although the cerium oxide nanoparticles show very low toxicity in some instances it might be desirable to provide multiple low doses of particles to an individual. In such cases the method may comprise two or more administrations of less than the total effective amount where the amount ultimately administered is an effective amount. Likewise multiple administrations of an effective dose may be desirable where the second or subsequent administration is performed at a time well separated from the first administration. That is because the cerium oxide nanoparticles are highly stable even after being administered repeated administrations of effective doses are envisioned as occurring at widely spaced intervals such as months or years apart.

Furthermore where multiple administrations are performed different modes of administration may be used. For example if two doses are administered one can be an injection whereas the other can be oral. In addition if three or more doses are administered two or more may be by the same mode while the remaining may be from one or more different mode in any combination number and order. Of course where multiple administrations are used each administration may be by a different mode. The mode of administration the number of times it is repeated and the sequence of modes of administration may be selected by those of skill in the art based on numerous considerations and such selection is well within the abilities of those of skill in the art.

The method can also be practiced in vitro which means that contacting at least one cell with at least one cerium oxide nanoparticle can occur in a petri dish a test tube an IV tube or any other container applicable for contacting. When practiced in vitro it may be a method for identifying parameters that are useful in in viva treatment regimens. The method can be practiced to study the effects of combinations of nanoparticles with drugs on cells. For example the cerium oxide nanoparticles can be combined with other known antioxidants such as vitamin E n acetyl cysteine or melatonin. The cerium oxide nanoparticles could also be combined with disease specific drugs. The in vitro methods can also comprise using the cerium oxide nanoparticles as a research tool to observe the effects of free radicals on cells or observe the cells for changes in protein expression cell morphology or any other characteristic of interest.

In preferred embodiments the method is practiced with size limited cerium oxide nanoparticles made by a method other than a sol gel method. The nanoparticles useful in the present invention have pre defined sizes clustered tightly within a range. In general the particles have a size of about 1 nm or less to about 500 nm In embodiments the particles are 11 nm or more. In embodiments where particles are taken into the interior of cells the preferable range of particles that are taken into the cell are from about 11 nm to about 50 nm such as about 20 nm. In embodiments where particles exert their effects on cells from outside of the cells the preferable range of particles that are extracellular are from about 11 nm to about 500 nm. In embodiments the particles are from about 40 nm to about 500 nm. In other embodiments the particles are from about 11 nm to about 40 nm such as from about 11 nm to about 20 nm about 15 nm to about 20 nm about 11 nm to about 15 nm or about 30 nm to 40 nm. Of course any specific size range within these general sizes can be provided the size being selected by the practitioner based on any number of parameters. According to the invention the term about is used to indicate a margin of error for a statistically significant portion of the particles of 10 . Thus particles of a size of 20 nm include those in which a majority of the particles fall within the range of 18 nm to 22 nm. In embodiments 95 of the cerium oxide nanoparticles have a size of between about 15 nm and about 25 nm. In embodiments 95 of the cerium oxide nanoparticles are within 5 of 20 nm. In other embodiments 90 of the cerium oxide nanoparticles have a size of between about 18 nm and about 22 nm.

The present invention provides methods of treating individuals suffering from or suspected of suffering from a disease or disorder involving free radicals such as oxygen radicals. It likewise provides methods of treating individuals suffering from or suspected of suffering from a complication of an injury that results from free radicals such as oxygen radicals or results in the production of free radicals such as oxygen radicals. In general the methods of the invention comprise administering to an individual used interchangeably herein with subject and patient an amount of cerium oxide nanoparticles sufficient to reduce or eliminate cell tissue or organ damage in the individual that is caused by free radicals. Thus the invention encompasses the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in enhancement of cell and organism longevity reduction of inflammation and inflammatory disorders reduction in tissue damage due to inflammatory disorders and reduction in radiation injury.

While the above disclosure discusses administration in vivo it is important to recognize that the present invention also encompasses administering ex vivo. Thus a method according to the invention can comprise removing at least one cell from an organism administering cerium oxide nanoparticles to that cell then returning the cell to its natural environment e.g. into the body of the patient . In such situations the act of administering can be simply exposing the nanoparticles to the cell for example in a culture dish or a tube. In one particular embodiment the method of ex vivo administration comprises obtaining blood from a patient exposing the blood to cerium oxide nanoparticles and returning the treated blood to the patient. The method can comprise separating cerium oxide nanoparticles from the blood prior to returning the blood to the patient.

In one embodiment of the method of the present invention the cerium oxide nanoparticles allow an increase in longevity of prokaryotic cells. For example adding the cerium oxide nanoparticles to a large scale cell culture to allow longer production of overexpressed protein may allow more efficient and cost effective production. Relevant human proteins that could be overexpressed include antibody fragments single domain antibodies and any other protein important in human health including what are presently known as biologicals in the pharmaceutical industry.

In another embodiment the cerium oxide nanoparticles allow an increase in longevity of eukaryotic cells. In one example the nanoparticles could be used to increase the longevity of yeast cell cultures that produce human proteins. Specifically yeast cultures that produce human proteins significant in human health such as protective antigen hepatitis vaccines and malaria antigens could be grown for longer periods of time. Continuous fermentation using immobilized yeast cell bioreactor systems to produce consumable and other products such as beer could also benefit with increased longevity of the yeast cells after addition of cerium oxide nanoparticles. The same effect of the cerium oxide nanoparticles could be used in plant cell cultures such as cultures producing human vaccine antigens or other human proteins. Also mammalian cell cultures that produce recombinant man antibodies and other important proteins for human health could benefit from increased longevity due to the addition of cerium oxide nanoparticles.

In another embodiment the present invention is used to affect either prophylactically or therapeutically cell longevity in organisms. The methods treat or affect either prophylactically or therapeutically diseases or disorders associated with free radicals or cell death or tissue or organ damage due to free radicals. In general the methods comprise administering to a subject an amount of cerium oxide nanoparticles sufficient to reduce eliminate or block cell tissue or organ damage caused by free radicals in the subject.

In one embodiment the cerium oxide nanoparticles can be taken up by the cell. In this case they can act to reduce or eliminate free radicals within the cell. This method can be used for the prevention or treatment of brain disease spinal cord disease or other neurological trauma. This method can also be used for the treatment or prevention of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Huntington s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS multiple sclerosis toxin mediated damage or stroke. This method may be used in the treatment or prevention of cardiovascular disease diabetes diseases of the retina asthma respiratory dysfunctions and allergic or autoimmune diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lupus. It is to be understood that the diseases stated above are only examples and are not to be understood as limiting the invention in anyway.

In another embodiment the cerium oxide nanoparticles are not taken up in any significant amount by the cells but go into intravascular or interstitial spaces. In this embodiment the nanoparticles can act to reduce or eliminate free radicals outside the cell. This can result in reduction of inflammation and inflammatory disorders. The cerium oxide nanoparticles can reduce inflammation systemically throughout a subject s body or locally at the site of the inflammatory cells . The nanoparticles can reduce or eliminate inflammation that leads to preeclampsia or inflammation caused by wounding. This can also reduce or eliminate inflammation caused by the insertion of a medical prosthesis into the subject. Nanoparticles may be retained at particular sites at least substantially retained for periods of time by inclusion of the nanoparticles into compositions such as dissolvable or porous matrices and the like.

The cerium oxide nanoparticles can also contact the surface of the subject s skin and increase cell and organism longevity on the surface of the skin. Skin aging and inflammation of the skin are closely linked. In inflammation there is an increase in neutrophil activity that involves a change in the oxidation state of the cell. Free radicals are generated which activate the chemical mediators of inflammation. In skin aging free radicals are formed from normal metabolism UV irradiation and other environmental factors. The use of cerium oxide nanoparticles on the surface of the skin may prevent aging of the skin or reduce damage already inflicted on the skin. This embodiment may be used in makeup or anti aging lotion. It may be in the form of a cream lotion gel solid stick powder or any other acceptable composition that is known in the art.

The cerium oxide nanoparticles can also be used in protection against forms of radiation such as UV irradiation. It is known in the art that large cerium oxide molecules as well as other oxide molecules such as zinc oxide have the ability to protect a subject s skin from UV irradiation caused by the suds rays. However it has not been shown until now that cerium oxide nanoparticles which enter a cell have protective characteristics against radiation intracellularly. The data presented here shows that cerium oxide nanoparticles can function to protect against forms of radiation such as UV and gamma radiation. The present invention provides a method for protection against other forms of radiation as well such as beta and X ray radiation. It is to be noted that the mode of action of the cerium particles of the present invention differs from the mode of action of larger particles in that the larger particles known in the art act to block reflect etc. UV light from entering cells whereas the nanoparticles of the present invention act at a biochemical level to counteract the effects of the UV light within the cells.

Another embodiment of the invention is prophylactic radioprotection of a subject. For example if a subject requires radiation treatment for cancer some of the normal healthy cells surrounding the cancerous cells will be exposed to the radiation as well. The present invention addresses this problem by providing a method for protecting the normal healthy cells by exposure to the cerium oxide nanoparticles before radiation treatment. In other examples a subject can be exposed to cerium oxide nanoparticles for radioprotection in work environments with high radiation exposure or in military or bioterrorism uses.

In a further aspect cerium oxide nanoparticles and compositions comprising cerium oxide nanoparticles are provided. The cerium oxide nanoparticles are size limited and provided in an amount sufficient to provide one or more doses to a subject in need or suspected of being in need of treatment for a disease or disorder involving free radicals. Compositions may comprise cerium oxide particles of the invention along with one or more other substances which are typically substances that are biologically tolerable in that they may be exposed to living cells without killing the cells. In embodiments the other substances are pharmaceutically acceptable substances. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable substance is intended to include solvents coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents and any other ingredient that is biologically tolerable. Examples of such carriers include but are not limited to water saline dextrose solution human serum albumin liposomes and hydrogels. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art and thus further examples and methods of incorporating each into compositions at effective levels need not be discussed here.

Certain aspects of the invention provide for the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in the treatment of diseases and disorders associated with free radicals such as oxygen free radicals. The use is in particular for in vivo therapeutic or prophylactic methods of protecting cells from free radical damage. Certain other aspects of the invention provide for the use of cerium oxide nanoparticles in the preparation of compositions for medical use such as pharmaceutical or therapeutic compositions. In general use of the particles is in combining them with other substances to make medicinal compositions.

Another aspect of the invention provides a container containing cerium oxide nanoparticles. In general a container according to the invention contains a sufficient amount of size limited cerium oxide nanoparticles made by a method other than a sol gel method to provide at least one dose of cerium oxide to a subject suffering from or at risk of suffering from a disease or disorder involving free radicals such as oxygen radicals. For example the container may contain sufficient cerium oxide nanoparticles and optionally one or more other biologically tolerable substance for one dose to a human or non human animal subject. In certain embodiments the container is provided in a package with one or more other containers and or with one or more articles of manufacture or devices having use in delivery of substances to subjects e.g. syringes needles antiseptic swabs sterile saline solution . In some embodiments kits comprising one or more containers are provided.

Regardless of whether provided alone as part of a composition or as part of a kit the cerium oxide nanoparticles may be provided in any suitable physical form. Thus they may be provided as dry particles or as part of a liquid composition. When part of a liquid composition the composition typically will comprise water or an aqueous buffer such as phosphate buffered saline PBS or other salt buffers. In general it is preferred that the liquid composition be suitable for introduction into a living organism or for contact with a living cell without causing deleterious effects such as cell toxicity. It is to be understood that this general preference permits inclusion of toxic components in the liquid composition as long as those components when exposed to a living cell upon exposure to the cell are present in a non toxic form or at non toxic levels. In embodiments where dry nanoparticles are administered the nanoparticles may be in a purified state or may be in a composition comprising one or more other component. It is preferred that the other component s be non toxic or if toxic present in an amount that when administered is not toxic to the cell or subject as a whole. Examples of non toxic components include but are not limited to salts e.g. sodium salts such as sodium phosphate or sodium chloride sugars e.g. glucose sucrose preservatives and antibiotics anti inflammatories albumin lipids or other drugs. The vehicle of delivery may be in the form of an oral solution gel tablet capsule powder suppository infusible losenge cream salve inhalant or injection.

Typically the particles or composition comprising the particles will be sterile or will have been sterilized prior to administration to a subject or other use. The particles may be sterilized using any suitable technique known in the art including but not limited to heat sterilization filtration and irradiation. Thus in embodiments the method of the invention further comprises providing sterile or sterilized cerium oxide nanoparticles or further comprises sterilizing the nanoparticles prior to administering them to a subject.

The invention provides compositions comprising cerium oxide nanoparticles. The compositions can comprise a pharmaceutically suitable carrier a nutritional supplement or a dietary supplement. While not being so limited typically the compositions comprise one or more other substances other than the nanoparticles where the other substances are biologically tolerable i.e. non toxic or present in an amount that is non toxic . Examples of such substances are well known to those of skill in the art and include without limitation sugars salts lipids drugs excipients carriers flavorants fillers binders gums colorants water buffers detergents biologically active compounds and the like.

The present invention also provides kits. In general the kits comprise cerium oxide nanoparticles in an amount sufficient to treat at least one patient at least one time to reduce or eliminate free radicals that can cause cell tissue or organ damage. Typically the nanoparticles of the kit will be supplied in one or more container each container containing a sufficient amount of nanoparticles for at least one dosing of the patient. The kits can comprise other components such as some or all of the components necessary to practice a method of the invention. For example in embodiments of the kit albumin is included either as a separate component or as part of a composition comprising the nanoparticles. The albumin is provided to lessen the amount or use of disruption of the nanoparticles for example by sonication at 5 20 Hz for 2 minutes that can sometimes be needed to provide certain formulations for delivery. The kits may contain a syringe for administering a dose of the nanoparticles. The kits may also comprise filters for sterilization of the particles prior to delivery however it is preferred that the particles be sterilized prior to packaging in the kits or the entire kit be sterilized after all components are packaged. It may likewise contain sterile water or buffer for rehydration or reconstitution of dry nanoparticles prior to administration of the particles to a patient. In embodiments multiple doses of nanoparticles are provided in the kit either all in a single container e.g. a vial or distributed among two or more containers. As the invention contemplates administering or delivering used synonymously herein of nanoparticles m liposomes kits according to the invention may comprise liposomes particularly liposomes loaded with the nanoparticles.

The invention will be further explained by the following Examples which are intended to be purely exemplary of the invention and should not be considered as limiting the invention in any way.

A single 10 nM dose of cerium oxide nanoparticles extended the life span of cultured rat brain cells neurons astrocytes microglia from 28 to 182 days 6 months . For delivery the nanoparticles were in a non agglomerated form. To accomplish this stock solutions of about 10 by weight were sonicated in ultra high purity water 16 megaohms or in normal saline prepared with ultra high purity water. Stocks were sonicated with a probe sonicator for 3 minutes. Dilutions were made beginning with 10 mM down to 100 nM or lower. No phosphate or other ionic buffers were used because these were found to increase agglomeration. All serial dilutions were sonicated for 3 minutes prior to use or to further dilution. Importantly aged neurons and astrocytes were functionally equivalent to their younger untreated counterparts. Neurotransmission in response to glutamate GABA and acetylcholine in cerium oxide nanoparticle treated aged cultures was similar to younger cultured controls. Further similar doses of cerium oxide nanoparticles administered orally in the food extended the lifespan of the fruit fly 

Given the structure of cerium oxide nanoparticles we hypothesized that cerium oxide nanoparticles promoted cell longevity by acting as free radical scavengers. To test this hypothesis we exposed cultured brain cells to lethal and sub lethal doses of the free radical generating agents hydrogen peroxide and UV light. Exposure to cerium oxide nanoparticles afforded significant protection against both of these free radical generating agents and reduced cell death in excess of 60 . Protection against UV and hydrogen peroxide mediated injury was preserved in 3 month old cultures that had been treated with cerium oxide nanoparticles on day 10 in culture. Thus the effects of cerium oxide nanoparticles are long lasting following a single dose.

Studies comparing the effects of cerium oxide nanoparticles to the traditional free radical scavengers Vitamin E melatonin and N acetyl cysteine demonstrated that only cerium oxide nanoparticles were capable of enhancing longevity. Further cerium oxide nanoparticles provided superior protection to free radical mediated injury as compared to single and multiple doses of traditional free radical scavengers.

To further confirm our hypothesis that cerium oxide nanoparticles act via a free radical scavenging mechanism we have detected a novel shift in the excitation spectra of cerium oxide nanoparticle solutions and in cells loaded with cerium oxide nanoparticles during free radical challenge. In cells and in cerium oxide nanoparticle solutions excitation scans reveal a peak excitation of 451 for cerium oxide nanoparticles in the reduced 4 valence state. Upon free radical challenge the excitation maxima shifts to 356 nm suggesting a change in cerium to the 3 valence state. After 5 20 minutes the excitation spectra returns to the normal resting state with a peak maxima of 451 excitation suggesting regeneration of the original cerium oxide lattice structure.

Using electron microscopy microspectrophotometry and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry we found that cerium oxide nanoparticles of size less than 20 inn readily enter cultured cells and cells of living organisms. Further doses as high as 100 fold of that which extend cell culture lifespan exhibited no overt toxicity in . A single tail vein injection of 0.3 3 mM in the mouse produced no overt organ or behavioral abnormalities. Cerium oxide nanoparticles were found to accumulate preferentially in brain heart and lung with little excretion over a 6 month time period. At the 0.3 mM dose tissue cerium levels approximately doubled as compared to background but remained in the parts per billion range.

Using an in vitro model representative of human head injury that has been extensively published we have demonstrated that brain cell injury in response to trauma may be related in part to generation of free radicals induced by injury. Brain cell cultures treated with cerium oxide nanoparticles on day 10 in vitro showed a 60 70 reduction in cell injury when trauma was administered on days 15 18 in vitro. Further delivery of cerium oxide nanoparticles up to 3 hrs post injury reduced neuronal death by 40 50 depending on the degree of injury. Thus cerium oxide nanoparticles represent a treatment for trauma and other forms of neurodegeneration associated with free radical injury.

In brain trauma neuronal dysfunction often manifests causing persistent neurological deficits. Here we demonstrate this correlates to human head injury with an in vitro model. We found that pre or post injury delivery of nanoparticles significantly reduced neuronal dysfunction as measured by neurotransmitter stimulated calcium signaling in both astrocytes and neurons.

Free radical production and the associated cell damage are components of many inflammatory disorders including arthritis Alzheimer s Disease multiple sclerosis atherosclerosis ALS Parkinson s disease autoimmune diseases and allergic disorders. We found cerium oxide nanoparticles to be potent inhibitors of inflammation and inflammatory cell damage. Our studies indicate that cerium oxide nanoparticles reduce the inflammatory response in brain microglia MG reduce neuronal death induced by activated inflammatory brain MG as well as reduce the release of interleukin 1 and inflammatory mediators of the arachidonic acid cascade in brain MG. We also found that cerium oxide nanoparticles reduce the inflammatory activation state of human neutrophil and macrophage like cells lines HL 60 and U937 and reduce the inflammatory response initiated by histamine bacterial lipopolysaccharide LPS and fMLP f met leu phe chemotactic peptide in human neutrophil and macrophage Re cell lines HL 60 U937 . Therefore cerium oxide nanoparticles represent a novel treatment for inflammatory and immune disorders.

As shown in resting MG have compact cell bodies with long branched processes. In MG were stimulated with LPS. Note the dramatic morphological changes as compared to the resting state A . LPS induced morphological changes are blocked by CeO NP as shown in C.

Radiation injury induces cell death by free radical mediated damage to cellular DNA RNA and proteins. Cerium oxide nanoparticles reduced brain cell death associated with 1 3 and 5 Gray by 78 62 and 48 respectively. In these experiments a single 10 nM dose of nanoparticles was administered on day 10 in vitro with irradiation of cultures on day 12 15. Further a reduction in injury was observed even when particles were administered up to 3 hrs post irradiation. These results suggest that cerium oxide nanoparticles have significant radioprotective properties and may be utilized in radiation protection for military and anti bioterrorism applications. Additionally nanoparticles have the potential for use in cancer therapy by protection of non cancerous bystander cells from radiation injury.

For the experiments in mixed brain cell cultures were treated with CeO NP at 10 DIV and exposed to UV light at 16 or 68 DIV. Note that there are no 68 DIV untreated controls since untreated mixed brain cell cultures do not survive this long. CeO NP treatment dramatically increased survival after 5 and 15 min UV exposure which are known to induce cell death through free radical production. Further the protective effects of a single 10 nM dose of CeO NP were maintained through the extended lifespan of these cells.

For the experiments in mixed brain cell cultures were exposed to a second source of free radical generation gamma irradiation. Cultures were treated with CeO NP and exposed to irradiation as described above. A single 10 nM dose of CeO NP delivered at 10 DIV provided significant protection against gamma irradiation which was again maintained through the extended lifespan of the cultures.

In the experiments cerium oxide nanoparticles or other free radical scavengers were delivered to the tissue culture medium on DIV . Medium was replaced 48 hrs later followed by regular medium changes every 2 3 days. UV exposure was performed on DIV . Cerium Oxide nanoparticles reduced UV light induced cell death 24 hr after a 5 or 15 min. exposure by 58 . MEL reduced cell death associated with short term 5 min UV exposure to a similar extent but was less effective after a long term 15 min exposure. Vitamin E afforded a modest degree of protection.

In the experiments a single 10 nM dose of cerium oxide nanoparticles delivered on DIV was compared to multiple doses of other antioxidants. Vitamin E n Acetyl Cysteine and Melatonin were administered at DIV and again on DIV . Cerium Oxide nanoparticles were more efficient at decreasing UV mediated cell injury than multiple doses of Vitamin E n Acetyl Cysteine or Melatonin.

Because MG are activated by exposure to medium conditioned by injured astrocytes we first determined NO release from astrocytes during the 1 and 3 hour post injury period as shown in . There is significant NO release from moderate and severely injured astrocytes 1 hour after injury suggesting that astrocytes play an important role in oxidative stress in the brain.

In exposure of MG to medium conditioned by astrocytes for 1 or 3 hours regardless of injury increased NO release suggesting that astrocytes regulate the inflammatory potential of brain MG. Treatment of MG with 10 nM cerium oxide nanoparticles reduced NO release in all cases. In MG activated by exposure to medium conditioned by mild moderate and severely injured astrocytes for 1 hour cerium oxide nanoparticles reduced NO release by 29 44 70 respectively. In MG activated by exposure to medium conditioned by mild moderate and severely injured astrocytes for 3 hours the decrease in NO release afforded by cerium oxide nanoparticles was more modest.

In MG exposed to 100 ng ml LPS for 24 hours exhibited release of NO of 16.1 mM. When treated with 10 nM Cerium Oxide nanoparticles for 24 hours prior to exposure NO release decreased by 62.0 demonstrating that Cerium Oxide nanoparticles decrease release of inflammatory mediators that may enhance neuronal death.

As shown in resting MG have compact cell bodies with long branched processes. MG activated by exposure to medium conditioned by severely injured astrocytes become more amoeboid in shape with retracted short processes and highly granulated and vacuolated cytoplasms. Pretreatment with Cerium Oxide nanoparticles prevent some of the morphological changes observed in. MG activation. MG were also stimulated with LPS. Note the dramatic morphological changes as compared to the resting state. LPS induced morphological changes are blocked by Cerium Oxide nanoparticles.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the practice of the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

