---

title: Automatic quote generation
abstract: Automatic quotes or references are generated based on a user's interaction with one or more pieces of content. A passage for quotation may be determined based at least in part on usage data including information about interaction with one or more pieces of content. A user may begin to type a quotation and a corresponding passage is inserted. The user may vary the scope of the passage, such as adding sentences or paragraphs. User annotation of the passage while the content is presented may also generate an automatically inserted quotation. A citation descriptive of the quoted passage may also be inserted. The automatically inserted quotation may be configured with a link or script, allowing additional functions or access to source content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256889&OS=09256889&RS=09256889
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09256889
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120920
---
Students scholars lawyers reporters and many others frequently generate content in which other content is referenced or quoted. For example research papers may reference various articles legal briefs may reference cases reporters may reference other reports and so forth. Proper quotation and referencing can be tedious and error prone. Furthermore due to the differences in formatting and management citation of electronically delivered content may be more complicated.

Certain implementations will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various implementations and or aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

A wide variety of content is available ranging from books eBooks magazines articles blogs slide presentations and so forth. Students scholars lawyers reporters and many others generate content in which other content is referenced or quoted. For example a user typing an email may quote a particularly interesting passage in a book.

Traditionally quotation has required several steps which may introduce errors. For example the user may incorrectly enter the quoted passage or may omit marks indicating the quote has been amended. Or the user may create an incorrect citation such as omitting a part of the reference or using an incorrect label for the source content. Incorrect or inadequate citation may more likely when electronic versions of content are considered. For example different electronic versions may be available and may be presented on different devices.

Described in this disclosure are systems and methods for automatically generating quotes quotes with citations or citations. In one implementation the user may have a first device such as an eBook reader device and a second device such as a laptop computer. The user may read and annotate content with the eBook reader device while generating content using the laptop. For example the user may read materials for an introductory law college class on the eBook reader device and may write a term paper for that class on their laptop. While reading the materials usage data may be collected. The usage data provides information about what content or portions thereof have been presented to the user.

While writing the term paper the user begins to enter a quote. A start of the quote is determined such as by the user entering a hotkey activating a command entry of a particular gesture typing a specific string such as a double quotation mark and so forth. The usage data is used to determine what content is referenced and the passage therein. For example rather than searching through all eBooks owned by the user based at least in part on the usage data the most recently accessed eBooks are searched. Based on the determination the passage or a portion thereof is automatically inserted at the point where the user began to enter the quote.

The user may enter additional commands to select a particular portion of the content for quotation. For example the user may press the right arrow key to select the next sentence in the passage down arrow to select an entire paragraph and so forth. Upon entry of a closed quote or other concluding string or command a placed quote is completed and a placed citation referencing the passage may be generated and inserted as well. The placed quotes may include embedded information such as metadata links to source content and so forth.

The placed quotes may also be subject to one or more quote restrictions. For example a publisher may specify that no more than ten percent of the publication is to be quoted in a single document or by a particular user.

Quotes may also be automatically generated based on the user annotating a portion of the content. For example when the user highlights a passage on the eBook reader device a quote may be generated and presented on the laptop.

The automatic quote generation allows for the fast easy attributed and accurate inclusion of portions of content in the user s work. As a result the experience of the user generating the content is improved. Furthermore the experience of a reader or consumer of the generated content is improved by the quality of the placed quote the placed citation and the ability to access functions such as links metadata and so forth which may be embedded in the placed quote as well.

In some implementations the first device and the second device may have the same or identical resources. For example the first device and the second device may both comprise tablet computers of the same make and model. In yet another implementation presentation of the content and the work being done which may quote the content may be performed on the same physical device or on the same virtual device. For example a single tablet computer may display an eBook reader application as well as a word processing application. The first device and the second device are discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The first device and the second device may couple to a network . The network may include but is not limited to the Internet a private network a virtual private network a wireless wide area network a cellular data network a local area network a personal area network a wireless local area network metropolitan area network a telephone network and so forth. When coupled to the network the first device and the second device may communicate with each other or with other devices coupled to the network . A quote server configured to provide automatic quote generation may be coupled to the network . The quote server may be configured to work in conjunction with one or both of the first device and the second device as described next to automatically generate quotes.

The first device and the second device may each include a quote module . The quote module is configured to automatically facilitate quotation of a portion of the content . In one implementation the quote module may be configured to gather or access usage data for the device. The usage data describes how the user is interacting with content on the device or the state of the device. For example usage data may include information such as what piece of content is presently displayed on the first device . The usage data is discussed below in more detail with regard to .

The quote server may include a quote administration module . The quote administration module may be configured to enforce quote restrictions determine quotes distribute quotes and so forth. The quote administration module may work in conjunction with one or more of the quote modules to automatically generate quotes. In some implementations the quote administration module or the associated functionality may be executed at least in part on the first device the second device or both.

Based at least in part on the usage data the quote module the quote administration module or both are configured to determine a portion of the content and generate a placed quote . In one implementation to make this determination the quote module may receive through a user interface or acquire from another device an initiation data . The initiation data triggers the quote module to begin searching the content for a portion to use in a quote. In some implementations an initiation event may trigger the quote module to begin searching using the initiation data . The initiation data may be received in some implementations from a user interface configured to edit or create a file. For example the user interface may be part of a word processor.

This search may be of one or more of the content user annotations user comments and so forth. The initiation data may comprise text or other input such as recognized speech sign language drawings and so forth which corresponds to at least a portion of one or more of the content user comments associated with the content or annotations associated with the content .

The initiation data may include a string beginning with the double quote character. For example the quote module may be configured to search the content for the text following a single double quote character or which appears within a pair of double quotes. When a user interface receives a first single double quote an initiation event may be generated indicating that the initiation data is to comprise the subsequently entered data.

In another implementation ongoing portions of text or other data entered by the user may be used as the initiation data . For example while the user enters text into a document on the second device the quote module may check the entered text for matches in the content or the comments or annotations of the content .

A user interface may be configured to receive the initiation data from user input. For example a dialog box may be presented for the initiation data . Other mechanisms such as onscreen controls hotkeys particular gestures and so forth may also be used to indicate the insertion of a quote is desired by the user .

The quote module may be configured to apply spell checking machine learning heuristics and so forth to determine a portion of the content for quotation where the user has incorrectly entered a quote. For example the initiation data may be incorrectly entered as To prorate which the quote module in conjunction with the quote administration module determines the user likely intended to enter To promote based at least in part on the usage data and the data in the currently presented content .

In this implementation based at least in part on the usage data and the initiation data the quote module the quote administration module or both working in conjunction generate quote data . The quote data provides information about a portion of the content which the user would like to quote. The quote data may include information such as the text of the quoted content citation data and so forth. The quote data is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The quote module may process the quote data and present a portion of the quoted content to the user with a user interface. The user may use the user interface to select a scope of the quote. The scope of the quote designates boundaries of the portion of the content the user wishes to quote. Thus the user may expand or reduce the quoted material to get a particular desired quote. For example the user may use a right arrow key to select an entire sentence a down arrow key to select an entire paragraph and so forth. When the user determines the scope of the quote or accepts the default scope the quote module generates based on the quote data a placed quote .

The placed quote may be inserted by the quote module into an existing piece of content such as a document or email of the user . The placed quote may include links embedded data digital rights management parameters and so forth. For example the placed quote may include links such that when processed present the content from which the quote was taken. Continuing the example when the user is reading the document on the second device and selects the placed quote the embedded link may result in the content being presented on the first device at the point where the quoted material appears.

The user may choose to edit the placed quote . For example the user may remove a portion in the middle of the quoted material insert a clarifying comment and so forth. These user edits may be accepted and in some implementations the quote module may automatically add editing marks indicative of the user edits. For example insertion of text may be enclosed in square brackets deletion of text indicated with ellipses and so forth. Also the entirety of the originally quoted material unedited by the user may still be available for presentation. For example upon later presentation of the quoted material the user may be able to select and view the original quote without the editing.

The quote module may also be configured to insert a placed citation . The placed citation may comprise a human readable citation format referring to the content . In some implementations the placed citation may be configured to be dynamic such that as the content is updated the presentation of the placed citation is changed to match. The placed quote and the placed citation may be collectively referred to as an automatically generated quote . For example as depicted here and described above the initiation data of To promote resulted in the quote of a portion of the United States Constitution. The user defined the scope of the quote and the placed citation appropriate to the placed quote was automatically inserted without human intervention.

The system may also be configured to automatically format and amend the automatically generated quote . For example the user may insert a word or choose to end the quote before the end of a sentence. The quote module the quote administration module or both may be configured to automatically bracket added words insert ellipses and so forth. This functionality may improve the overall integrity of the quote by minimizing editing errors.

Annotation or review of annotations may be used to initiate the generation of the automatically generated quote . This may be used instead of or in addition to the initiation data described above. The content may be annotated. These annotations may include a comment associated with a portion of the content a highlight made to a portion of the content a bookmark entry and so forth. The system may be configured to generate the automatically generated quote based on the action of annotating the content selecting an annotation and so forth. For example when the user highlights a portion of text in the content on the first device the quote module may insert the automatically generated quote into user generated content on the second device such as a document open in a word processing application. The user generated content may comprise data which was created at least in part by the user . Generation of the automatically generated quote based on an annotation is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

In some implementations the quote modules . . . Q may be configured to operate in a collaborative display mode where the content or quote presented on one device affects one or more other devices. For example while scrolling through the document containing the automatically generated quote on the second device the first device may be configured to present the portion of the content which is quoted. Similarly while paging through the content on the first device the second device may be configured to present the portion of the user generated document containing the automatically generated quote which corresponds to the portion on the display of the first device .

The quote modules and working in conjunction with one another and the quote administration module provide a user friendly environment in which the user may easily and accurately quote material. As described above this may include quoting content which the user has generated. For example the user may use the quote module to enter an automatically generated quote referring to an email sent several weeks ago. A portion of the email may be inserted as the placed quote and the placed citation may indicate the information about the particular email in which the quote appears.

While two devices and and one server are depicted in this illustration in other implementations additional devices or servers may be involved. For example the user may have a third device comprising another eBook reader device. The first device may present a first piece of content while the third device presents another piece of content or a different portion of the content .

The usage data may include a user account identifier . The user account identifier provides information as to what user is accessing the device and the content . For example the user account identifier may be used by the quote administration module to limit a search of content to that which the user has associated with their account.

A content identifier provides information about what particular piece of content the usage data is associated with. For example the content identifier may indicate that the United States Constitution was being accessed.

A location in content presented may be provided in the usage data . This may be a location identifier specifying the last known location or last known set of locations of the content which the user had presented. For example the location in a physical book may be a page number or in an eBook may comprise an invariant reference number byte count embedded markup tag and so forth. This may be the location in the content presented at a given instant in time such as at the time of an initiation event or the location in the content at a previous time.

A date time last accessed may be provided. The system may be configured to search for quotes across many pieces of the content in order of the date time last accessed . For example recently accessed content may be searched first while content which has not been accessed for several months may be searched last.

A dwell time at the location in the content may be provided in the usage data . For example the dwell time may indicate how long the portion of the content was presented to the user either at a single time or cumulatively. The system may be configured to determine the search order of the content as well as ranking potentially ambiguous results based at least in part on the dwell time at the location . For example the initiation data may return several results. A result for a particular passage in the content which the user spent twelve minutes reading would be listed first while the remaining results with lesser dwell times would be listed later.

The usage data may reflect annotations entered or annotations reviewed . Annotations may include the user inserting a comment associated with a portion of the content highlighting a portion of the content entering a bookmark and so forth. An annotation may be considered an indicator that the user is particularly interested in this portion of the content . In some implementations the system may be configured to search the annotations and associated portions of content for the initiation data . When the annotation contains the text in the initiation data the annotation the associated portion of the content or both may be inserted as the automatically generated quote . The annotation entered or annotations reviewed data may include one or more location identifiers specifying a position of the annotated portion within the content .

In other implementations as described above the annotation action or the review of the annotation may be used to generate the automatically generated quote . For example the quote module may receive usage data from the quote module indicating the user has highlighted a passage. The quote module may provide the automatically generated quote on the second device based at least in part on this quote data indicating the highlight.

The usage data may include other data such as type of device the content was accessed on geographic location and so forth. For example the quote administration module may be configured to provide automatically generated quotes so long as the first device and the second device are on a particular college campus. Should the user take the devices off campus this functionality may be suspended.

The usage data may also be manually entered or transferred from another system. For example the user may be taking a class which uses a reference available in printed form and electronic form. The user may not have access to the first device but is using the second device to write a term paper in conjunction with a printed copy of the reference. Using a user interface the user may enter content identifiers such as an international standard book number ISBN a universal product code UPC or a title of published material. The user enters the ISBN of the paper book and the system may now access the electronic version of that title to provide the automatically generated quote .

Quoted content is the particular text diagram figure table and so forth which the user selected or indicated for quotation. A content identifier identifies a particular piece of content . Citation data may be included in the quote data . The citation data may include bibliographic information such as author references to physical print version and so forth. Content metadata may include information such as categories to which the content belongs copyright dates and so forth. A version number may be provided to allow for distinction between different editions or versions of the same piece of content . A date time the quote was generated may also be stored.

The quote data may include a link . The link may comprise a markup language tag script and so forth. The link may include a reference such as a uniform resource locator to content stored on another device. The link is configured such that when processed or rendered by the quote module or another module such as a hypertext markup language rendering engine an action is performed. For example this action may be triggering presentation of the references portion of the content on the first device upon selection of the automatically generated quote . The link may also be used to provide for checking such that when the underlying content changes the automatically generated quote may be updated. For example the author of the content may correct a typographical error which appears in the portion of the content which was quoted. After the correction the quote module after processing the link may update the placed quote to reflect the change in the underlying content .

The quote data may also include user edits made to the quote. For example the user may remove portions of the text add words or suffixes for clarify and so forth. The quote data may include data about these edits. In some implementations the underlying quoted content may remain within the embedded automatically generated quote . As a result the placed quote may reflect the user edits but the user may activate the link or use another facility to view the unedited quoted content .

Digital rights management parameters may be provided in the quote data . These parameters may be used to define limitations on distribution what devices may be used to initiate automatically generated quotes and so forth.

Other data may also be provided. For example a user entered category a user entered rating of the quote and so forth.

Based at least in part on access by the user to content block generates usage data . For example the user may open the content on the first device .

Block provides the usage data to the quote server . For example the first device may use a network interface to send the usage data over the network to the quote server .

Block associates the usage data with the user . For example the quote server may retrieve the user account identifier from the usage data and identify an account on the quote server associated with that user.

Block provides an initiation data received from the user such as through a user interface. As shown here the user has entered the initiation data To promote on the second device . In another implementation the initiation data may be a portion of a user comment which is associated with the content . The second device may send the initiation data or a portion thereof to the quote server . As described above in some implementations the initiation data may comprise ongoing entry of data such that as the user enters text the process checks for quotes and inserts automatically generated quotes .

In some implementations block may provide data associated with initiation event in addition to the initiation data . The initiation event comprises one or more actions taken by the user to initiating the generation of the automatically generated quote . For example the initiation event may be used to trigger the providing of the initiation data to the quote server of block .

The initiation event may comprise entry of a particular key combination use of a dedicated key selection of text change in focus in a user interface entry of a particular string and so forth. For example the initiation event may be generated or triggered upon receive in a user interface of a single double quote character. The initiation event may be configured to trigger the quote module to act on the initiation data data. In some implementations the initiation event may trigger sending the initiation data to the quote module . In another implementation the quote module may continuously monitor for the initiation data without need for receiving a particular initiation event.

Block compares the received initiation data with a portion of the content indicated by the content identifier in the usage data. For example the quote server may search the content referenced in the usage data to find the phrase To promote. In some implementations the comparison may be based at least in part on receiving the initiation event.

The comparison may include analyzing the content to select one or more portions which match or otherwise correspond to the initiation data . For example the initiation data to promote matches a portion of the text for the United States Constitution which the user had been accessing. The analyzing may also allow for near matches or incomplete phrases in the initiation data . For example the initiation data of to promote progress may be analyzed to determine a correspondence to the passage to promote the Progress . . . . 

Block determines based at least in part on a match found in the comparing or analyzing the quote data . The quote data comprises at least a portion of content associated with the received initiation data . For example the quote data may include the entire sentence which begins To promote . . . . The quote data may have a default scope of the sentence paragraph and so forth. As described below the user may change the scope of the quote.

Block provides the quote data based at least in part on the determined portion of the content . For example the quote server may generate the quote data including the quoted content and may use the network to send the quote data to the second device .

Block inserts the automatically generated quote based at least in part on the quote data . For example the quote module of the second device may process the quote data and insert the placed quote and the placed citation into the body of the text being drafted by the user .

Block accepts user input at the second device to adjust a scope of the quoted material. For example the user may increase or decrease the selection of quoted material. Block updates the determined portion of the content in the quote data based on the user input and provides this information to block . Block may proceed to provide updated quote data to the second device .

While the process is depicted as occurring between the first device the second device and the quote server in some implementations the functions described may be performed by additional or fewer devices. For example the functions described may be provided by a single device.

Similar to above this diagram depicts the first device the second device and the quote server . Time is indicated with arrow with time increasing down the page. Based at least in part on access by the user to content block generates usage data associated with one or more pieces of content . Block provides the usage data to another device such as the second device .

Block receives a string input such as an initiation data from the user . For example the user may enter the start of a quote on the second device while writing a term paper.

Block based at least in part on the usage data determines a portion of the content associated with the initiation data . For example the quote module may be configured to search the content identified in the usage data for the initiation data . The content may be from a source other than the user such as an eBook or may comprise user generated data such as a user created document email graph table and so forth.

As described above the usage data may include one or more content identifiers . The content identifiers may include a reference to an electronic piece of content or may also reference physical content . For example the content identifiers may be an international standard book number a universal product code a title of published material and so forth.

Block requests approval of the quote entry. In some implementations quote restrictions or other limitations may be placed on the user the content or a combination. For example a teacher may have specified that the students are only allowed to quote a maximum of 1 of the source material. The quote restrictions are discussed below in more detail with regard to . In some implementations approval of the quote may be omitted or handled by the first device or the second device .

Block determines quote restrictions associated with the determined portion of the content . Based at least in part on the determined quote restrictions block approves a quote entry. For example the quote server may approve and send this approval to the first device using the network .

Block generates quote data based at least in part on the determined quote restrictions if any. Block provides the quote data . For example the first device may send the quote data to the second device . Block inserts the automatically generated quote based at least in part on the quote data . In some implementations as described above with regard to user input adjusting the scope of the quoted material may be accepted. This user input may be used to update the determined portion of the content which in turn is used to provide updated quote data which reflects this change in scope. While blocks and are depicted as operating on the first device in other implementations the quote server may provide these operations.

While the process is depicted as occurring between the first device the second device and the quote server in some implementations the functions described may be performed by additional or fewer devices. For example the functions described may be provided by a single device.

The processor may comprise one or more cores and is configured to access and execute at least in part instructions stored in the one or more memories . The one or more memories comprise one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The one or more memories may include but are not limited to random access memory RAM flash RAM magnetic media optical media and so forth. The one or more memories may be volatile in that information is retained while providing power or non volatile in that information is retained without providing power.

The display is configured to present visual information to the user . The display may comprise a reflective or emissive display configured to present images to the user . An emissive display emits light to form an image. Emissive displays include but are not limited to backlit liquid crystal displays plasma displays cathode ray tubes light emitting diodes image projectors and so forth. Reflective displays use incident light to form an image. This incident light may be provided by the sun general illumination in the room a reading light and so forth. Reflective displays include but are not limited to electrophoretic displays interferometric displays cholesteric displays and so forth. The display may be configured to present images in monochrome color or both. In some implementations the display of the device may use emissive reflective or combination displays with emissive and reflective elements.

The one or more I O interfaces may also be provided in the device . These I O interfaces allow for coupling devices such as keyboards joysticks touch sensors cameras microphones speakers haptic output devices external memories and so forth to the device .

The one or more network interfaces provide for the transfer of data between the device and another device directly such as in a peer to peer fashion via the network or both. The network interfaces may include but are not limited to personal area networks PANs wired local area networks LANs wireless local area networks WLANs wireless wide area networks WWANs and so forth. The network interfaces may utilize acoustic radio frequency optical or other signals to exchange data between the device and another device such as an access point a host computer another device and the like.

The one or more memories may store instructions or modules for execution by the processor to perform certain actions or functions. The following modules are included by way of illustration and not as a limitation. Furthermore while the modules are depicted as stored in the memory in some implementations these modules may be stored at least in part in external memory such as in the quote server which is accessible to the device via the network . These modules may include an operating system module configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processor .

The one or more memories may also store a datastore . The datastore may comprise one or more databases files linked lists or other data structures. The datastore may be configured to store content user quote preferences usage data quote data or other data . The user quote preferences may define particular citation styles formatting and so forth which the user prefers to see.

A user interface module is configured to provide a user interface which handles inputs from and outputs to the user during operation of the device . For example the user interface module may be configured to present a portion of the content or accept the user s initiation data during the creation of new content or the modification of existing content. User input may include key presses touches on a touch screen movement of the device or a portion thereof speech input gestures images acquired by a camera and so forth. User outputs may include presentation on the display sound from a speaker haptic output generating a physical sensation or the appearance of a physical sensation and so forth.

The quote module as described above is configured to provide automatically generated quote functionality to the user . The quote module may be configured to work in conjunction with other modules such as those described next which may receive the automatically generated quotes .

In some implementations the device may include the quote administration module . As described above the quote administration module may be configured to enforce quote restrictions determine quotes distribute quotes and so forth. The quote administration module may work in conjunction with one or more of the quote modules .

A word processor module is configured to allow the user to edit or create documents. An email module is configured to provide messaging functionality. An internet browser module is configured to render information provided in markup languages including hypertext markup language HTML . The quote module may work in conjunction with these modules to allow for the insertion of the automatically generated quotes . Other modules may be present such as digital rights management modules graphic editing modules and so forth.

The processor may comprise one or more cores and is configured to access and execute at least in part instructions stored in the one or more memories . The one or more memories comprise CRSM. The one or more memories may include but are not limited to random access memory RAM flash RAM magnetic media optical media and so forth. The one or more memories may be volatile in that information is retained while providing power or non volatile in that information is retained without providing power.

The one or more I O interfaces may also be provided in the quote server . These I O interfaces allow for coupling the I O devices such as keyboards displays touch sensors external memories cryptographic processors and so forth to the quote server .

The one or more network interfaces provide for the transfer of data between the quote server and another device directly such as in a peer to peer fashion via the network or both. The network interfaces may include but are not limited to PANs LANs WLANs WWANs and so forth. The network interfaces may utilize acoustic radio frequency optical or other signals to exchange data between the quote server and another device such as router network switch another quote server the first user device or the second user device and the like.

The one or more memories may store instructions or modules for execution by the processor to perform certain actions or functions. The following modules are included by way of illustration and not as a limitation. Furthermore while the modules are depicted as stored in the memory in some implementations these modules may be stored at least in part in external memory such as in other devices which are accessible to the quote server via the network . These modules may include an operating system module configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processor .

The one or more memories may also store a datastore . The datastore may comprise one or more databases files linked lists or other data structures. The datastore may be configured to store content quote restrictions usage data quote data quote determination rules or other data . The quote restrictions define what may be quoted and how much of the content may be included in the quote. The quote restrictions are discussed in more detail below with regard to .

A server interface module is configured to provide a user interface application interface or both which handles inputs and outputs from the user during operation of the quote server . For example the server interface module may be configured to provide an application programming interface which the quote modules may use to access the quote server .

The quote administration module may be configured to enforce quote restrictions determine quotes distribute quotes and so forth. The quote administration module may work in conjunction with one or more of the quote modules to automatically generate quotes. For example the quote administration module may receive via the server interface module the usage data and the initiation data . Based at least in part on this data the quote administration module may generate the quote data and provide it to a recipient device such as the second device .

The quote administration module may be configured to apply spell checking machine learning heuristics and so forth to determine a portion of the content for quotation where the user has incorrectly entered a quote. For example the initiation data may be incorrectly entered as To encourage and promote which the quote module in conjunction with the quote administration module determines the user likely intended to enter To promote based at least in part on the usage data and the data in the recently accessed content .

Other modules may be present in the memory as well. For example a content indexing module may be present and configured to generate one or more indices for finding content.

The quote restrictions may include a maximum total length allowed to quote . This may indicate a maximum for an individual quote maximum of cumulative quoted material and so forth. For example a publisher may set the maximum total length allowed to quote to 1000 characters per quotation. Users may insert automatically generated quotes up to this 1000 character limit but longer quotes would be disallowed.

A maximum number of quotes may also be specified. For example the publisher may further set that no more than fifteen quotes regardless of length may be made from the content .

Particular groups or users may be permitted or disallowed to quote . For example university students may be permitted to quote the content or may have different quote restrictions compared to non students.

A maximum percentage of content available to quote may be specified. For example the author may specify that no more than 5 of the content may be quoted. Other restrictions may also be provided. In some implementations the quote restrictions may be applied to a particular portion of the content . For example a portion of an eBook where the denouement takes place may be restricted such that quotes are not permitted.

In this illustration the user has been typing a term paper using a word processor module on the second device . The user has entered the initiation data of the congress shall have power. After processing this initiation data and determining that a plurality of possible quotes are available the quote module may present a quote disambiguation control . The quote disambiguation control is configured to allow the user to specify a particular piece of content or portion thereof for selection. In some implementations where many different pieces of content are implicated the quote disambiguation control may use a hierarchical presentation format such as presenting titles then allowing the user to progressively select down to a particular chapter then passage.

The quote disambiguation control may be configured to present a ranked list . The ranked list may be sorted or ranked based at least in part on the usage data . For example the list may be sorted by the date time last accessed dwell time and so forth. A plurality of different factors may be used and weighted to develop the ranking. For example the date time may be given more weight than the dwell time .

The user may make a user selection of the particular quote. Once selection is made the quote module may be configured to complete generation of the automatically generated quote . As described above the user interface may be configured to allow the user to change the scope of the quote changing the beginning or end of the quote.

In some implementations the user may disambiguate from several possible quotes by continuing to type text. The additional data in the initiation data may thus be used to reduce potential quotes on the ranked list or to disambiguate sufficiently that a single quote is selected.

Block receives an annotation of a portion of the content . For example the user may use the first device to enter a highlight of a passage in the content .

Block provides usage data comprising information associated with the annotated portion. For example the first device may send the usage data to the quote server using the network .

Block determines a portion of the content for quotation based at least in part on the usage data . For example the quote server access the referenced content using the content identifier and the annotation entered data.

Block generates quote data based at least in part on the determined portion. Because the user has interacted with a particular annotation and that annotation is associated with a particular portion of the content disambiguation may not be called for.

Block stores at least a portion of the quote data . For example the quote server may transfer at least a portion of the quote data to the second device . The quote module of the second device may then generate the automatically generated quote based at least in part on the quote data .

Block provides the quote data . For example the first device may send the quote data to the second device . Block inserts the automatically generated quote based at least in part on the quote data . In some implementations as described above with regard to user input adjusting the scope of the quoted material may be accepted. This user input may be used to update the determined portion of the content which in turn is used to provide updated quote data which reflects this change in scope.

While the process is depicted as occurring between the first device the second device and the quote server in some implementations the functions described may be performed by additional or fewer devices. For example the functions described may be provided by a single device.

As shown in the user annotation state the user has entered a user highlight of a portion of the content. In response to the entry of the highlight or in response to a query from another device such as the second device or the quote server the quote data is provided. The quote data may be provided directly to the second device or may be provided to the quote server .

Initiation of the quote process may be automatic or triggered by an action of the user . For example the user may configure the first device automatically send a quote for all highlights. Or the user may highlight and press a hotkey which sends the quote data to initiate the automatically generated quote .

A quote delivered state depicts the second device after generation of the automatically generated quote . Once the quote data has been processed quote restrictions have been checked and cleared and so forth the quote data is processed by the quote module to generate the placed quote and the placed citation .

In some implementations quote data may be presented in a user interface as a list of available quotes. The user may then select from this list to insert the automatically generated quotes at a later time. For example while reading the content the user may make many highlights or other annotations. Later in front of the second device and preparing to write the term paper the user may call up a listing of the pending quotations based on the quote data from the first device . During composition of the term paper the user may then select a particular quote to have it inserted at a particular point in the paper.

A send quote control may be provided in the user interface . The user may activate this control to instruct the quote module to send the quote data comprising the user highlight to another device such as the second device or the quote server . On another device such as the second user device the same or another user may select one or more of the quotes for insertion into another document.

A send comment control may be provided in the user interface . Similar to the send quote control the user may activate the send comment control to instruct the quote module send the quote data comprising the user comment to another device.

As described above the user may enter an initiation data which includes text present in the user comment . For example the user may enter as the initiation data at least a portion of the text in the user comment on the second device which would result in the quote module inserting the associated content designated by the user highlight . Alternatively the user may select or indicate that the user comment is to be quoted or inserted.

By providing the ability to quickly and accurately insert quotations into the material the overall user experience is improved for the user and for the consumer of the content generated by the user . Furthermore the quote restrictions and other digital rights management controls may be useful in mitigating problems such as plagiarism.

The operations and processes described and shown above may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various implementations. Additionally in certain implementations at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain implementations less than or more than the operations described may be performed.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to various implementations. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some implementations.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage media or memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage media produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example certain implementations may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions implemented therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other implementations of the disclosure set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific implementations disclosed and that modifications and other implementations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

