---

title: Location-based application management methods and systems
abstract: An exemplary method includes a location-based application management system 1) determining that a mobile device associated with a user is located within a geographic vicinity associated with an entity, 2) automatically identifying, in response to the determining, an executable application associated with the entity, and 3) facilitating execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. Corresponding methods and systems are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113297&OS=09113297&RS=09113297
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09113297
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
The popularity of applications apps for mobile devices e.g. smartphones and tablet computers has risen drastically in recent years. To illustrate many entities with brick and mortar establishments e.g. retail businesses kiosks movie theaters airports banks etc. have developed mobile device applications with which mobile device users may interact while within geographic vicinities associated with the respective entities e.g. near and or within the entities respective establishments . In this manner the mobile device users may have a more enjoyable productive and or fulfilling experience while visiting or otherwise interacting with such establishments.

Unfortunately however a user typically has to manually locate a mobile device application provided by a particular entity within an online application store and then download and install the application before he or she may use the mobile device application while within a geographic vicinity associated with the entity. With the plethora of available mobile device applications this may be difficult time consuming and or cumbersome for the user to perform. Even if the user already has the application installed on his or her mobile device he or she has to manually launch i.e. initiate the application in order to use the application while within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. This too can be difficult time consuming and or cumbersome for many users. As a result many mobile device users do not end up using entity provided mobile device applications to their full extent or at all.

Location based application management methods and systems are described herein. As will be described below a location based application management system may 1 determine that a mobile device associated with a user is located within a geographic vicinity associated with an entity 2 automatically identify in response to the determination an executable application associated with the entity and 3 facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity.

As used herein an executable application or simply application may include any application that may be executed by a mobile device. For example an executable application may include a stand alone application a web based application a mobile app and or any other type of application as may serve a particular implementation. In some examples an application may be provided by e.g. developed by and or directly associated with a particular entity. Alternatively the application may be provided by a third party not necessarily associated with the entity e.g. a restaurant finder application etc. .

The methods and systems described herein may allow a user to readily and easily interact with an application associated with e.g. provided by an entity while within a geographic vicinity associated with the entity. For example in accordance with the methods and systems described herein a user may walk into a store in which she has never been and be presented with an application provided by the store on her mobile device without having to manually download and or launch the application. The user may then use the application to browse merchandise available for sale in the store view coupons or other special offers purchase items without having to stand in line and or otherwise interact with the store thereby enhancing her shopping experience and allowing the store to more fully engage the user.

Location tracking facility may be configured to track e.g. detect a geographic location of a mobile device associated with a user. Location tracking facility may be configured to detect an exact location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates of a mobile device. Alternatively location tracking facility may be configured to detect an approximate location e.g. by way of triangulation of the mobile device.

The tracking of the geographic location of the mobile device may be performed in any suitable way and using any suitable technologies including without limitation Global Positioning System GPS technologies and terrestrial signaling triangulation technologies. In certain embodiments location tracking facility may track the geographic location of a mobile device relative to e.g. within a particular geographic space e.g. within a site premises such as a shopping mall office building or other structure . One or more wireless signaling transmitters may be employed to boost reception of location tracking signals within a site premises.

In some examples location tracking facility may be configured to determine that a mobile device associated with a user is located within a geographic vicinity associated with an entity. This may be performed in any suitable manner. For example location tracking facility may detect a geographic location of the mobile device and determine that the detected geographic location is within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity.

To illustrate shows a configuration wherein a mobile device is physically located at a particular geographic location within an exemplary network footprint . Network footprint refers to a collective geographic space within which mobile device is able to receive and transmit network communication signals e.g. signals to or from a satellite or a broadcast tower . As represented by arrows in the reach of the network footprint may extend beyond the illustrated portion of the network footprint . Additionally while illustrates a two dimensional network footprint it will be understood that the network footprint may be three dimensional in certain implementations.

Mobile device may include a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer and or any other mobile computing device as may serve a particular implementation. As shown mobile device may be associated with e.g. carried and or used by a user .

The boundaries of geographic vicinity may be user definable and may include any suitable area as may serve a particular application. For example as shown in geographic vicinity may include a circle having a radius that is a predetermined distance from a structure e.g. a building kiosk etc. associated with the entity associated with geographic vicinity . Alternatively geographic vicinity may include a particular premises location e.g. a shopping mall restaurant store meeting place building park body of water neighborhood city etc. . Other boundaries for geographic vicinity may be defined as may serve a particular application.

As shown mobile device and user are initially located outside the boundaries of geographic vicinity . User may then walk or otherwise enter into geographic vicinity as illustrated in . In response location tracking facility may detect that the user has entered geographic vicinity e.g. by detecting a geographic location of mobile device and determining that the detected geographic location is within geographic vicinity .

Returning to application management facility may be configured to perform one or more application management operations. For example in response to location tracking facility determining that a mobile device e.g. mobile device associated with a user e.g. user is located within a geographic vicinity e.g. geographic vicinity associated with an entity application management facility may be configured to automatically identify an executable application associated with the entity and facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity.

Application management facility may automatically identify an executable application associated with an entity in any suitable manner. For example application management facility may detect an identifier associated with the entity and use the detected identifier to identify the executable application. To illustrate application management facility may detect a name of the entity e.g. by analyzing data that defines the geographic vicinity of the entity and search for the name within a look up table or the like that links various entities with their corresponding applications. If a matching name is located within the look up table application management facility may identify a corresponding application within the look up table as being the executable application for which application management facility is to facilitate execution by the mobile device.

Once an executable application is identified application management facility may facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity in any suitable manner. For example application management facility may facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity by determining that the identified executable application already resides on the mobile device e.g. by querying the mobile device for the executable application analyzing data maintained by a service provider associated with the mobile device and or in any other suitable manner and directing the mobile device to begin executing the identified executable application.

To illustrate a user may download and install an application provided by a particular movie theatre a movie theatre application onto a mobile device. The user may subsequently go to the movie theatre and bring with him the mobile device. Location tracking facility may detect entry of the mobile device and consequently the user into a geographic vicinity associated with the movie theatre e.g. location tracking facility may detect entry of the mobile device into a building and or parking lot associated with the movie theatre . In response application management facility may determine that the movie theatre application has already been installed on the mobile device and direct the mobile device to begin executing the movie theatre application e.g. by launching switching to or otherwise initiating the movie theatre application .

To illustrate shows an exemplary interface that may be a part of the movie theatre application and that may be presented in response to application management facility directing the mobile device to begin executing the movie theatre application. As shown various selectable options e.g. selectable options through may be presented within interface . For example the user may select option to view show times at the movie theatre option to buy tickets to movies showing at the movie theatre option to watch trailers of movies showing at the movie theater and or option to view seating maps associated with the movie theater.

As illustrated in this example application management facility may direct the mobile device to automatically begin executing an application associated with an entity upon entry of the mobile device into the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. To this end application management facility may be further configured to direct the mobile device to provide a notification to the user e.g. in the form of an audible or visual alert that the application is about to be executed and or that the application is being executed by the mobile device.

In some alternative examples application management facility may direct the mobile device to present a selectable option to begin executing the identified executable application. In this manner the user may determine whether he or she would like to use the application before it is launched or otherwise executed by the mobile device. To illustrate shows an exemplary interface that may be presented by a mobile device to a user upon entry of the user and his associated mobile device into a geographic vicinity associated with a DVD vending kiosk e.g. a Redbox kiosk . As shown in interface may present the user with a selectable option to begin executing an application associated with the DVD vending kiosk e.g. an application that allows a user to browse select and or purchase a DVD from the DVD vending kiosk . An additional selectable option may also be presented to the user that allows the user to prevent the mobile device from executing the application associated with the DVD vending kiosk.

In some examples application management facility may determine that the identified executable application does not already reside on the mobile device. For example application management facility may query the mobile device for the identified executable application and determine that it has not been installed on the mobile device. Additionally or alternatively application management facility may analyze a list of installed applications on the mobile device that is maintained by a service provider and or any other entity to determine that the identified executable application has not been installed on the mobile device.

In these examples application management facility may facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity by directing the mobile device to present a selectable option to download and install the identified executable application. To illustrate shows another exemplary interface that may be presented by a mobile device to a user upon entry of the user and his associated mobile device into a geographic vicinity associated with a DVD vending kiosk. As shown interface may present the user with a selectable option to download and install an application associated with the DVD vending kiosk. An additional selectable option may also be presented to the user that allows the user to decline the invitation to download and install the application.

In some examples application management facility may detect a selection by the user of the option to download and install the identified executable application i.e. option and in response direct the mobile device to download install and begin executing the identified executable application upon completion of the download and installation. In this manner the user may more readily interact with the application once it is installed. Additionally or alternatively the user may be presented with an option to purchase access to the identified executable application.

In some examples the geographic vicinities of various entities may overlap. For example a shopping mall may house various businesses each providing a distinct application. The geographic vicinities associated with the businesses may overlap depending on the location of the various businesses within the shopping mall. Hence to facilitate execution of one or more of these applications by a mobile device of a user located within the shopping mall application management facility may direct the mobile device to present the user with an option to select one or more of the applications for execution by the mobile device.

To illustrate shows an exemplary interface that may be presented to a user located in a shopping mall. As shown interface lists various businesses i.e. Subway Macey s Footlocker and Gap within the shopping mall that have mobile device applications that may be used by the user while at the shopping mall. To use one of the applications the user may select an option from a plurality of options e.g. options through corresponding to the businesses. For example to use an application associated with Subway the user may select option .

As another example of overlapping geographic vicinities application management facility may facilitate execution of a collaborative application associated with multiple entities. The collaborative application may aggregate application programming interfaces APIs from the multiple entities or otherwise facilitate interaction with each of the multiple entities.

To illustrate shows an exemplary interface that may be a part of a collaborative interface that a mobile device may execute while the mobile device and its user are located within a geographic vicinity associated with both a DVD vending kiosk and a restaurant e.g. while the mobile device and its user are located within a restaurant named Little Caesar s Pizza that has a Redbox DVD vending kiosk located within its premises . As shown interface may include various options e.g. options through that may be selected by the user to access various options associated with both the DVD vending kiosk and the restaurant. For example the user may select option to browse DVD content available within the DVD vending kiosk option to vend a DVD from the DVD vending kiosk option to view the restaurant s menu and or option to order food from the restaurant.

In some examples application management facility may facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity by directing the mobile device to present an interface personalized to the user in accordance with a user profile associated with the user. The personalized interface may be configured to facilitate interaction by the user with the executable application.

For example a user named John may enter a geographic vicinity associated with a bank e.g. a branch of the bank or an automated teller machine ATM associated with the bank . In response application management facility may direct the user s mobile device to present an interface personalized to the user that allows the user to access various services provided by the bank. To illustrate shows an exemplary interface that has been personalized to the user named John. As shown interface may include various options e.g. options through that may be selected by the user to access various personalized services provided by the bank. For example the user may select option to access information regarding his checking account option to access information regarding his savings account option to perform one or more transfers and or option to access one or more other services provided by the bank. In this manner the user may perform one or more bank related actions while waiting in line at the bank or at the ATM sitting in his or her car outside the bank and or otherwise being within the geographic vicinity of the bank.

As another example a user named John may enter an airport. In response application management facility may direct the user s mobile device to present an interface personalized to the user that allows the user to access various options associated with the airport. To illustrate shows an exemplary interface that has been personalized to the user named John. As shown interface may include various options e.g. options through that may be selected by the user to access various options associated with the airport. For example the user may select option to check in for a flight and or view a boarding pass option to view arrival and or departure times option to check the weather at the airport and or at any other destination and or option to locate restaurants located within the airport.

To facilitate personalized interfaces such as those described in connection with application management facility may authenticate the mobile device and or user and provide a level of access by the user to the identified executable application based on the authentication. For example application management facility may verify one or more identities credentials and or permissions of the mobile device and or user e.g. in order to prevent fraud . Application management facility may be further configured to maintain or otherwise have access to data representative of a user profile of the user in order to provide a personalized interface for the user.

In some examples application management facility may be further configured to facilitate completion of one or more transactions between the entity and the user by way of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. To illustrate shows an interface that may be a part of an application associated with a restaurant and that may be presented to a user by way of a mobile device while the user is within the restaurant. As shown interface may include various options e.g. options through that may be selected by the user to access various options associated with the restaurant. For example the user may select option to view the restaurant s menu option to order food from the restaurant and or option to pay a bill for food ordered from the restaurant. Ordering food and paying bills by way of the application associated with interface are merely examples of the many different transactions that may be performed by way of an application executed by a mobile device while a user is located within a geographic vicinity associated with an entity.

As mentioned application management facility may facilitate execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the user is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. In some examples application management facility may also facilitate continued use of the identified executable application even after the user has left the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. However in some examples it may be desirable to prevent the user from using the application after he or she has left the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. For example a business may desire to prevent users from using an application that contains confidential information outside the confines of the business. To this end application management facility may determine that the mobile device is no longer located within the geographic vicinity associated with the business and in response prevent the application from being executed by the mobile device.

The applications and interfaces described herein are merely illustrative of the many different applications and interfaces that may be realized in accordance with the methods and systems described herein. Moreover additional or alternative options and or features may be included in any of the applications and or interfaces described herein.

Returning to storage facility may be configured to maintain location data generated and or used by location tracking facility and application data generated and or used by application management facility . Storage facility may maintain additional or alternative data as may serve a particular implementation.

Application management subsystem may be configured to maintain provide facilitate access to and or otherwise manage applications available for download and installation on mobile device . For example application management subsystem may be implemented by one or more components e.g. servers computing devices etc. associated with a service provider e.g. an app store provider an Internet service provider a wireless carrier etc. that provides application services to one or more users e.g. one or more subscribers .

Mobile device may be implemented by any suitable mobile computing device. For example mobile device may be implemented by a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer and or any other mobile computing device as may serve a particular implementation. In some examples mobile device may be configured to facilitate access by a user to one or more applications managed by application management subsystem . For example mobile device may be configured to download and install one or more applications managed by application management subsystem execute one or more web based applications managed by application management subsystem and or otherwise execute one or more applications managed by application management subsystem .

Application management subsystem and mobile device may communicate using any suitable communication technologies devices networks media and protocols supportive of remote data communications. For example as shown in application management subsystem may be configured to communicate with mobile device over a network and communications links thereto . Network may include one or more networks or types of networks capable of carrying communications and or data signals between application management subsystem and mobile device . For example network may include but is not limited to a mobile phone network e.g. a cellular phone network a mobile data network e.g. a 3G network a 4G network etc. a telecommunications network a wide area network e.g. the Internet a WiMax network a mobile data network etc. other network capable of transporting communications and data between application management subsystem and mobile device and or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Application management subsystem and mobile device may communicate over network using any suitable communication technologies devices media and protocols supportive of remote data communications including but not limited to data transmission media communications devices Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Real Time Protocol RTP User Datagram Protocol UDP Ethernet and any other suitable communications technologies devices media and protocols.

In certain embodiments system may be implemented entirely by application management subsystem or by mobile device . In other embodiments components of system may be distributed across any combination of application management subsystem and mobile device .

To illustrate system may be at least partially implemented by an operating system and or a stand alone application e.g. a vicinity application residing on mobile device . The operating system and or stand alone application may be configured to allow a user to customize the various location based application management features described herein e.g. enable or disable one or more of the location based application management features described herein specify one or more categories or entities of interest etc. .

As another example system may be at least partially implemented by application management subsystem . To illustrate an entity may participate in a location based application distribution service provided by application management subsystem which in this case may be associated with an application distributor e.g. Apple Google a wireless carrier etc. . In accordance with the location based application distribution service the entity may pay the application distributor to define a geographic vicinity associated with the entity and facilitate execution by mobile devices of an application associated with the entity while the mobile devices are located within the geographic vicinity.

In step a location based application management system determines that a mobile device associated with a user is located within a geographic vicinity associated with an entity. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the location based application management system automatically identifies in response to the determination an executable application associated with the entity. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the location based application management system facilitates execution by the mobile device of the identified executable application while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step a location based application management system detects an entry of a mobile device associated with a user into a geographic vicinity associated with an entity. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the location based application management system personalizes in response to the detection and in accordance with a user profile associated with the user an interface provided by the entity and configured to facilitate interaction by the user with an executable application provided by the entity. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the location based application management system directs the mobile device to present the personalized interface to the user while the mobile device is located within the geographic vicinity associated with the entity. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In certain embodiments one or more of the processes described herein may be implemented at least in part as instructions embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium and executable by one or more computing devices. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions from a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions may be stored and or transmitted using any of a variety of known computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any non transitory medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other tangible medium from which a computer can read.

Communication interface may be configured to communicate with one or more computing devices. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem an audio video connection and any other suitable interface.

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting executing and or directing execution of one or more of the instructions processes and or operations described herein. Processor may direct execution of operations in accordance with one or more applications or other computer executable instructions such as may be stored in storage device or another computer readable medium.

Storage device may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of data storage media and or device. For example storage device may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM other non volatile and or volatile data storage units or a combination or sub combination thereof. Electronic data including data described herein may be temporarily and or permanently stored in storage device . For example data representative of one or more executable applications configured to direct processor to perform any of the operations described herein may be stored within storage device . In some examples data may be arranged in one or more databases residing within storage device .

I O module may be configured to receive user input and provide user output and may include any hardware firmware software or combination thereof supportive of input and output capabilities. For example I O module may include hardware and or software for capturing user input including but not limited to a keyboard or keypad a touch screen component e.g. touch screen display a receiver e.g. an RF or infrared receiver and or one or more input buttons.

I O module may include one or more devices for presenting output to a user including but not limited to a graphics engine a display e.g. a display screen one or more output drivers e.g. display drivers one or more audio speakers and one or more audio drivers. In certain embodiments I O module is configured to provide graphical data to a display for presentation to a user. The graphical data may be representative of one or more graphical user interfaces and or any other graphical content as may serve a particular implementation.

In some examples any of the systems subsystems and or facilities described herein may be implemented by or within one or more components of computing device . For example one or more applications residing within storage device may be configured to direct processor to perform one or more processes or functions associated with location tracking facility and or application management facility . Likewise storage facility may be implemented by or within storage device .

In the preceding description various exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. For example certain features of one embodiment described herein may be combined with or substituted for features of another embodiment described herein. The description and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

