---

title: Lens for a camera
abstract: Disclosed is an electronic device comprising an image sensor; a flash adjacent to the image sensor; an image sensor lens covering the image sensor; a flash lens covering the flash, the flash lens defining a chamfer on a flash surface, the flash surface adjacent to the image sensor lens; and a housing for housing the image sensor and the flash.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08836852&OS=08836852&RS=08836852
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08836852
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120919
---
The present disclosure relates to electronic devices having cameras and more particularly to electronic devices having flash lenses.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are sometimes equipped with cameras. Cameras may be used to allow a user to capture a video or a still photograph. Flashes are often used with cameras. Light emanating from such flashes can cause interference or crosstalk with the camera s image sensor.

According to an aspect described is an electronic device comprising an image sensor a flash adjacent to the image sensor an image sensor lens covering the image sensor a flash lens covering the flash the flash lens defining a chamfer adjacent to the image sensor lens and a housing for housing the image sensor and the flash.

According to another aspect described is a combined lens for a camera the camera having a flash and an image sensor the combined lens comprising an image sensor lens for covering the image sensor and a flash lens for covering the flash the flash lens defining a chamfer adjacent to the image sensor lens.

According to another aspect described is a camera assembly comprising a flash an image sensor and a combined lens as described above.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed descriptions in conjunction with the drawings.

Referring first to a front view of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device can be a mobile phone portable computer smartphone tablet computer personal digital assistant a wearable computer such as a watch a television a digital camera or a computer system for example. The electronic device may be of a form apart from those specifically listed above.

The electronic device includes one or more cameras . The cameras are configured to generate camera data such as images in the form of still photographs and or motion video. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with the camera . Components other than the image sensor may be associated with the camera although such other components are may not be shown in the Figures. More particularly the image sensor not shown is configured to produce an electronic signal in dependence on received light. That is the image sensor converts an optical image into an electronic signal which may be output from the image sensor by way of one or more electrical connectors associated with the image sensor . The electronic signal represents electronic image data which may also be referred to as camera data .

In the embodiment illustrated the electronic device includes a rear facing camera . A rear facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear face of the electronic device . That is the rear facing camera may be located on or near a rear face of the electronic device .

In other embodiments not illustrated the electronic device may include a front facing camera instead of or in addition to the rear facing camera. A front facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near the front face of the electronic device . That is the front facing camera may be generally located at or near a front face of the electronic device . The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the front facing camera may be located above or below the display . In at least some example embodiments the front facing camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face. In at least some embodiments the front facing camera may be used for example to allow a user of the electronic device to engage in a video based chat with a user of another electronic device . In at least some embodiments the front facing camera is mounted internally within a housing of the electronic device beneath a region of the front face which transmits light. For example the front facing camera may be mounted beneath a clear portion of the housing which allows light to be transmitted to the internally mounted camera.

In at least some embodiments not shown the electronic device may include a front facing camera and also a rear facing camera. The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera. The fields of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

The electronic device includes a flash . The flash may in at least some embodiments be a light emitting diode LED flash. The flash emits electromagnetic radiation. More particularly the flash may be used to produce a brief bright light which may facilitate picture taking in low light conditions. That is the flash may emit light while an image is captured using the camera . In the embodiment illustrated the flash is located to emit light at the rear face of the electronic device . That is the flash is a rear facing flash in the illustrated embodiment. The electronic device may include a front facing flash instead of or in addition to the rear facing flash to emit light at the front face of the electronic device . The electronic device may have additional camera hardware which may complement the camera .

Still referring to a combined lens covers the image sensor of the camera and the flash . The lens allows light to pass though e.g. from the flash to the exterior of the housing or from the exterior of the housing to the image sensor and prevents debris or dirt from entering into the housing. Dirt or debris that could otherwise enter into the housing could potentially damage the components of the camera and flash . In the embodiment illustrated in a combined camera and flash lens is secured to the housing. For example the combined camera and flash lens may be secured to the housing an adhesive or using snaps or similar attachment mechanism in such a manner so as to be flush with the housing. The combined lens can be transparent and made out of glass or another suitable transparent or translucent material. For example the combined lens can be made out of stained or partially stained glass. The combined lens is described in more detail below.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device of may include a housing which houses components of the electronic device . Internal components of the electronic device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones one or more cameras and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD a flash one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication module and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

The electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents images and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may in at least some embodiments include metadata which may store information about the images . While the metadata is illustrated separately from the images in some embodiments the metadata and the images may be stored together. That is a single file may include both an image and also metadata regarding that image. For example in at least some embodiments the image may be formatted and stored as a JPEG image.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the electronic device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The short range communication module provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication module may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

In the embodiment illustrated the camera is illustrated as being coupled directly with a main processor which controls the camera. In at least some embodiments the camera may include a dedicated image signal processor which may provide at least some camera related functions. For example in at least some embodiments the image signal processor of the camera may be configured to provide auto focusing functions. Functions or features which are described below with reference to the camera application may in at least some embodiments be provided in whole or in part by the image signal processor.

The electronic device also includes a flash . As noted above the flash is used to illuminate a subject while the camera captures an image of the subject. The flash may for example be used in low light conditions. In the example embodiment illustrated the flash is coupled with the main processor of the electronic device . However in other embodiments the flash may be coupled to an image signal processor not shown of the camera which may be used to trigger the flash. The image signal processor may in at least some embodiments control the flash . In at least some such embodiments applications associated with the main processor may be permitted to trigger the flash by providing an instruction to the image signal processor to instruct the image signal processor to trigger the flash .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication module or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules such as applications stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as for example a camera application . The processor may also operate to process data stored in memory associated with the electronic device .

In the example embodiment of the camera application is illustrated as being implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the camera application could be provided by another application or module such as for example the operating system software . Further while the camera application is illustrated with a single block the functions or features provided by the camera application could in at least some embodiments be divided up and implemented by a plurality of applications and or modules.

The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time an image defined in the electronic signals received from the camera . The camera application may also be configured to capture an image or video by storing an image or video defined by the electronic signals received from the camera . For example the camera application may be configured to store an image or video to memory of the electronic device .

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the camera . For example the camera application may be configured to control a camera lens aperture and or a shutter speed. The control of such features may in at least some embodiments be automatically performed by the camera software based on output received from a light exposure meter.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to focus the camera on a subject. For example the camera application may be configured to control an actuator of the camera to move a lens which is comprised of one or more lens elements in the camera relative to an image sensor in the camera . For example when capturing images of subjects which are very close to the camera e.g. subject at macro position the camera application may control the actuator to cause the actuator to move the lens away from the image sensor .

In at least some embodiments the camera application may provide for auto focusing capabilities. For example the camera application may analyze received electronic signals to determine whether the images captured by the camera are in focus. That is the camera application may determine whether the images defined by electronic signals received from the camera are focused properly on the subject of such images. The camera application may for example make this determination based on the sharpness of such images. If the camera application determines that the images are not in focus then the camera application may cause the processor to adjust the actuator which controls the lens to focus the image.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the camera and or to control a zoom associated with the camera . In at least some embodiments the camera application is configured to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. The camera application may in at least some embodiments provide image stabilization for the camera. Image stabilization may reduce blurring associated with movement of the camera .

In at least some embodiments the metadata designating an image as either a primary image or a secondary image may be used when displaying images. For example in at least some embodiments the camera application may provide a slideshow mode in which a slideshow of images may be displayed on a display of the electronic device. The slideshow may exclude images designated as secondary images until a command to toggle to a secondary image is received via an input interface while an image designated as a primary image is displayed. In response to receiving such an input the camera application may cause the secondary image which is associated with the displayed primary image i.e. the secondary image which was captured at approximately the same time as the displayed primary image to be displayed. That is in the slideshow mode the electronic device may only display primary images unless a specific instruction is received instructing the electronic device to display a secondary image.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

Light that emanates from the flash can be used to illuminate a subject while the camera captures the image of the subject. For example light from the flash reflects off the subject and is received at the image sensor associated with the camera while the image of the subject is being captured. The image sensor can be attached to the camera for example. Unwanted light can emanate from the flash and cause interference with the image sensor or with light received at the image sensor which can negatively affect the quality of image or video captured by the camera . For example light emanating from the flash can appear as a reflection or glare on images or video captured by the camera . The severity of the effect of this interference or crosstalk is often directly related to the distance between the flash and the image sensor on the electronic device or associated with the camera . Such interference can be worse if there is a clear or transparent path between the flash and the image sensor through which light can travel. For example light emanating from the flash can reflect off of the flash lens and interfere with the light otherwise received at the image sensor in the camera .

In accordance with an embodiment a combined lens that includes a flash lens and an image sensor lens can be used to mitigate or limit the interference received at the image sensor lens as a result of reflected light that emanated from the flash .

The flash portion of the flash lens is for covering the flash and is transparent to allow light from the flash to pass through. The image sensor portion of the image sensor lens is for covering the image sensor and is also transparent to allow light to pass through into the image sensor associated with the camera . For example when the combined lens is in operation the image sensor portion covers the image sensor and the flash portion covers the flash . The portion of the combined lens that does not comprise the flash portion or the image sensor portion can be translucent or otherwise non transparent.

The combined lens can be mounted on supported by or contained inside of the housing of the electronic device . When the combined lens is mounted on or contained inside of the housing the image sensor portion of the combined lens is configured to cover the image sensor . Similarly when the combined lens is mounted on or contained inside of the housing the flash portion of the combined lens is configured to cover the flash . For example when the combined lens is mounted on or contained inside the housing the combined lens is positioned such that the flash portion covers the flash and the image sensor portion covers the image sensor as shown in described below . The flash portion and the image sensor portion on the combined lens are configured to align with the flash and image sensor respectively when the combined lens is in use or when it is secured to the housing.

The flash lens defines a chamfer adjacent to the image sensor lens . For example the flash lens can have a chamfer on a side or edge that is adjacent to the image sensor lens when the combined lens is secured or supported by or in the housing. Similarly the image sensor lens defines a chamfer adjacent to the flash lens . In one or more embodiments the image sensor lens does not define a chamfer and the flash lens does define a chamfer . The chamfer on the flash lens can be configured such that light emanating from the flash hits the chamfer at substantially a right angle. For example the chamfer defined by the flash lens can be at an angle with the surface of the flash lens . By way of further example the angle between the chamfer on the flash lens and the surface of the flash lens can be in the range of 20 to 60 degrees. Similarly the chamfer on the image sensor lens can be an angle that is in the range of 20 to 60 degrees in relation to the surface of the image sensor lens . In accordance with one or more embodiments the angle can be optimized based upon the flash lens material to maximize the impact of the angle of refraction from the flash lens material to the air. For example the angle can be computed based upon Snell s law of refraction sin sin 

wherein and are the angles of incidence of alight ray crossing the interface between two media with refractive indices nand n. The flash lens material can be the material that the flash lens is made out of. By way of example maximizing an impact of an angle of refraction from the flash lens material to the air can mean to minimize the amount of light that is reflected from the flash lens into the image sensor .

In one or more embodiments the combined lens includes an image sensor lens that does not define a chamfer and a flash lens that does define a chamfer .

In accordance with the example embodiment illustrated in when the combined lens is mounted to the housing e.g. when both the flash lens and the image sensor lens are mounted to the housing the flash portion of the combined lens is aligned with the flash so as to allow light to pass therethrough and the image sensor portion is aligned with the image sensor to allow light to pass therethrough. The combined lens can be connected to the housing such that the combined lens extends from one side of the housing to the other. Or in an alternative embodiment the combined lens covers the flash and image sensor but does not extend to either side of the housing. In a further embodiment the combined lens covers a majority of the rear face or front face as the case may be of the electronic device . The combined lens can be mounted to the housing such that the outer surface of the combined lens or the mask if the mask is attached to the outer surface of the lens is flush with the outer surface of the housing i.e. the rear face in the case of a rear facing camera . In a further embodiment the combined lens is not supported by the housing. For example the combined lens is supported by the camera and or the flash or another component of the electronic device .

In one or more embodiments there are additional lens elements underneath the combined lens that may be between the image sensor and image sensor portion . For example the additional lens elements may be associated with or attached to the camera and controlled by an actuator as described above.

In an alternative embodiment the combined lens is contained within the housing such that a first opening in the housing aligns with the image sensor portion of the lens and a second opening in the housing aligns with the flash portion . Similarly the image sensor and the flash can also be aligned with the first and second openings in the housing respectively so that light can pass through the first and second openings in the housing and through the flash portion and image sensor portion of the combined lens . In such an embodiment the mask and the portion of the combined lens that does not include the flash portion and the image sensor portion may be contained within the housing. In further embodiments there is an adhesive seal on the lens for securing the combined lens to the interior of the housing.

In an embodiment the mask is secured to a surface of the combined lens . For example the mask can be printed on a surface of the combined lens using a screen printing process or can be attached to the combined lens in another manner. The mask can be a thin pliable or resilient sheet of plastic e.g. thinner than the combined lens and is not transparent. For example the mask can be a dark colour e.g. black brown etc. so as to prevent or limit light from passing through. In one or more embodiments the mask defines a flash opening and an image sensor opening. When the mask is secured to the combined lens the flash opening is aligned with the flash portion of the lens such that the mask does not prohibit limit or block light from passing through the flash portion . Similarly when the mask is secured to the combined lens the image sensor opening is aligned with the image sensor portion such that the mask does not prohibit limit or block light from passing through the image sensor portion .

In one or more embodiments there is no mask attached or secured to the combined lens . In an alternative embodiment a portion of the lens not including the flash portion and the image sensor portion is tinted. For example there can be up to a 5 tint on the combined lens .

The shape of the image sensor portion can be different than that of the remainder of the combined lens to accommodate the lens requirements for the image sensor . Similarly the shape of the flash portion can also be different from the shape of the remainder of the combined lens in order to accommodate the needs of the flash . For example in an embodiment the image sensor portion and or the flash portion are concave and the remainder of the combined lens is generally planar. Similarly the arc of the curve of the flash portion can be different from the arc of the curve of the image sensor portion which can also be different from the arc of the curve of the combined lens .

With reference to the combined lens has a bottom surface and a top surface . In the embodiment illustrated in the figures the mask is secured to the top surface . It is recognized that in other embodiments the mask may be secured to the bottom surface or may not be present at all. For example the mask can be laser printed on to the bottom surface of the combined lens . Further the mask can be secured to one either or neither of the flash lens and image sensor lens . The bottom surface of the combined lens is proximal to the flash and the camera which includes the image sensor when the combined lens is secured to or on the housing. The combined lens flash and camera can be configured such that the flash portion forms a lens for the flash and the image sensor portion forms a lens for the image sensor which is part of the camera . For example the flash portion allows light to pass from the flash to exterior of the housing and electronic device . Similarly the image sensor portion of the combined lens allows light to pass from the exterior of the electronic device to the image sensor .

The flash has a flash section proximal the image sensor and the image sensor has an image sensor section that is proximal the flash . The flash section is the point on the flash that is closest to the image sensor . Similarly the image sensor section is the point on the image sensor that is closest to the flash . The distance between the image sensor section and the flash section is intended to measure the distance generally between the flash and the image sensor . The distance between the flash section and the image sensor section may be in the range of 1 to 3 millimeters. Further the distance between the center of the flash and the center of the image sensor may be the range of 7 to 15 millimeters. In some embodiments when the distance between the center of the image sensor and the center of the flash is greater than 15 millimeters the light emanating from the flash does not interfere with the image sensor .

The space between the flash lens and the image sensor lens is shown between the chamfer on the flash lens and the chamfer on the image sensor lens . When the combined lens is secured to or in the housing there may be one or more opaque elements in the space between the image sensor and the flash . Similarly one or more of the edges of the flash lens and the image sensor lens that face each other can be painted with an opaque colour or can have a mask applied to it.

The chamfer on the image sensor lens and the flash lens can be seen in more detail in . The angle formed between an inner surface of the chamfer on the flash lens and a top surface of the flash lens is shown at . The angle can be between 120 and 160 degrees for example. Similarly the angle formed between an inner surface of the chamfer on the image sensor lens and a top surface of the image sensor lens can be between 120 and 160 degrees for example. The angle can be optimized based upon the lens material to maximize the impact of the angle of refraction from the lens material to the air and can be computed based on Snell s law of refraction noted above.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the light that emanates from the flash can be controlled by the angle of the flash lens relative to the chamfer defined by the flash lens . For example light that emanates from the flash that contacts the chamfer at a 90 degree angle or right angle to the chamfer s surface will not be reflected or refracted. Thus the angle that the chamfer makes with the surface of the flash lens can be such that light emanating from the flash reaches the chamfer at a normal 90 degree angle. As noted above the angle can be optimized using Snell s law.

In one or more embodiments paint can be applied to a portion of a surface of the flash lens to assist with controlling or dispersing light that emanates from the flash . For example dark or opaque paint can be applied on the chamfer defined by the flash lens . Similarly in one or more embodiments paint can be applied to a portion of the image sensor lens to assist with controlling or dispersing light that emanates from the flash and that would otherwise be reflected in the direction of the image sensor . For example dark or opaque paint can be applied on the chamfer defined by the image sensor lens . By way of further example paint can be applied to the edge of the flash lens that faces the image sensor lens so that the paint does not interfere with or only minimally interferes with the light that emanates from the flash lens that would not otherwise interfere with the image sensor lens. It recognized that the paint can be applied before or after the lens is secured to the housing.

In an embodiment the lens has a thickness of between 1 millimeter and 1.5 millimeters. It is understood that variations on the dimensions thickness and configuration of the lens may be used.

It is understood that the term combined lens refers to one or more transparent members that can cover the flash and image sensor .

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

