---

title: Method and system for wireless phone recording
abstract: The present invention related to a method for recording a mobile phone call and mobile phone recording system for recording audio from mobile phone calls. An external call is established with the mobile phone. A connection is made between the wireless phone and an audio capture and broadcast device, such as a Bluetooth device. The call recorder application can instruct the Bluetooth device to forward copies of transmit and receive audio back to the call recording application. The internal call can be tagged with an identification. Thereafter, the audio, and data such as SMS and MMS, can be forwarded to a third party database for storage or stored locally for the end user to play back on the phone or transfer to an external device using USB, wireless, or similar data connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479346&OS=09479346&RS=09479346
owner: SILENTPARTNER RECORDING, LLC
number: 09479346
owner_city: Little Egg Harbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120110
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 276 648 filed Oct. 19 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 088 427 which is a continuation in part of Ser. No. 13 164 104 filed Jun. 20 2011 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 037 531 filed Mar. 1 2011 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 881 315 filed Sep. 14 2010 now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 365 558 filed Jul. 19 2010 the entireties of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

The present invention generally relates to data recording a wireless phone call conversation in which an external call is conferenced to or with an internal call on the wireless phone and audio from the internal call can be captured and stored.

Systems which record conversations of calls are known. U.S. Pat. No. 7 502 448 directed to an apparatus and system for transmitting receiving and recording two way conversation data over a wireless network via a wireless communication device. A memory is coupled to the wireless communication device for storing two way conversation data in digital form. A device interface transfers conversation information from the wireless communication device to a remote storage device. A user interface is configured to allow a user of the wireless communication device to access by way of a wireless network the two way conversation data stored in the remote storage device. The user interface includes a plurality of data management functions that allows the user of the wireless communication device to manage by way of the wireless network the two way conversation data stored in the remote storage device. The data management function includes functions for editing and translating the two way conversation data stored in the remote storage device such as searching linking downloading editing playing back converting sending archiving and deleting the two way conversation data stored in the storage location.

WO 2009 040706 is related to conversation recording on mobile telephones with subsequent transfer to a central database. A telecommunication system for managing telecommunication data includes a mobile telephone communication device that is able to make and receive telephone calls via a public telephone network and which has a storage arrangement for storing a telephone communication during a telephone session. A processing facility processes the telephone communication. A transferring means transfers the stored telephone communication from the wireless telephone communication device to the processing facility. The transfer can take place automatically immediately after the telephone session ends or at a later time as determined by a user of the telephone. Also the user can decide whether or not to delete the stored telephone communication. If the user decides to transfer the telephone communication immediately after the telephone session ends this will be effected via a communication channel using the cellular public telephone network and gateway and a data transmission.

It is desirable to provide a method a system for wireless phone recording in which audio can be expeditiously captured and stored as an audio file continuously or on demand as necessary at the wireless phone.

The present invention generally provides a method for recording a wireless phone call and wireless phone recording system for recording audio from wireless phone calls. The wireless phone recording system can have an interface that is seamless and undetectable by the user so that the system can be used for covert applications such as for use by undercover law enforcement personnel or the system can be used as a business security tool installed on all wireless phones issued by an organization.

The wireless phone recording system can include a call recording application. The call recording application on a wireless phone can be configured to run at all times so that all communication on the wireless phone can be recorded. Alternatively the call recording application can be used as an on demand application so that a user can start and stop an audio recording as necessary.

In the method of the present invention an external call is established with the wireless phone. The call recording application establishes an independent internal call using loopback or similar application and conferences the internal call to the external call. This conference may be made via the phone s API or simply by nature that both calls are using the same microphone and speaker devices on the phone for the audio interface to the user. In one embodiment a wireless loopback for example using Bluetooth is established. An application of a Bluetooth device runs on the wireless phone. The application of the Bluetooth device connects to Bluetooth communication services of the wireless phone. Audio of the internal call can be captured and stored at the wireless phone by various methods including but not limited to capture of the packets transmitted between endpoints of the internal call or via audio output software interface on either of the endpoint applications involved in creating the internal call Thereafter the audio can be forwarded to a third party database for storage. The call recording application can produce an audio file that can be used for litigation purposes conversation verification and many other purposes to avoid a hearsay situation. The call recording application can also be used in organizations where they can be required to record all calls in order to comply with legal or regulatory statue.

In one embodiment a connection is made between the wireless phone and an audio capture and broadcast device such as a Bluetooth device. The call recorder application can instruct the Bluetooth device to forward copies of transmit and receive audio back to the call recording application.

Alternatively the user can set a call recording application on the mobile phone to deliver the audio only when desired. In one embodiment a user interface allows a user to enter a predetermined identification which can be tagged to the internal call prior to transfer to the third party database for subsequent expeditious identification of the call. This information can be optionally selected prior to any recording chosen at the end of the recording or entered at the beginning or end of the recording if the desired data element is not present in the predetermined list. The user can select calls to be recorded based on one or more conditions such as for example dialed number information caller ID information calls within a certain radius of a GPS location incoming status and outgoing status.

In one embodiment the user interface allows the wireless phone to be used as a recorder by recording a conversation with a speaker phone microphone. The user can enter a predetermined or user entered identification which can be tagged to the recorded conversation prior to transfer to the third party database for subsequent expeditious identification of the recording.

In one embodiment a remote administrator can initiate recording at the mobile phone. A device of the mobile phone such as for example a microphone camera or alternate device connected with a wired or wireless connection can be activated to initiate recording. The remote administrator can initiate the recording for example by using a short message service SMS message establishing a call with the mobile phone and supplying of a code establishing an Internet connection sensing a Global Positioning Service GPS location or sensing an environment of the user. For example the environment of the user can be related to sensing the speed of movement of the mobile phone sensing a shock to the mobile phone sensing a temperature of the mobile phone sensing a heart rate of a user of the mobile phone and sensing availability of a network of the mobile phone. The third party database can also capture short message service SMS messages and multimedia messaging MMS messages. The third party database can then capture the audio any recorded audio and any data or messages presented independently of the audio and store the data for future use.

Reference will now be made in greater detail to a preferred embodiment of the invention an example of which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numerals will be used throughout the drawings and the description to refer to the same or like parts.

In one embodiment a wireless loopback for example using Bluetooth is established in the wireless phone. Accordingly the call recording application allows the wireless phone to communicate with itself without external network connectivity.

In block the call recording application can conference the external call with the internal call via the phone s API or simply by nature that both calls are using the same microphone and speaker devices on the phone for the audio interface to the user. In block the call recording application can capture an audio stream via either application endpoint which are conferenced to the internal call or audio packets from the internal call or a similar method for capturing audio data. In block any data or messages presented independently of the audio is delivered to the recording server. For example the messages can include short message service SMS messages and multimedia messaging MMS messages. It will be appreciated that other message types using for example text pictures or video utilized by the mobile phone can be delivered to the recording server in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. The audio data can be compressed into a waveform or similar digital audio file in audio format. In block the user can enter a predetermined identification or identification entered manually prior or subsequent to the recording which can be tagged to the recorded conversation prior to transfer to the centralized recording server for subsequent expeditious identification. In block the call recording application can compress the audio or audio packets and can then write the compressed data to local storage on the wireless phone. In block the external call can end and the ending of the external call can trigger the internal call to end.

With reference to flowchart can proceed from A. In block call data such as for example call direction inbound or outbound date time caller number duration dialed number GPS location SMS messages MMS messages or any other data present on the mobile phone or additional attributes about the phone and or call can be saved in the local storage on the wireless phone and can be associated with the one or more files captured for the audio stream or audio packets from the internal call. In block a digital watermark fingerprint or encryption can be associated with the one or more files captured for the audio stream from the application endpoints which are conferenced to the internal call or audio packets from the internal call. In block it is determined from the interface if the end user chooses to record the call if the end user does not choose to record the call the one or more files for the captured audio stream or audio packets from the internal call can be automatically deleted. In block the one or more files for the captured audio stream or audio packets from the internal call can be securely streamed or transferred to one or more third party recorder databases via any wireless data connection available on the wireless phone such as for example cellular data Bluetooth wireless local area network or other connections. In block the one or more audio and data files can be deleted from local storage of the wireless phone once it is verified that the transfer was received by the one or more third party recorder databases. Alternatively the one or more audio and data files can be retained in the local storage of the wireless phone for catalog and playback.

Phone can establish a call to wireless phone or wireless phone can receive a call from phone . Phone can be either a landline connected telephone or a mobile phone. Call recording application can establish a connection with headset or speaker device . Call recording application instructs headset or speaker device to send duplicate copies of transmit and receive audio to Bluetooth device via audio control link and synchronous connection oriented SCO link for receipt at call recording application . Call recording application can convert the captured audio data from headset or speaker device into pulse code modulation PCM packets. Call recording application can compress the audio stream or pulse code modulation PCM packets and store the one or more files for captured audio stream or audio packets from the internal call in local storage using storage module . Call recording application can determine call data and associate the call data with the one or more files for the captured audio stream or audio packets from the internal call. Call recording application can include software for digital watermarking fingerprinting and encryption. One or more audio and or data files from call recording application can be securely streamed or transferred to the one or more third party recorder databases over wireless connection . Call recording application can tag an identification to the one or more audio and or data files .

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to exemplary embodiments of the invention and that modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

