---

title: Method and apparatus for expiring messages in electronic communications
abstract: The present disclosure includes systems and methods for off-the-record communication including expiring messages. An example method comprises receiving an electronic communication from a source device, the electronic communication including at least one expiring message, temporarily storing content of the expiring message in a non-durable memory for a predetermined amount of time, durably storing envelope information associated with the expiring message in a durable memory, and determining whether a recipient device for the expiring message is available to accept transmission of the expiring message and determining whether an expiration event has occurred.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560006&OS=09560006&RS=09560006
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09560006
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120726
---
Typical electronic communications such as email text messages tweets etc. are on the record and their content may be saved in permanent i.e. durable storage at multiple server locations. For example in the case of an email the email may be saved at an email exchange server maintained by the service provider. Thus even if the sender and the recipient wish the communication to be deleted or ephemeral in nature this is not possible. The message usually may always be recovered.

In situations where the participants in a conversation wish the content of certain electronic messages to be maintained as private and ephemeral communications there are conventional services supporting off the record chats. In some such instances the chat messages are not stored by the service provider hosting the service. The communications are facilitated by the service provider simply by forwarding chat messages back and forth between logged in participants. Because messages are not stored in such off the record communications services an intended recipient must be connected to the service at the time the message is transmitted for the message to be delivered.

Off the record communications can be very sensitive and important to those involved. They may be part of a discussion leading to a decision to be made by the participants. Information critical to the decision making process may be exchanged in a series of back and forth communications before a decision is made. Sometimes the back and forth may last for a prolonged period. Thus it can be critical that each participant know about all of the prior communications. Missing a communication can lead to misunderstandings and bad decision making. Alternatively communications among some but not all of the participants can generate uncertainty and potentially mistrust.

As noted conventional off the record systems and methods require receiving parties to be online during the conversation. In the case where a recipient device is not connected such as due to a plane trip or the like a critical message might never be received and the intended recipient might never be informed that they missed an off the record communication. As far as they would be able to determine there would have not been any missed communications while the recipient device was off line.

Conventional systems fail to recognize these significant problems and fail to offer any reasonable solutions. Consequently such conventional systems are flawed in their operation and usefulness. The deficiencies in such conventional systems and methods are exacerbated because some mechanisms for communication such as mobile devices e.g. smart phones are often offline making the conventional off the record communications ineffective and unreliable.

Consequently there is a need for systems and methods supporting electronic communications with expiring messages that maintain the content of a private message for varying amount of times in order to increase the likelihood that the content is delivered to the desired recipient device while ensuring that the content is ephemeral and not susceptible to future discovery.

The present disclosure includes a method of off the record communication at a server including expiring messages comprising receiving an electronic communication from a source device the electronic communication including at least one expiring message temporarily storing content of the expiring message in a non durable memory for a predetermined amount of time durably storing envelope information associated with the expiring message in a durable memory and determining whether a recipient device for the expiring message is available to accept transmission of the expiring message and determining whether an expiration event has occurred.

The method further includes depending on whether the expiring event has occurred transmitting information including one of the content of the expiring message to the recipient device when the recipient device is available to accept transmission of the expiring message before the expiration event has occurred and the envelope information of the expiring message to the recipient device when the recipient device is available to accept transmission of the expiring message after the expiration event has occurred.

In some instances the elapsing of a predetermined time to live which indicates an amount of time the content of the expiring message is stored at the server is considered an expiration event. In other instances viewing the expiring message a predetermined number of times is considered an expiration event. Additionally the content of the expiring message may be permanently deleted from the server after the expiration event has occurred.

Envelope information may comprise any descriptive information pertaining to aspects or properties of the message. For example the envelope information may comprise information indicating a source of the expiring message and time of transmission of the expiring message by the source device. Alternatively the envelope information may consist of the time of transmission by the source device of the expiring message.

The disclosure also includes a system for off the record communication including expiring messages comprising first and second client devices configured to transmit and receive electronic communications including at least one expiring message a server comprising a reception unit configured to receive the expiring message from the first client device a transmission unit configured to transmit the expiring message to the second client device a non durable memory medium connected to the reception unit and configured to temporarily store content of the expiring message and a durable memory medium connected to the reception unit and the transmission unit and configured to durably store envelope information associated with the expiring message.

In this embodiment the content of the expiring message is temporarily stored in the non durable memory until occurrence of an expiration event and the content of the expiring message is permanently deleted from the server upon occurrence of the expiration event. In some instances the second client device comprises a storage medium for temporarily storing the content of the expiring message and the content of the expiring message is permanently deleted from the storage medium after the expiration event has occurred.

The expiration event may be the expiration of a predetermined time to live indicating an amount of time the content of the expiring message is stored at the server. Alternatively the expiration event may be viewing the content of the expiring message a predetermined number of times by the second client device.

Envelope information may comprise any descriptive information pertaining to aspects or properties of the message. In some instances the envelope information consists of the time of transmission by the first client device of the expiring message. In other instances the envelope information comprises information indicating a source of the expiring message time of transmission of the expiring message by the first client device and a predetermined time to live indicating an amount of time content of the expiring message is stored at the server.

The disclosure further includes a method of off the record communication at a client including expiring messages comprising establishing a communication connection with a server and receiving from the server an electronic communication pertaining to an expiring message the expiring message including a predetermined time to live indicative of an amount of time that content of the expiring message is stored at the server wherein depending on the predetermined time to live the electronic communication received from the server is one of the content of the expiring message indicative of what was stored at the server and a notification that the content of the expiring message has expired as a result of the predetermined time to live having passed.

In an example embodiment an electronic communication service provider may host one or more different types of electronic communication services facilitating on the record and off the record communications among users. The communication services may support active communications between concurrently on line and participating users. Examples of such active communications may include but are not limited to instant messaging chat sessions telephone conversations video teleconferences etc. some of which may be on the record and some of which may be off the record. The communication services may also include messaging services supporting the exchange of one or more discrete messages such as text messages emails and the like which are on the record. Concurrent participation and connection to the communication service by the users are not required to exchange one or more on the record discrete messages.

In such example embodiment a method and system is included which provides for expiring messages that are off the record. An expiring message may include an electronic communication with content that has a finite existence and is not permanently i.e. durably even over an extended time maintained in storage e.g. at the servers of the service provider. Thus in the context of such an electronic communication the content of an expiring message in such example is not permanently stored on durable computer readable media. Generally the content of such an expiring message is temporarily stored on computer readable media and is deleted removed extinguished etc. upon the occurrence or shortly after the occurrence of an expiration event.

In another example embodiment an expiring message includes an electronic communication with content that becomes incomprehensible on or shortly after the occurrence of an expiration event. In this example the method and system use an encryption algorithm to encrypt the content of the expiring message and generate an encryption key that can be used to decrypt the content. An example encryption algorithm is a rotating key encryption algorithm. Key generation and or rotation may be random. The encrypted content of the message may be either permanently or temporarily maintained. However in this example case the encryption key associated with the encrypted content has a finite existence and is not permanently maintained in storage e.g. it is not permanently stored on durable computer readable media. At any time between encrypting the expiring message content and the occurrence or shortly after of an expiration event associated with the expiring message the encryption algorithm rotates e.g. changes the encryption key. In this example the occurrence or shortly after of an expiration event also triggers the deletion of the encryption key associated with encrypted content making the content incomprehensible because it cannot be decrypted. In some instances the sending user device may define a user friendly passcode to activate the key decryption. The passcode may be transmitted to the user in any acceptable manner such as by voice electronic message etc. The encrypted message content may also be deleted upon or shortly after the occurrence of an expiration event.

An example of an expiration event includes but is not limited to the passage of a predetermined amount of time which may be referred to as a time to live TTL . Additionally accessing an expiring message s content a predetermined number of times i.e. allowing a user to access or view the content of the expiring message a finite number of times may be considered a predetermined expiration event. Expiration events are not limited to the aforementioned events and may include any conceivable event that is desired to trigger deletion of the content of an electronic message and or an encryption key associated with the content of an electronic message. Additionally more than one expiration event may be associated with a single expiring message. In this scenario the first expiration event to occur triggers deletion of the message s content and or encryption key . In some instances the source of the expiring message i.e. the party that initiates composes and sends the expiring message predefines the expiration event. For example the party initiating the electronic communication may set the TTL of the message content as a specific amount of time e.g. 6 hours after transmission of the expiring message. In other instances the expiration event may be defined by the service provider e.g. after access by the recipient. In some instances the service provider may use a default amount of time as the TTL for the message content of all expiring messages routed through its communications services or a combination of number access instances and TTL or the like.

In some example embodiments expiring messages include descriptive information in addition to message content. The descriptive information pertains to certain aspects or properties of the message such as information identifying the message as an expiring message e.g. an expiring message designator information identifying the source of the message e.g. a username associated with the sender information identifying the destination of the message e.g. username email address telephone number Jabber ID JID uniform resource identifier URI uniform resource locator URL etc. associated with the intended recipient the time and date of message creation the time and date of message transmission information describing an expiration event e.g. a predetermined TTL and the like. In some embodiments the descriptive information is organized into a header of the expiring message. Additionally the descriptive information may be referred to as envelope information record and or metadata .

In some example embodiments a system for off the record communications includes at least two clients and a server. The server resides at a service provider and hosts one or more communications services. Each client can connect to and interact with the communications services hosted by the service provider. For example the clients can connect to a mobile chat hosted by the service provider. Additionally the clients can send and receive off the record electronic communications that include expiring messages. In this embodiment a first client sending or source client initiates composes and transmits an expiring message addressed in a manner to be available to a second client receiving or destination client . Transmission of the expiring message from the source client to the destination client is achieved by routing the expiring message through the server and delivering the expiring message to the destination client when the destination client is able and willing to accept delivery. In some embodiments the source client displays an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a time to live after transmitting the message.

When an expiring message in this example is received by the server the content of the expiring message is stored in non durable e.g. volatile memory and an envelope record of the message is stored in durable e.g. non volatile memory. The envelope record does not include the content of the expiring message only descriptive information e.g. envelope information . In some instances the service provider parses the envelope information to determine one or more expiration events defined by the source client. In other instances the service provider assigns one or more expiration events to the expiring message. The server of this example thereafter monitors the expiring message and deletes the message content as or shortly after the expiration event occurs regardless of whether the expiring message is ever transmitted or accessed by the destination client.

In another embodiment when an expiring message is received by the server an encryption key associated with encrypted message content is stored in non durable memory an envelope record of the message is stored in durable memory and encrypted message content is stored in either durable or non durable memory. In one instance the server receives an expiring message applies an encryption algorithm to encrypt the message s content generates an encryption key that can be used to decrypt the encrypted content and then performs the aforementioned storage. In another instance the encryption algorithm is applied and the encryption key is generated at the source client device whereby the server receives the expiring message including the encryption key and the encrypted message content from the source client device and performs the aforementioned storage. In either instance the server monitors the expiring message and deletes the encryption key associated with the encrypted message content as or shortly after the expiration event occurs regardless of whether the expiring message is ever transmitted or accessed by the destination client. In this embodiment if the destination client device receives the expiring message before the occurrence of an expiration event it can use the encryption key to decrypt the encrypted message content and view the message content. In some instances the source client device may designate a user friendly passcode to activate the decryption. Such passcode may be set by the user or may be randomly generated by the server or other devices.

While an expiring message is awaiting transmission at the server the service provider either determines or is notified of the destination client s ability and willingness to connect to the service such as mobile chat and receive messages. In the situation where the destination client is available and willing to receive the expiring message before an expiration event associated with the expiring message occurs the server transmits the expiring message to the destination client. In some instances the expiring message includes an encryption key and encrypted message content. Thereafter the destination client may temporarily access and review the content of the message. In some embodiments the source client is notified when the expiring message is delivered to the destination client. The destination client may display an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a time to live . In this situation when an expiration event associated with the expiring message occurs both the server and the destination client permanently delete the content and or the encryption key of the expiring message retaining access to only the envelope record of the expiring message.

When the destination client is not available or is otherwise unwilling to receive delivery of the expiring message before an expiration event associated with the message occurs the content and or the encryption key of the message is permanently deleted from the server without transmission to the destination client. By way of example the destination client may be unavailable due to travelling outside the service provider s coverage zone interruption in service loss of power and the like. Upon subsequent connection to the service provider indicating ability and willingness to communicate a notification is sent to the destination client providing the envelope information or the like indicating that a message was sent from the source client but failed to be delivered.

An example communications environment supporting off the record communications is described in detail with respect to . In some example embodiments the communications environment provides multimedia communications services supporting multimedia communications. The illustrated environment is presented as an example and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other group networking environments. To the contrary the description contemplates all implementations of communications environments that support off the record communications that include expiring messages.

Turning to example client devices A and B are connected to a service provider supporting a communications environment that facilitates off the record communications among the client devices A and B. Example client devices A and B include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. In some embodiments the client devices A and B may be connected in the same manner to a communications session. Alternatively the client devices A and B establish different types of connections. In some instances the client devices A and B include similar communications mechanisms. For example the client devices A and B may both be mobile telephones. In other embodiments the client devices and B are different types of devices. For example the client device A may be a mobile telephone and the client device B may be a desktop computer or other client residing on and powered by programmed logic circuits. In some instances the service provider supports off the record communications among more than two client devices illustrated by the dash lined client device of .

In the embodiment illustrated by the client device A communicates with server via a communications channel A. The communications channel typically includes an Internet or mobile communication connection between the client A and the server but could be established by other such communications circuits such closed networks etc. The server often comprises multiple physical servers such as a communications server for maintaining or hosting one or more communications services. Of course each server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine. The server may include a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at one or more physical locations all acting as a unitary service provider as described herein. In this embodiment the server is maintained by a service provider in order to facilitate communication and interaction among individuals e.g. users of the client devices A and B.

In an alternative example embodiment the client device A maintains hosts or establishes a communications service and other client devices such as the client device B in are routed to the communications service at the client device A by server or the like. Additionally in this scenario a plurality of client devices may run one or more processes that enable formation of an ad hoc network to facilitate off the record communications when connection to a service provider is not feasible or undesirable.

Communications services at the communications server are supported by an environment defined by a runtime engine executing at the server . For example the runtime engine may be Google s App Engine. The runtime engine provides the platform for the communications service and supplies resources required for user interaction. The resources of the application engine are available to the communications service by way of an application programming interface API or other connecting application transferring protocol or the like. In some instances multimedia streams are distributed by reflectors distributing combined signals in various protocols such as real time protocol RTP .

In some embodiments communications services such as communications service of support active message exchange between concurrently participating client devices. Examples of active message exchange between concurrently participating client devices include but are not limited to an instant messaging chat session a telephone conversation and a video teleconference. In other embodiments communications services facilitate the exchange of one or more discrete messages between client devices such as a text message exchange and the like. In these embodiments concurrent participation and connection to the communication service among client devices may not be required.

The client device A of includes application s communications client output device e.g. a display and input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . Application s provide the client device with a variety of functionality. Generally application s employ the output device to display information at a graphical user interface GUI and the input device to accept and respond to user input. The application s may include but are not limited to an email client an instant messaging client a text messaging client a video conferencing client e.g. Google Hangouts an Internet browser and or the like. Additionally application s may include an encryption algorithm e.g. a rotating key encryption algorithm to encrypt and or decrypt data residing at the client device A automatically or upon the providing of a passcode. In some embodiments the application s reside at a location external to the client devices. The client device B of may include the same or similar features as the client device A.

The communications client further includes a communications module that enables output device to display information at the GUI . The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the communications server allowing a user of the client device A in to use one or more communications services. Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client device A to a network such as the Internet using network protocol techniques including by way of example transmission control protocols and internet protocols. In this manner multiple client devices e.g. A and B may join or connect to the same communications service hosted at the communications server . In some embodiments the communications client and or the communications module at the client device A enables the user to reside in a location where other client devices may join and communicate. In other instances the communications client and or the communications module enables the user to post or upload a message for a specified recipient who may or may not be concurrently connected to the service provider.

Once connection to a communications service is established a communications channel e.g. channel A between the communications client and the communications server exchanges data such as audio video text and or other information. In some embodiments the data exchanged between the communications client and the communications server is optimized based at least in part on the hardware and or software capabilities of client device A. For example if the client device A is a mobile device connecting to the communications service by way of a bandwidth limited path such as a cellular network communications server may optimize the number and quality of the audio video text and or other information sent to the client device A. Furthermore the communications client may dynamically adjust the bit rate required to send the information to the communications server by for example reducing the quality of the audio video text and or other information being sent to the communications server .

GUI is an illustrative example of a GUI from which connection to a communications service may be initiated and sustained. In some embodiments GUI includes information about one or more other client devices connected to the communications service . The GUI may also include notifications of events and other information relevant to the user of the client device A.

In order to establish a connection to a communications service a user of client device A interacts with the input device and or the GUI to cause the communications client to generate a request to connect to the communications service. For example GUI may include a New Message button that the user activates in order to initiate a new connection to a service hosted by the service provider. In response to the user activating the New Message button communications client sends a request to initiate a new connection with the communications service to the communications server which establishes the new connection. Thereafter the communications server facilitates communications including off the record communications between the client device A and one or more other client devices e.g. the client device B.

In some embodiments the client device A is automatically prompted or notified of existing communications by the service provider upon establishing a connection to the service provider. In this example embodiment one or more discrete messages reside at the service provider e.g. on the server intended for the user of the client device A. Upon connection of the client device A to the communications service the server notifies the user of the messages. Additionally the server may automatically push the messages to the client device A.

Referring now to one example of the client device A is illustrated. In general many other embodiments of the client device A may be used as long as they support at least limited participation in the communications sessions including off the record communications. In the example embodiment of the client device A includes one or more processors memory network interface one or more storage devices power source output device and input device . The client device A also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client device . In a conventional fashion each of components and are interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications. The processors and or the operating system may include or be associated with a system clock.

As illustrated the processor s are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within the client device A. For example the processor s execute instructions stored in the memory or instructions stored on the storage devices . The memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device during operation. In some embodiments the memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device A is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . The memory maintains program instructions for execution by the processor s .

The storage device s also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. The storage device s are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than the memory . The storage device s may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples the storage device s include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device A uses the network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. The network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth 3G 4G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and universal serial bus USB . In some embodiments the client device A uses the network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The client device A includes one or more input devices . The input device is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Non limiting examples of the input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device A. The output device is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. The output device may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of the output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

The client device A includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client. Examples of the power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device A includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device A. For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of the communications client with the processor s memory network interface storage device s input device output device and the power source . As illustrated in the communications client includes the communications module . Each of the communications client and the communications module typically includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device . For example in one example embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device A to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In some example embodiments the communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the client device A. In other embodiments the communications client receives input from one or more of the input devices of the client device A. The communications client preferably receives textual audio and video information associated with a communications service from other client devices communicating via the communications service. In some instances the communications client and or communications module may include an email client an instant messaging client a text messaging client a video conferencing client e.g. Google Hangouts an Internet browser and or the like.

Turning to one example of a server facilitating off the record communications is illustrated. The server includes receiver transmitter durable memory non durable memory controller and timer . In general the controller controls the overall operation of the server . Additionally the controller may interact with one or more applications to apply an encryption algorithm such as a rotating key encryption algorithm to data residing at the server. The units of the server may be implemented in a single programmed logic circuit residing at a single physical location or separate programmed logic circuits residing at one or more physical locations. Alternatively the units may be implemented as one or more modules residing on non transitory computer readable media. In some instances the server of additionally includes all of the functionality previously described in accordance with the server of .

The receiver transmitter of facilitates the exchange of data between the server and one or more client devices including the exchange of off the record communications and expiring messages. The receiver transmitter may include a network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. The network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth 3G 4G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and universal serial bus USB . In some embodiments the receiver transmitter uses the network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the client device A of . In other embodiments the receiver transmitter uses the network interface to communicate with an external device over a wired connection.

In some embodiments a client device initiates a connection to a communications service hosted by the server by sending a request to connect to the server . The request to connect is received by the receiver transmitter and processed to establish the connection. Once connection to the server and or a specific communications service hosted by the server is established the receiver transmitter exchanges data with the client device via a communications channel e.g. channel A. In other embodiments the server attempts to initiate a connection to a client device by sending a query via the receiver transmitter to the client device to determine the ability and willingness of the client device to communicate. When the client device is able and willing to communicate a communications channel is established between the client device and the receiver transmitter of the server .

The durable memory includes one or more non transient computer readable storage media. The durable memory is generally configured to store larger amounts of information than the non durable memory described below . The durable memory may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples the durable memory includes non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. In some embodiments of the communications environment supporting off the record communications of a record e.g. envelope information of an expiring message is permanently i.e. durably stored by the durable memory when the server receives the expiring message. In one example embodiment the content of an expiring message is temporarily stored in the durable memory . In another example embodiment encrypted message content of an expiring message is stored in the durable memory .

Non durable memory also includes one or more non transient computer readable storage media. In some embodiments the non durable memory includes a temporary memory i.e. an area for information not to be maintained when the server is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . In some embodiments of the communications environment supporting off the record communications of content which may be encrypted of an expiring message is temporarily stored by the non durable memory when the server receives the expiring message. In some instances an encryption key associated with the content of an expiring message is temporarily stored by the non durable memory .

The server of also includes a timer . The timer is any device for calculating or measuring the passage of time. In some embodiments the timer also informs the server of the current date and time. In some instances the server uses the timer to monitor an expiring message to determine whether an expiration event has occurred. For example the time can be used to determine whether a TTL associated with an expiring message has passed. In one embodiment the timer is a system clock associated with the server .

Turning to an example configuration of the client device A when it generates an expiring message is described. In this example the client device A is operating as a source client. A user of the client device A interacts with the input device and or the GUI to connect to a communications service e.g. a mobile chat service hosted by the service provider and to generate an expiring message . In some instances the GUI displays an application interface which allows the user and interact with the application s associated with client device A. In one embodiment application s include a mobile chat client. In some examples the application interface is a graphical display that is not interactive.

Generating the message includes but is not limited to identifying the message as an expiring message inputting a destination e.g. username email address associated with a desired recipient of the message and inputting the content of the message. In some instances identifying the message as an expiring message is achieved by actuating or selecting an off the record communications switch or dialog box displayed on the GUI . In some embodiments generating the expiring message additionally includes associating one or more expiration events with the message. For example the user may interact with the input device to input numbers representing a TTL of the expiring message.

The icon of may appear as a result of identifying the message as an expiring message. Alternatively the icon is displayed after the expiring message is transmitted from the source client device A. In some instances the icon is an active representation of the expiration event. For example when the expiring message is associated with a TTL the icon may depict a clock or timer that actively counts down until expiration of the TTL. Alternatively when the content of the expiring message is limited to a predetermined number of views the icon may depict the remaining number of times the content can be viewed updated after each view. Icon is not limited to these examples and may be any icon indicating that the message is an expiring message.

In some embodiments the information contained in the header is used by the service provider. For example the server of may use the header to determine expiration events associated with the expiring message the destination of the expiring message whether the message has been accessed by the destination client and the like. In some embodiments information contained in the header is actively updated throughout the lifetime e.g. from the message s creation or transmission to the occurrence of an expiration event associated with the message of the expiring message .

As shown in when the expiring message is delivered before an expiration event the client device B may receive the same header and content of the expiring message as described in . Once received the GUI displays the content of the expiring message . In this example the user of client device B can access and consume the content of expiring message until an expiration event associated occurs. In some embodiments the GUI additionally displays the icon indicating that the message is an expiring message. The icon may be the same visual representation described in accordance with . In some embodiments the client device B uses the information in the header . For example the client device B may use the header to determine expiration events associated with the expiring message. In another example the client device B updates the icon based on information extracted from the header . In this embodiment as soon as or shortly after an expiration event associated with the expiring message occurs the client device B permanently deletes the content of the expiring message . As described the service provider also permanently deletes the content of the expiring message as soon as or shortly after the expiration event Occurs.

In some embodiments the GUI of the client device B displays two or more expired messages as a single graphic. In these embodiments a user of client device B is not required to scroll through many expired messages to locate and view other messages e.g. non expired messages and conventional messages . Additionally the single graphic may be interactive. For example the single graphic can be expanded to see properties of individual expired messages and then minimized into the single graphic thereafter.

Turning now to one example method of an off the record communications environment such as the off the record communications environment described in is described.

Step A source client generates an expiring message. In some embodiments generating the message includes indicating that the message is an expiring message inputting a destination e.g. username email address associated with a desired recipient of the message and inputting the content of the message.

Step optional In some instances the source client associates one or more expiration events with the expiring message. For example the user of the source client may interact with an input device to input numbers representing a TTL of the expiring message.

Step After initiating composing and addressing the expiring message to a specific destination the source client transmits the expiring message. In some embodiments transmitting the message includes establishing a connection between the source client and the communications service hosted by the server associated with the service provider. In other embodiments this connection is established in one or more of the previous steps. Additionally the source may display an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a time to live .

Step The server receives the expiring message. In this example content of the expiring message is temporarily stored in non durable memory. In some instances non durable memory is volatile memory. In another example content of the expiring message is stored in a durable memory. However when stored in durable memory the service provider ensures that the content of the expiring message is only temporarily stored. Non volatile memory is an example of durable memory. The record of the expiring message is permanently stored in durable memory.

The server may also determine the expiration event s associated with the expiring message. This may be accomplished by examining the record of the expiring message to determine expiration events defined by the source client. In some situations the source client may not define an expiration event associated with the expiring message. In these situations the server may assign one or more expiration events to the expiring message.

Step In the case where an expiration event has occurred at step the server permanently deletes the content of the expiring message from any and all storage media. Additionally the server may update the record to reflect changes to the expiring message.

Step The server notifies both the source and destination clients that the expiring message failed to be delivered. The server may transmit the record of the expiring message to either or both of the clients.

Step In some instances upon receiving notification from the server that the expiring message failed to be delivered either or both clients display the envelope information of the expiring message.

Step In the case where an expiration event has not occurred at step the server either determines or is notified of the destination client s ability and willingness to connect to the communications service and to receive messages. If the destination client is unavailable and or unwilling to accept delivery of the message the server continues to monitor the expiring message and the destination client.

Step In the situation where the destination client is available and willing to receive the expiring message before an expiration event associated with the expiring message occurs the server transmits the expiring message to the destination client. In some instances the server transmits both the record and the content of the expiring message. In other instances the server transmits only the content of the expiring message and the destination client generates a record of the message.

Step The destination client receives the content and in some cases the record of the expiring message. Thereafter the destination client may temporarily access and consume the content of the message. In some embodiments the source client is notified when the expiring message is delivered to the destination client. The destination client may display an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a TTL .

Step The server and the destination client monitor the expiring message and determine whether an expiration event occurs. If an expiration event has not occurred the destination client may continue to access and consume the content of the expiring message.

Steps and In the case where an expiration event has occurred both the server and the destination client permanently delete the content of the expiring message from any and all storage media. Additionally either or both the server and the destination client may update the record to reflect changes to the expiring message.

Step In some instances both clients display the record information associated with the expiring message after an expiration event occurs.

Turning to an example embodiment of a method of off the record communication at a server such as the server of is illustrated.

Step The server receives an expiring message. The expiring message may be generated and transmitted to the server as described above.

Step In this example content of the expiring message is temporarily stored in non durable memory. In some instances non durable memory is volatile memory. In another example content of the expiring message is stored in a durable memory. However when stored in durable memory the service provider ensures that the content of the expiring message is only temporarily stored. Non volatile memory is an example of durable memory.

Step The record of the expiring message is permanently stored in durable memory. In any of steps the server may determine the expiration event s associated with the expiring message. This may be accomplished by examining the record of the expiring message to determine expiration events defined by the source client. In some situations the source client may not define an expiration event associated with the expiring message. In these situations the server may assign one or more expiration events to the expiring message.

Step The server monitors the expiring message and determines whether an expiration event has occurred.

Step In the case where an expiration event has not occurred at step the server either determines or is notified of the destination client s ability and willingness to connect to the communications service and receive messages. If the destination client is unavailable and or unwilling to accept delivery of the message the server continues to monitor the expiring message and the destination client.

Step In the situation where the destination client is available and willing to receive the expiring message before an expiration event associated with the expiring message occurs the server transmits the expiring message to the destination client. In some instances the server transmits both the record and the content of the expiring message. In other instances the server transmits only the content of the expiring message and the destination client generates a record of the message.

Step The server continues to monitor the expiring message and determine whether an expiration event has occurred.

Step In the case where an expiration event has occurred at either step or step the server permanently deletes the content of the expiring message from any and all storage media. Additionally the server may update the record to reflect changes to the expiring message.

Step The server notifies both the source and destination clients that an expiration event has occurred. The server may transmit the record of the expiring message to either or both of the clients.

The example embodiment of describes a method of off the record communication at a source client such as the client device A of .

Step The source client establishes a connection to the communications service hosted by the server at the service provider. In some instances establishing a connection to the communications service is accomplished by manipulating the input device and or the GUI of the client device A to interact with the application s and or the communications client .

Step A source client generates an expiring message. In some embodiments generating the message includes indicating that the message is an expiring message inputting a destination e.g. username email address associated with a desired recipient of the message and inputting the content of the message.

Step optional In some instances the source client associates one or more expiration events with the expiring message. For example the user of the source client may interact with an input device to input numbers representing a time to live of the expiring message.

Step After initiating composing and addressing the expiring message to a specific destination the source client transmits the expiring message. The source may display an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a TTL .

Step Either or both of the source client and the server monitor the expiring message and determine whether an expiration event has occurred. In the case where only the server monitors the expiring message the server transmits a notification to the source client when an expiration event occurs.

Step In the case where an expiration event has occurred at step the source client displays the record of the expiring message.

Step In the case where an expiration event has not occurred at step the source client displays an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a time to live .

Step The source client determines whether the expiring message has been delivered to the intended recipient. This may be accomplished by receiving a delivery notification from the server receiving a return message from the destination client acknowledging receipt of the expiring message or the like.

Step When the expiring message has been successfully delivered the source client displays a message or notification indicating that the expiring message has been delivered to the destination.

The example embodiment of describes a method of off the record communication at a destination client such as the client device B of .

Step The destination client establishes a connection to the communications service hosted by the server at the service provider. In some instances establishing a connection to the communications service is accomplished by manipulating the input device and or the GUI of the client device B to interact with the application s and or the communications client .

Step When an expiring message addressed in a manner to be available to the destination client resides at the server the server monitors the expiring message and determines whether an expiration event has occurred. In the case where an expiring message for the destination client resides at the server and an expiration event has occurred the destination client may receive a notification from the server regarding the expiring message but does not receive the content of the message. Alternatively where an expiring message for the destination client resides at the server and an expiration event has not occurred the content of the expiring message is delivered to the destination client.

Step In the case where the destination client is notified of an expiring message but does not receive the message s content i.e. an expiration event occurred before the expiring message was delivered to the destination client the destination client displays a record of the expiring message. In some embodiments the record may be included in the notification received from the server. In other embodiments the destination client generates a record based upon information received from the server.

Step In the case where the destination client receives the content of the expiring message at step the destination client may temporarily access and consume the content. In some embodiments the destination client temporarily stores the content of the expiring message in a non durable memory. In some embodiments the destination client may receive both the content and the record of the expiring message. In other embodiments the destination client generates a record based upon information received from the server.

Step The destination client may display an icon or other visual representing an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. a clock icon indicating a TTL .

Step The destination client monitors the expiring message and determines whether an expiration event occurs. If an expiration event has not occurred the destination client may continue to access and consume the content of the expiring message.

Steps and In the case where an expiration event has occurred the destination client permanently deletes the content of the expiring message from any and all storage media. Additionally the destination client may update and or display the record to reflect changes to the expiring message.

Step optional In some instances the server applies an encryption algorithm to the expiring message to encrypt the message s content and generates an encryption key that can be used to decrypt the message s content. The encryption algorithm may be a rotating key encryption algorithm and key generation and or rotation may be random. In some instances the encryption key may be activated through the use of a user friendly passcode such passcode being set in any acceptable manner such as randomly or by a user. In other cases encryption is executed at the source client. In these cases the expiring message received by the server at step includes encrypted message content and an encryption key associated with the encrypted content.

Step In this example the encryption key associated with the encrypted message content is temporarily stored in non durable memory. In some instances non durable memory is volatile memory.

Step The record of the expiring message is permanently stored in durable memory. The encrypted content of the message may be either permanently or temporarily stored. In any of steps the server may determine the expiration event s associated with the expiring message. This may be accomplished by examining the record of the expiring message to determine expiration events defined by the source client. In some situations the source client may not define an expiration event associated with the expiring message. In these situations the server may assign one or more expiration events to the expiring message.

Step The server monitors the expiring message and determines whether an expiration event has occurred.

Step In the case where an expiration event has not occurred at step the server either determines or is notified of the destination client s ability and willingness to connect to the communications service and receive messages. If the destination client is unavailable and or unwilling to accept delivery of the message the server continues to monitor the expiring message and the destination client.

Step In the situation where the destination client is available and willing to receive the expiring message before an expiration event associated with the expiring message occurs the server transmits the expiring message to the destination client. In this case the server transmits at least the encrypted message content and the encryption key that can be used to decrypt the content. In some examples the encryption key may be transmitted separately. In other instances the encryption key may be activated by a user friendly passcode determined in any acceptable manner such as by the user or randomly. The passcode may be transferred to the user in any manner e.g. verbally by electronic communication etc. The server may also transmit the record of the expiring message. Alternatively the server does not transmit the record and the destination client generates a record of the message.

Step The server continues to monitor the expiring message and determine whether an expiration event has occurred.

Step In the case where an expiration event has occurred at either step or step the server permanently deletes the encryption key associated with the encrypted content of the expiring message from any and all storage media. The server may also delete the encrypted content from any and all storage media. Additionally the server may update the record to reflect changes to the expiring message.

Step optional In situations where the server applies the encryption algorithm to the expiring message to encrypt the message s content and generates an encryption key that can be used to decrypt the message s content the server also rotates the encryption key. Encryption key rotation may be random. In these situations key rotation may occur any time between encrypting the expiring message content step and the occurrence or shortly after of an expiration event associated with the expiring message e.g. step .

Step The server notifies both the source and destination clients that an expiration event has occurred. The server may transmit the record of the expiring message to either or both of the clients.

Note that while client device A is described as a source client device and client device B is described as a destination client device both client devices A and B can function as either or both source and destination clients.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Embodiments of this invention are described herein. Variations of those embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

