---

title: Vehicle recognition
abstract: System, method, and computer program product are provided for using real-time video analysis to provide information about vehicles to a user. Through the user of real-time vision object recognition an image of a vehicle VIN number or a portion of a vehicle may be captured using an image capture device. The VIN number or the portion the vehicle that was captured via the real-time video analysis may be analyzed to determine information about the vehicle. The information may include information about the vehicle, such as the make, model, year, price, vehicle history, and the like. Furthermore, information about the individual's finances, such that an individual may know budgeting of purchasing a vehicle. The information about the vehicle and financial information about purchasing the vehicle is presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873807&OS=08873807&RS=08873807
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08873807
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 478 419 filed Apr. 22 2011 entitled Vehicle Recognition the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have addition features that are becoming increasing more common and standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. Yet although mobile devices have cameras to capture images the mobile devices software is not advanced to process images especially those that are real time. Such software also does not provide any connection between real time images and financial information of the user.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with providing the user information relating to a vehicle. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with vehicle recognition and providing the user specific information relating to the specific vehicle of interest. In specific embodiments the data that is matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile device users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

According to an embodiment an image capture device is positioned to view at least a portion of a vehicle. An image of at least a portion the vehicle is captured and information about the vehicle is determined based on the image. Such information is presented to the user.

According to embodiments the information is details about the vehicle such as a car history report wreckage information general features about the car and the like. According to other embodiments the information relates to financial information a user may desire to know when the user is looking to buy the car such as how much a vehicle loan would be and or how much buying the vehicle will impact the user s budget. Other embodiments are discussed and are within the scope of this application.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for vehicle recognition comprising identifying an image of the at least a portion of a vehicle in proximate location to a mobile device of a user receiving via the mobile device the image of the at least a portion of the vehicle determining information about the vehicle based on the image of the at least a portion of the vehicle and presenting the information about the vehicle to a user via the mobile device.

In some embodiments the information about the vehicle comprises information about the make model and price of the vehicle. The information about the vehicle may also comprise information about the maintenance history of the vehicle. The information about the vehicle may also include information relating to user financial data.

In some embodiments the invention further comprises analyzing the user financial data compared to the information about the price of the vehicle to determine the user s ability to afford purchasing the vehicle.

In some embodiments identifying an image of the at least a portion of the vehicle further comprises capturing real time video stream of the at least a portion of the vehicle. Identifying the image of the at least a portion of the vehicle may further comprise capturing an image of the VIN number of the vehicle. Identifying the image of the at least a portion of the vehicle may still further comprise capturing an image of a portion of the exterior of the vehicle. Identifying the image of the at least a portion of the vehicle may further comprise capturing an image of a portion of the interior of the vehicle.

In some embodiments presenting the information about the vehicle to the user comprises superimposing the information about the vehicle over the vehicle over real time video that is capture by the mobile device.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The present application is related to object recognition and augmented reality AR presentment associated with vehicle identification. Object recognition and AR technology analyzes real time video data location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing . As discussed later with regard to the figures AR can be applied to vehicle recognition and processes systems related thereto.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with identifying vehicles and services related thereto. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with vehicle recognition and determining information and or services which may be beneficial based on such vehicle recognition. In specific embodiments the data that is matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis. More specific embodiments are disclosed below with regard to .

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer a camera a positioning system device one or more chips etc

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or a datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server.

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application and or an AR presentment application . The object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the chip . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application from a server.

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The object recognition application may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the object recognition application may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine utilizing the object recognition application has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine and or the object recognition application may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine and or the object recognition application may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object

The chip may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition and or AR functionality to the mobile device . Generally the chip will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application identifies as having a certain marker s . The chip and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the chip may provide the object recognition and or the AR functionality to the mobile device .

The object recognition application provides the mobile device with object recognition capabilities. In this way objects such as products and or the like may be recognized by the object itself and or markers associated with the objects. In this way the object recognition application may communicate with other devices on the network to determine the object within the real time video stream.

The AR presentment application provides the mobile device with AR capabilities. In this way the AR presentment application may provide superimposed indicators related to the object in the real time video stream such that the user may have access to the targeted offers by selecting an indicator superimposed on the real time video stream. The AR presentment application may communicate with the other devices on the network to provide the user with indications associated with targeted offers for objects in the real time video display.

Of note while illustrates the Chip as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the Chip functionality may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the Chip may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the Chip is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides AR capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the Chip functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an application interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application AR presentment application and or the chip . The application interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the application interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an AR presentment application a web browser application an SMS application an email application etc. In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an API.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an environment in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture real time video of an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing real time video of the surrounding environment . The real time video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with a camera capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to the mobile device . A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the mobile device to identify specific objects . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In one embodiment the marker is a WIN number on a vehicle. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus marker for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots of a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the object recognition application to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the object recognition application may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the object recognition application does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within chip or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like. For example the marker may be a make model of a vehicle and the object recognition application may automatically recognize the make model year of the vehicle based on the shape size color features and the like of the vehicle. The marker such as a VIN number may contain or be text and as such the mobile device could include a module to extract the text using optical character recognition OCR routines. Such text can then be used such as in the present example of a VIN number the VIN number after extraction can be used to identify a particular vehicle and to gather various information about that vehicle such as the owner s name etc.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the AR presentment application is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display . The virtual image is generally a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the virtual image and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the virtual image may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the virtual image information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the virtual image .

In embodiments in which the virtual image provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the virtual image by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the virtual image in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the virtual image utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the virtual image is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the virtual image onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentment application to merely identify an object just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the virtual image . The mobile device is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the virtual image may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The virtual image may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image . Additionally the virtual image may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image. In other embodiments the virtual image may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the virtual image may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the virtual object . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a virtual object associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed virtual objects . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

It should be understood that the vehicle can be a car truck SUV boat airplane equipment or the like that has a VIN number. In other embodiments the present invention could also work with machinery or equipment such as a chainsaw or gun which have serial numbers or some sort of identification numbers. The present application is discussed herein with regard to a vehicle but the present invention should not be limited to a vehicle and could be any device that has identifying elements or numbers text.

Turning to in this figure the image capture can be of a portion of a vehicle. By capturing at least a portion of the vehicle the vehicle can be recognized. For example by capturing the style of the windshield or the style of the hood the vehicle may be identified by make model year vehicle information etc. Other parts of the car may also be recognized. Such as a vehicles tail lights grill side panels and or the like. For example the tail lights may be recognized as being specific to one make model of a vehicle.

It should be understood that the whole vehicle can also be captured as is illustrated in . This allows the full vehicle body style to be analyzed to determine the make model and or year of the vehicle. Other information can also be determined such as the paint color upgrade features etc.

Also noted in the rear of the vehicle may be captured which may include the reading of the type of car e.g. Jeep Ford etc. . The license plate or other identifying objects specific to the particular vehicle may be captured as well.

Capturing of the vehicle allows the user to receive data regarding the vehicle. This data may include but is not limited to vehicle pricing accidents replacement parts purchase history mileage make model year original color original specifications social networking comments about the vehicle consumer reports reviews posts of data regarding the vehicle on blogs magazines webpages or the like and or the like.

In some embodiments the image contains text. The text in block may be extracted and compared with vehicle VIN numbers stored in a database. In decision block it is determined if the text in the image matches a VIN number or partial VIN number. If the text does not match a VIN number other operations are performed to determine the vehicle in the captured image as illustrated in block . The text may provide an indication as to the brand make model year etc. of the vehicle in the captured image. In this way the system may still be able to utilize the captured text to determine information about the vehicle. If it is determined in decision block that the text is a VIN number it is first recognized that the number captured is a VIN number in block . At that point the system may retrieve the information about the vehicle associated with the VIN number recognized as illustrated in block .

Referring back to decision block if the image does not contain text the system in block may recognize that the image relates to a vehicle. At that point in block the system determines information about the vehicle. The information about the vehicle may include but is not limited to the make model year user history color specifications mileage price information accident history maintenance history and or the like.

At block the information about the vehicle from block and the information about the vehicle s VIN number from block converge and information is presented to the user about the vehicle. The information is presented to the user via the user s mobile device. The information presented may include but is not limited to the make model year user history color specifications mileage price information accident history maintenance history and or the like.

In some embodiments as illustrated in block the system may determine information about the user s financial situation. Then an analysis of the user s financial situation is performed relative to the information obtained about the vehicle from block and as illustrated in block . Once the analysis is completed it is presented to the user at the user s mobile device. As illustrated in block financial information relating to the user owning the vehicle is presented to the user via his her mobile device. Financial information relating to the user owning the vehicle may include but is not limited to budgeting information particular to the user car financing information etc.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

