---

title: System and method for graphically displaying market related data using fixed size bars
abstract: A system and method are provided for displaying market related data, such as traded volume at each price level, or any other trader-selected values, using one or more fixed size bars. In one preferred embodiment, a graphical display interface is provided and includes a plurality of fixed size bars that display traded volume at different price levels. In such an embodiment, the length of each bar may correspond to a predefined maximum value, and each bar may be progressively color-coded using a first graphical format to represent traded volume that is lower than the maximum value. If the traded volume exceeds the maximum value, the overflow value may be represented by progressively color-coding the bar using a second graphical format that may be used in relation to the first graphical format color-coding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538862&OS=08538862&RS=08538862
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08538862
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121213
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 372 462 filed Feb. 13 2012 entitled System and Method for Graphically Displaying Market Related Data Using Fixed Size Bars now U.S. Pat. No. 8 355 981 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 095 520 filed Apr. 27 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 140 428 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 860 306 filed Aug. 20 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 958 045 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 415 344 filed May 1 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 801 800 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 785 816 filed Feb. 24 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 792 741 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. More specifically the present invention relates to a system and method for displaying market and trader related data such as traded volume related information using fixed size bars.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network instead of a trading floor to facilitate trading in an efficient versatile and functional manner. Electronic exchanges have made it possible for an increasing number of people to actively participate in a market at any given time. The increase in the number of potential market participants has advantageously led to among other things a more competitive market and greater liquidity.

With respect to electronic exchanges buyers and sellers may log onto an electronic exchange trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected buyers and sellers may typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. Examples of tradeable objects may include but are not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable object such as a class of tradeable objects.

When a trader selects a tradeable object traders may access market data related to the selected tradeable object s . Referring to an example communication that might occur between an electronic exchange and a client terminal in accordance with the preferred embodiments is shown. During a trading session market data in the form of messages may be relayed from a host exchange over communication links and to a client terminal generally indicated as . As illustrated in intermediate devices such as gateway s may be used to facilitate communications between the client terminal and the host exchange .

The market data contains information that characterizes the tradeable object s order book including among other parameters order related parameters and the inside market which represents the lowest sell price also referred to as the best or lowest ask price and the highest buy price also referred to as the best or highest bid price . In some electronic markets market data may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available in the market at certain buy price levels and quantities available in the market at certain sell price levels.

In addition to providing the tradeable object s order book information electronic exchanges can offer different types of market information such as total traded quantity for each price level last traded price last traded quantity or order fill information. Typically a trader may view the information provided from an exchange via one or more specialized trading screens created by software running on the client terminal . Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to take actions such as send orders to an exchange cancel orders at the exchange or change order parameters for example. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client terminal . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals from the trader the client terminal may generate messages that reflect the actions taken generally shown at . It should be understood that different types of messages or order types can be submitted to the host exchange all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated user action messages may be sent from the client terminal to the host exchange over communication links and .

To profit in electronic markets market participants must be able to assimilate large amounts of data in order to recognize market trends and to view current market conditions. Among many different market data types a trading screen on the client terminal may display volume that has been traded for a tradeable object at different price levels during a trading day often referred to as volume at price. In the embodiment illustrated in the client terminal or the gateway may receive market updates from the host exchange and may use the information provided in the updates to calculate the traded volume for each price level. Alternatively the traded volume may be calculated at the host exchange and may be sent to the client terminal in market data updates. Once the traded volume is calculated and received at the client terminal the traded volume data may be displayed via a trading screen on the client terminal . To illustrate this further show a type of graphical user interface that may be used to display traded volume related data.

The present invention includes methods systems and graphical interfaces that provide tools to be used by a trader for electronic trading. By using preferred embodiments a trader is provided tools that can assist the trader in effectively monitoring market activity.

In one preferred embodiment a graphical display uses a fixed size scale as a reference to display market related or any trader related values such traded volume market depth trader s profit loss data or any other data that can be calculated based on market updates being received from an electronic exchange or data received from other sources. More specifically according to one example embodiment a display may include a fixed size bar chart including a plurality of fixed size bars displayed in relation to a plurality of price levels and the length of each fixed size bar corresponds to a preset maximum value. In one example embodiment each bar may be progressively color coded to represent for example traded volume at the respective price level. Preferably when the traded volume exceeds the preset maximum value corresponding to the length of the bar the overflow volume may be represented using a second graphical format. For example a portion of the bar may be highlighted using a different color than the one used to represent the maximum traded quantity. It should be understood and as will be described in greater detail hereinafter the first and second graphical formats can be illustrated using many different indicator types such as two or more indicators moving across the bar where an indicator type and a position of the indicator in relation to the bar may be used by a trader to determine when the traded volume crosses multiples of the maximum value associated with the length of the fixed size bar.

Also it should be understood that the embodiments described hereinafter may be used in combination with automatic or manual rescaling methods. For example the fixed size bar volume representation may be used until the volume reaches a preset value such as N times the volume associated with the length of the fixed size bar at which point a trader may be given the ability to resize the bars such that a new length of the bar will correspond to a higher value for example. It should be understood that a trader could also resize the fixed size bars so that the length of the bar will correspond to a lower value.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Other systems methods and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present embodiments may be operated in an entirely software embodiment in an entirely hardware embodiment or in a combination thereof. However for sake of illustration the preferred embodiments are described in a software based embodiment which is executed on a computer device. As such the preferred embodiments take the form of a computer program product that is stored on a computer readable storage medium and is executed by a suitable instruction system in the computer device. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices for example.

Preferably the trading application has access to market information through the interfaces such as through an application programming interface API and the application can also forward transaction information to the host exchange via the API. In a preferred embodiment when the trading application receives market information from the exchange it may arrange and display the received market information in many different ways depending on how the trader prefers to view the information on the visual output display devices . The display devices could be a CRT based video display an LCD based display a gas plasma panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or a different display type. In the preferred embodiment the trading application creates specialized interactive screens that enable traders to among other things enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screen may vary according to the specific software application being run. In addition to or in place of the interactive screens the client terminal could run automated types of trading applications. The trading application may also receive input signals from traders via input devices . The input devices can include for example a mouse a keyboard or any other input means selected by a user.

The preferred embodiment may be implemented on any type of trading screen therefore details regarding the trading screen are not necessary to understand the present invention. However in one embodiment one type of trading screen that can be used is provided by a commercially available trading application referred to as X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER also provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static price axis or scale. Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth filed on Jun. 9 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation filed on Oct. 5 2001 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 entitled Trading Tools For Electronic Trading filed on Apr. 19 2002 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 entitled A System and Method for Trading and Displaying Market Information in an Electronic Trading Environment filed on Feb. 28 2003 the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference. However it should be understood that orders in the system illustrated in could also be placed using any other trading application as well. Additionally the preferred embodiments are not limited to any particular product that performs translation storage and display functions.

The volume display controller is preferably a software application that interfaces with the trading application to display and update traded volume or other user selected values at different price levels. The embodiments described hereinafter will be generally described in reference to the traded volume at price. However it should be understood that different data types could be displayed using bar chart like displays that will be described in relation to subsequent figures. For example the embodiments described hereinafter can be used to display statistical data theoretical data any calculated data such as trader s profit loss data or any other market related data such as market depth at different price levels. In a preferred embodiment the volume display controller uses a fixed scale chart such as a bar chart including a plurality of fixed size bars displayed in relation to a plurality of price levels the embodiments of which will be described in greater detail below. It should be understood that the volume display controller may be configured to work with any type of trading display to provide the functionality described hereinafter.

The following are features of the preferred embodiments that provide specific functionalities to electronic trading. The functionalities include the ability to display quantity related information such as traded volume depth or any other statistical theoretical or calculated values using a fixed size scale as a reference. More specifically the preferred embodiments provide a display that uses a fixed size bar chart that displays the selected value type. In one preferred embodiment each bar may be for example progressively color coded to display an increasing traded quantity. In such an embodiment for example if traded volume being displayed in relation to a specific price level reaches a value that is higher than a maximum quantity value corresponding to a fixed size bar such bar may be progressively highlighted to display the quantity overflow. It should be understood that different graphical formats could be used to represent the overflow example embodiments of which will be described in relation to subsequent figures.

Referring to at step the volume display controller may provide a fixed size scale to be used as a reference to represent a traded volume at a number of price levels. In the preferred embodiment a maximum value on the fixed size scale may be used as a reference to define a length of each fixed size bar such that the length of each bar corresponds to a predetermined maximum traded quantity. It should be understood that the maximum traded quantity corresponding to each bar may be user configurable. The steps of the method will be described in reference to the traded volume however it should be understood that different data types could also be represented using the embodiments described herein. Some of the data types that can be displayed using the fixed size bars may include depth data statistical data theoretical data or any other data types calculated based on updates being provided from an exchange or from any other source. Also while the method for displaying traded volume is described in relation to fixed size bars the method can be used in relation to different graphical representations including but not limited to spirals forms where a 360 degree movement around a portion of the spiral corresponds to a preset maximum value for example and the multiples of the 360 degrees may correspond to the multiples of the maximum value. Alternatively circular band representations could be used where each circular band corresponds to a maximum quantity value for example.

At step the trading application receives a market update from an exchange. In one embodiment the market update may be in a data structure format and an exchange can send the data structures through a number of intermediate devices such as gateways for example. Generally a data structure may include various market information such as last traded quantity LTQ total traded quantity TTQ last traded price LTP pending bid ask quantities at different price levels and other market related or trader related information. It should be understood that exchanges can provide different data structures and depending on the exchange the data structures may include different information.

At step the trading application determines a traded quantity value for at least one price level. Exchanges generally provide market updates using a variety of methods that may affect a method of calculating traded quantities. According to one method for example an exchange such as Eurex may provide periodic updates of market information to the connected client terminals. In such an embodiment the exchange can provide updates at predetermined time intervals and each update can reflect aggregate changes in the market that occurred during the predetermined time interval until the price change. According to another method an exchange such as Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME may provide an update each time the market changes. For example if three subsequent fills of 5 5 and 12 are detected for the same price level Eurex may provide three updates of 5 10 and 22 at predetermined time intervals while CME may provide three subsequent updates of 5 5 and 12 once the respective fills are detected.

According to one example embodiment if an exchange provides updates each time the market changes the trading application would receive an update including an LTQ and an LTP for each market change. In such embodiment the trading application could determine the traded volume for each price level by simply matching the received LTQ with specific price level and then summing the traded quantities accordingly. If an exchange provides periodic updates corresponding to an aggregate traded quantity for the last traded price level the trading application may use the values in the received updates in addition to the TTQ to estimate traded quantities for each price level. For example if the first update includes an LTQ of 10 at the price level of 100 and the TTQ of 110 10 100 110 and if the next update includes 22 100 122 the trading application may simply add the quantities of 10 and then 12 to the traded volume value at the price level of 100. However if the two updates include 22 100 122 and 24 100 153 the first look at the LTQ and LTP would suggest that the quantity of 2 has been traded at the price of 100 during the time between the two updates. However using the TTQs from the two updates the trading application can determine that the quantity of 31 has been traded between the two updates. Therefore based on the TTQ difference the trading application may determine that the market has moved away from the price level of 100 during the time between the two updates and that the quantity of 7 has traded at some price level other than 100 before the quantity of 24 has been traded back at the LTP of 100. In such an embodiment the trading application may add the quantity of 7 to the traded quantities at the price levels of 101 or 99 depending on the system configuration. However it should be understood that the trading application could be configured to use different methods to distribute the quantity of 7 between one or more price levels. It should be understood that the embodiments described herein are not limited to any specific data formats in which data are to be received from an exchange or to any algorithms to be used to calculate desired values using the received data.

In addition to determining traded volume for each price level the trading application may also attempt to distinguish whether the traded quantity was associated with a buy or a sell so that a trader can monitor the strength of the buying and or selling activities. In one embodiment the trading application may determine whether a transaction corresponds to a buy or a sell using the LTP and the inside market information provided in a market update received from an exchange. For example if the LTP specified in the received update is equal to or lower than the current bid then the trading application may consider the LTQ as a sell since one or more offers have matched the price level of the existing bid. Thus if an offer has initiated the transaction the traded quantity may be considered a sell. Similarly if the LTP is equal to or higher than the current ask then the traded application may consider the corresponding LTQ to be a buy since a bid has matched a pending offer. Thus if a quantity has been traded at a price level equal to or higher than the best ask the quantity may be added to the total buy volume at the respective price. Then if a quantity has been traded at a price level equal to or lower than the best bid the quantity may be added to the total sell volume at the price.

Referring back to when the trading application determines the traded quantity such as the total traded volume or the total buy sell volume at step the volume display controller may determine if the calculated traded volume is higher than the maximum value corresponding to the fixed scale. If the traded volume is not higher than the maximum value at the volume display controller may use the first graphical format to represent the calculated volume in relation to a fixed size bar associated with a price level at which the calculated volume has been traded and the method may continue at . In one embodiment the fixed size bar may be color coded to represent the level of the calculated value. However different embodiments could also be used such as using different types of indicators that move along the bar or different highlighting formats.

Referring back to step if the calculated volume is higher than the maximum value corresponding to the fixed scale at step the volume display controller may first use the first graphical format to represent the maximum value in relation to a fixed size bar and then may use a second graphical format in relation to the same bar to represent a quantity overflow a difference between the calculated traded volume and the maximum value associated with the fixed size bar . In such an embodiment for example the entire bar may be color coded using a first graphical format and then a portion of the bar may be highlighted using another graphical format to represent the overflow. The same method using different graphical formats can be used to represent traded volume that crosses twice the maximum threshold. Therefore using the method described above each bar may represent any traded quantity including multiples of the maximum traded quantity without the need of rescaling the bars based on the maximum traded quantity as in prior art systems. However as mentioned earlier the embodiments for displaying traded quantities using fixed size bars may be combined with providing to a trader the ability to rescale the bars such as for example when the traded volume reaches a certain multiple of the maximum quantity volume corresponding to a bar.

The examples provided in relation to subsequent figures illustrate some features of the present embodiments. Description of these examples is provided for convenience only. Also it should be understood that it is not intended for the invention to be limited to application in the illustrated graphical interfaces. After reading the following description of the examples it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the invention in alternative trading screen environments.

The display also includes a bar like indicator displayed in relation to the axis . The indicator illustrates a view of the display that is scaled in relation to the maximum and minimum price levels and . It should be understood that the extent of prices illustrated with the indicator may depend on the type of host exchange providing market depth. For instance some host exchanges provide market depth for all or many price levels while some limit it to only a few price levels. In one preferred embodiment the price range associated with the indicator corresponds to the price range shown in relation to the bars depicted to the right of the indicator that corresponds to the current market depth prices for example. Thus using such an embodiment a trader can quickly view the current market position as compared to the highest and lowest prices during a trading day or as compared to other user selected prices during longer or shorter time intervals. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to displaying traded volume in relation to prices corresponding to the current market depth prices and traded volume values could be displayed in relation to more or fewer prices as well.

The display also includes a display region for displaying traded quantities using a plurality of fixed size bars . The fixed size bars may be statically positioned in relation to a value axis so that the bars don t change their positions until a repositioning command is detected for example. In the embodiment illustrated in each fixed size bar is associated with a single price level displayed within each bar and the length of each bar corresponds to a value of 1000 predefined with a bar scale indicator . It should be understood that a trader could preferably change the scale to be used in relation to each bar by simply changing the value corresponding to the scale indicator . Also while illustrates prices displayed within each bar it should be understood that different embodiments are possible as well. For example only some rather than all prices can be displayed in relation to the bars alternatively no price levels could be displayed at all. Also alternatively each bar may correspond to more than one price level such as two or more consolidated price levels for example. Further rather than associating each bar with a specific price level or consolidated price levels each bar may be associated with a specific time or with a specific time interval during a trading session. In such an embodiment each bar may display any numerical trader related data such as trader s profit loss P L at different points during a trading session.

In the embodiment illustrated in each bar is used to graphically display the traded volume at the price level corresponding to the bar. More specifically at least a portion of each bar may be color coded to represent the traded volume such as illustrated at in relation to the bar for example. Also as will be illustrated in relation to the subsequent figures when the traded volume exceeds a maximum value predefined for a bar the overflow volume could be represented using a different graphical format than the one used to represent the traded volume that was lower than the maximum value. For example the overflow volume could be illustrated by shading the color coded bar. However it should be understood that a trader could configure different graphical formats to be used to represent the traded volume values.

Additionally according to one example embodiment a trader could use the interface to submit orders to an exchange. For example the interface could display a number of quantity selectors corresponding to different quantity values that a trader could use to select a desired quantity level. In one embodiment a trader could then select a price level for an order by simply clicking in relation to a bar corresponding to a desired price level. In such an embodiment a right click of a mouse could correspond to a buy while a left click could correspond to a sell. Also orders may be submitted using order tickets that will allow a trader to define order parameters. However it should be understood that different embodiments are possible as well.

Display regions A B and C are used to display the same traded volume related data using three different scales of 2000 1000 and 750 respectively. As described in reference to the three scales are used as a reference to display traded quantities in relation to the bars corresponding to each display region. Referring to the length of each bar corresponds to the quantity value of 2000 and each bar is color coded to represent the quantity traded at the price level corresponding to each bar with the quantity value at the price level of 116.02 being the closest one to 2000.

Referring now to with a price scale now set to 1000 the quantities at the price levels of 116.02 116.01 116.00 and 115.99 now exceed the value of 1000 corresponding to the length of each bar set by the scale. Since the traded quantities at the four price levels exceed a maximum value to be represented with each bar the overflow volume can be represented using a different graphical format. For example referring to the bar corresponding to the price level of 116.02 the area corresponding to the bar may be color coded using a first graphical format and the overflow quantity may be represented by color coding the bar using a second graphical format such as illustrated at . It should be understood that color coding highlighting or moving any other user configured indicators in relation to each bar is not limited to any specific direction and the direction of any movement could be user configurable.

Similarly referring to where the scale to be used in relation to the bars is set to 750 the order quantities at the price levels of 116.02 and 116.01 exceed a value corresponding to twice the length of the bars i.e. 1500. As illustrated in reference to the bar at the price level of 116.02 for example the traded quantity is represented using three graphical formats a first graphical format corresponding to the quantity range between 0 750 a second graphical format corresponding to the quantity range between 751 1500 and a third graphical format corresponding to the remaining quantity traded at that price.

While the example embodiments for representing traded quantities have been described in reference to FIGS. and A C using bar chart format representation different graphical representations could also be used to represent traded quantities or other user selected values. For example traded quantities or other trader selected values could be represented using different shapes such as circles or any other user selected forms. Also it should be understood that methods and graphical representations used for displaying overflow quantities could be user configurable. For example rather than color coding each bar a line moving across each bar could be used while a format color of the line may change or different lines could be used to represent a quantity that crosses every multiple of the maximum value associated with the bar. Alternatively it should be understood that different user configurable indicators could be used in relation to the fixed size bars as long as a trader can visually identify when a traded quantity is higher than a predetermined multiple of a maximum traded quantity corresponding to the length of each bar.

The display also arranges the market information in an easy to read fashion by orienting the bid and ask quantities as shown at and along a common price axis . The representative prices for the given tradeable object are shown in a price column where the prices are arranged in a numerical order in increments. It should be understood that prices may be of the static type such as when prices normally do not move until a repositioning command is received or of the dynamic type such as when prices normally move. A display like the one shown in also allows a trader to enter orders by selecting a price cell that is situated along the common price axis . More information related to placing orders using the display illustrated in can be found in the application referenced above in relation to .

The display also includes a plurality of fixed size bars displayed in relation and corresponding to a plurality of price levels. More specifically the bars in are displayed in relation to the ask column however it should be understood that the bars could be displayed in relation to any axis. In the illustrated embodiment the fixed size bars are controlled using a scale of 1000 however as described in relation to previous figures different scales could also be used.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for displaying traded volume using fixed size bars in an electronic trading environment may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

