---

title: Increasing user engagement with health
abstract: A health-program system and method provides health programs for users to select, receives data related to users' progress in a selected health program and determines users' status in the program which is provided for display to the users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784209&OS=08784209&RS=08784209
owner: Imetrikus, Inc.
number: 08784209
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120907
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 532 080 filed Sep. 7 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to on line applications to increase user engagement with health through participation in activities related to health.

Healthcare costs are a major concern for individuals employers and governments at the local state and federal level. A majority of healthcare expenses could be avoided as they are associated with disease and morbidity that could be avoided. Peer pressure which is often associated with pressure to participate in negative activities can be a force for good in increasing health. Many people are motivated to make positive health related changes following the example of friends family and coworkers. Similarly when an individual s motivation to stick with a plan such as a work out plan ebbs often encouragement from others reenergizes the individual. Just knowing that others are counting on you to encourage them can be the difference between sleeping in and getting up to work out on a given morning.

The described system stores health related programs to assist users in meeting their health needs. Users browse the programs to select one to join. Users can browse programs or search for on certain criteria. Health related programs include plans and challenges which can take the form of a health related goal or a routine. A plan is designed for use by a user individually and does not require others to participate. A challenge provides a team environment in which multiple individuals participate jointly. Both plans and challenges can be created by individuals or by corporate entities. Status in plans and challenges is determined using data provided either by the user or by health monitoring devices or a combination of the two and displayed to users in dashboards.

The figures depict a preferred embodiment of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The described system stores health related programs to assist users in meeting their health needs. Health related programs include plans and challenges which can take the form of a health related goal or a routine. A plan comprises health related activities and may include activities related to diet exercise fitness mental health sports and the like. Plans are joined by individuals and proceed with or without other users. A challenge provides a team environment in which multiple individuals participate jointly. Both plans and challenges can be created by individuals or by corporate entities. Status in plans and challenges is determined using data provided either by the user or by health monitoring devices or a combination of the two and displayed to users in dashboards. Users choose whether or not to share their participation and data from plans and challenges with friends via one or more online social networking platforms. If the user has opted into sharing the system posts updates about the user s participation to the social networking platform.

In a challenge multiple users participate in a goal or routine and one or more prizes are awarded. Challenges may be competitive or cooperative. In a competitive challenge prizes are awarded only to the first N individuals who complete the routine or achieve the goal where the value of N is established by the creator of the challenge. In a cooperative challenge all participants who achieve the goal or complete the routine are awarded a prize.

The system is implemented using a computer system comprising a single computer or a network of computers including cloud based computer implementations. As used herein a computer is understood to mean a hardware device including at least one processor a memory configured for storing computer executable programs and data a storage device for persistent storage of programs and data a bus for communicatively coupling the processor s memory storage and associated physical and programmatic interfaces for input devices output devices and network connectivity. Generally the computers are preferably server class computers including one or more high performance CPUs and 1G or more of main memory as well as 500 Gb to 2 Tb of computer readable persistent storage and running an operating system such as LINUX or variants thereof. The operations of the system as described herein can be controlled through either hardware or through computer programs installed in the storage and executed by the processors of such servers to perform the functions described herein. The system includes other hardware elements necessary for the operations described here including network interfaces and protocols input devices for data entry and output devices for display printing or other presentations of data. As is apparent the various data processing operations described herein are sufficiently complex and time consuming as to require the operation of a computer system such as the system in order to practice embodiments of the invention. The system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Conventional aspects such as network interfaces e.g. routers gateways firewalls load balances security devices backup devices and the like are not shown.

The system includes a plan creation module a recommendation module a status module a publishing module a challenge module an assessment module and a database as described herein. For simplicity only one of each component of the system is shown but in practice multiples of each may be in operation.

The plan creation module is configured to create plans with information provided by the plan creator and is one means for performing this function. The operation of the plan creation module is described in greater detail below.

The recommendation module is configured to provide recommended plans to users of the system based on one or more criterion and is one means for performing this function. The recommendation may be made in response to a search query or provided automatically when a user logs into the system . The recommendation module may use output from the assessment module in making recommendations. The operation of the recommendation module is described in greater detail below.

The status module is configured to use data provided by the user and or by the health monitoring device to determine a user s progress in plans and challenges that the user has joined and is one means for performing this function. That progress is provided for display to the user at the client . A user s status is also stored as associated with that user in the database . The operation of the status module is described in greater detail below.

The publishing module is configured to provide information to the social networking platform about a user s progress and participation in plans if the user has opted to share that information and is one means for performing this function. Providing information can be in the form of posts to the user s profile posts to a news feed or creating a status update. Additionally the publishing module processes invitations initiated by the user to friends to participate in a plan goal or challenge. The operation of the publishing module is described in greater detail below.

The challenge module is configured to create challenges with information provided by the challenge creator and is one means for performing this function. The challenge module also operates challenges and provides the information for providing status of the challenge participants to the participants. Its operation is described in greater detail below.

The assessment module is configured to provide assessments in which users can participate and is one means for performing this function. Assessments are a series of questions that users answer and for which a score is generated after completion of the assessment using a scoring algorithm. The subject of the assessment can be anything of interest to users. Assessments will typically be health related. Examples include but are not limited to assessments for type II diabetes risk asthma management biological age overall happiness and the like. The output of the assessment module is stored in the database . Operation of the assessment module is described in greater detail below.

The database is configured to store data related to the system. The data may be stored using any type of data storage system. Data includes the parameters of plans and challenges user account information data about a user s progress in a plan and indices of this data. The database and its architecture are described in greater detail below in reference to Appendix A.

The network is typically the Internet but may also be any network including but not limited to a LAN a MAN a WAN a mobile wired or wireless network telecommunication network a private network or a virtual private network and any combination thereof.

The client is any type of device that is adapted to access the system and optionally the online health data service over the network and that allows a user to input information which the client in turn transmits to the system . Examples include but are not limited to personal computing devices including handheld and mobile devices such as tablet computers laptops smart phones and the like. For simplicity only three clients are shown in practice there will be numerous clients communicating with system .

The health monitoring device is any kind of device that collects health related data and is configured to provide the data to the system over the network and optionally to the online health data service . Health monitoring devices include but are not limited to blood glucose monitors blood pressure monitors peak flow meters treadmills elliptical machines rowing machines pedometers running computers cycling computers weight scales and the like. Smart phones can be configured to operate as health monitoring devices as well as clients . A smartphone can be configured as a health monitoring device by configuring it to read a bar code or QR code on a fitness machine or to receive data wirelessly e.g. via NFC or Bluetooth from other health monitoring devices . For simplicity only one health monitoring device is shown in practice there will be numerous health monitoring devices communicating with system .

The social networking platform is any kind of on line application through which users interact. Examples include FACEBOOK MYSPACE GOOGLE BEBO and the like. The system typically accesses the social networking platform through use of an application programming interface API . In one embodiment users interact with the system via the social networking platform . The system can be configured to communicate with multiple different social networking platforms concurrently.

The online health data service is any kind of on line application where users can store health data. Examples include NUMERA NET webmd.com HEALTHVAULT from Microsoft as well as websites and other online services created by insurance companies and health providers.

The various processes of the system and operation of its particular modules are now described in reference to .

Plans include two main types goals and routines. A goal is a measured result to which a user aspires. Examples of goals include lose 10 pounds run a marathon lower cholesterol by 50 points and swim the English Channel. Routines are a series of activities that a user commits to doing. Examples include swim one mile three times a week eat three kinds of vegetables a day read one motivational book a month walk around the block at lunchtime every day etc. Routines can include multiple activities and be related to particular goals. For example a routine might be 1 swim one mile three times a week and 2 lift weights twice a week. A goal might be to swim from Alcatraz Island in the San Francisco Bay and then a related routine would be a training plan to get the user trained to accomplish the swim from Alcatraz.

Plans can be created by individual users or corporate entities. In creating a plan the plan creator determines the health measures that are collected to determine the progress of a user who has joined the plan and other plan attributes. Other attributes of a plan can include how long the plan will be available a description of the plan a category for the plan keywords to describe the plan with an optional weighting for each keyword a difficulty rating for the plan a popularity rating and sponsorship information. Creators also determine to whom the plan will be visible using a set of business rules. An individual user may create a plan and only make it visible to the user s friends on the social networking platform . A corporate entity creating a plan may make it visible to everyone for example if the plan involves the use of the entity s products. Alternatively a corporate entity may make a plan only visible to its members or its fans on the social networking platform . In this way the corporate entity has created special content that is available as a bonus to members or loyal customers.

After a user logs into the system the user can select plans to join. Referring to the user requests 201 plans. In response the recommendation module provides plans retrieved 205 from the database based on one or more criterion. Provided plans can be plans to browse plans based on as metadata associated plans such as health condition activity plan creator to view plans created by friends or a particular company or brand etc. In some embodiments the system recommends plans to users automatically. When a user sets up an account with the system the user provides a number of items of health data that the recommendation module uses to recommend plans to the user. Examples of data provided to the system include age weight whether or not the user smokes gender how many hours the user exercises per week and particular health issues which are of concern to the user such as type II diabetes emphysema obesity high cholesterol etc. .

In one embodiment when recommending plans to a user based on data in the user s account profile the recommendation module uses the following equation relevance of plan kr krw r rw rc rcw fc fcw uc ucw pe pew

The user selects a plan in which to participate and the selected plan is stored as associated with the user in the database .

Marketplaces provide a mechanism for grouping and presenting by the recommendation module a set of health content plans or challenges to end users. Marketplaces group content using any criteria that may be useful based on administrative or marketing need. Example criteria for grouping include but are not limited to a corporate sponsor a health issue and plan creator.

Corporate entities can license the system licensees to create a branded marketplace for that corporate sponsor. The licensee selects the specific plans that appear within its marketplace from a library of available plans. Licensees can also create new plans. Like any creator of a plan a licensee can leverage a set of associated business rules that affect visibility of the created plan. For example licensee may create a plan that is only visible to its members. A licensee also uses business rules to determine placement of its plans within its marketplace.

Marketplaces are managed from a marketplace administrator user interface which includes tools that allow for selection from a list of all available content. Using this tool the administrator for the marketplace selects a specific plan or challenge to preview more detailed information such as plan description schedule activities and ratings. This helps the administrator decide whether to include the plan in the marketplace. Once a plan has been selected the tool will prompt the administrator to supply additional information that is needed for the associated business rules for the appearance of that plan in that licensee s marketplace. This information includes start end dates for content availability payment billing related information for premium plans and also an optional ranking value numeric that affects how available plans are sorted within the marketplace display. In one embodiment the ranking value of plans in a marketplace is determined by factors such as nature of the marketplace e.g. general or licensee specific popularity of the plan level of difficulty of the plan cost of the plan efficacy of the plan e.g. measured by successful completions of the plan recency of the plan and the like.

Once a user has joined a plan the system periodically monitors the user s status and provides the status to the user. Status for a goal is the user s progress towards the goal and status for a routine is compliance with the routine.

The status module determines a user s progress towards a goal f m using data provided to the system and stored in the database . From a progress perspective goals can be complex or simple. A simple goal is one for which progress is tracked using one metric e.g. weight waist measurement etc. . for simple goal 100

Complex goals require multiple metrics to calculate the desired value. For example blood pressure has two components systolic and diastolic. Progress towards a complex goal can be displayed to the user as a history of the measurements over time rather than determining a percentage of progress made towards the goal. Alternatively more complex progress measuring algorithms can be used that are specific for complex goals based on a combination of both simple progress as set forth above and health related factors e.g. measurements relative to known measurements indicative of good health such as weights BMI HDL etc. . These are then used to calculate percentage of progress towards the goal.

Compliance with a routine f t is determined by the status module also using data provided by the user to the system or provided by a health monitoring device . The status module uses an activity weighting system that the creator of a routine uses to indicate the level of importance for each activity in the routine. The activity weighting is a 0 5 value of increasing importance where a 0 weighted activity is not factored into routine compliance and a 5 weighted activity is assigned the highest relative importance . On this scale a 3 weighted activity is considered three times more important than a 1 weighted activity. In one embodiment partial completion of measurable activities is included into the compliance. For example if an activity specifies that 5 miles should be run but the user runs only 4 miles then a pre weighted activity compliance of 80 will be used in the calculation. Alternatively having completed more than half of the activity counts as completed and less than half does not count as completed.

The determined status is provided 229 to the client . There it may be displayed to the user at a dashboard displayed at the client . A user has a main dashboard showing high level status for each plan and challenge in which the user is participating. Then a more detailed dashboard can be accessed for each plan or challenge that gives additional detail for that plan or challenge. How status for challenges is determined is discussed in greater detail below.

Data received at the system that is verified is more valuable in providing a true picture of a participant s progress in plan or goal. Data that is verified is identified as such in the database . When it comes to health people often slant information they give to be more positive such as exaggerating how many days they actually work out minimizing how many times a week they eat fast food etc. Additionally there is the possibility for innocent errors. Verified data is not subject to these problems. Examples of verified data include data reported by a health monitoring device or verified by a witness a friend confirming that a participant spent 30 minutes walking at lunch . It is anticipated that more and more devices will be able to communicate with the system using standard formats such as HL7 administered by Health Level Seven a standard setting body for healthcare informatics . Blood glucose monitoring devices at a participant s home can report data back to the system . Exercise machines can either report directly to the system how long a participant worked out on the machine or a participant can scan a QR code on the machine with a smart phone as they start working out and when they finish. The smart phone then reports the amount of time spent and the type of machine to the system . In yet another alternative the machine generates a QR code specific to the participant s workout session such as calories burned distance gone on machine etc. at the end of the session which QR is then scanned by the user s smart phone and transmitted back to the system . This embodiment provides more data to the system but does not require the exercise machine to have a connection to a network. In yet another option the location functionality on a smart phone for example by GPS or network localization or cell phone tower triangulation can be used to provide verified data. That the participant was present at the gym for example can be used as verification that the user worked out.

The ability to use verified data provides advantages to users and creators of plans and challenges because verified data is more reliable. Creators of challenges can provide additional incentives beyond the prizes for winning or completing a challenge for participants to provide verified data. Additionally or alternatively verified data is given more weight in an algorithm used to determine the winner of a competitive challenge. Scoring of challenges is discussed in greater detail below. In one embodiment verified data is identified as such at the user s dashboard. If the user has made progress and data visible to friends at the social networking platform providing verified data and having it identified provides the added incentive of bragging rights.

Challenges administered by the challenge module are routines and goals that have a set start and end time and provide a social element by allowing participating users to interact with one other while working on a routine or goal. This provides additional motivation to complete the routine or goal. The attributes of routines and goals that are challenges are the same as attributes for routines and goals that are plans. The routine or goal in a challenge can also be available as a plan but need not be. Like plans challenges can be created either by individual users or corporate entities who determine the attributes for the challenge.

A challenge involves the awarding of one or more prizes. Prizes can be anything that users might value. Examples of prizes offered by corporate entities might include discount codes for the entity s merchandise or services or free merchandise or services. Where an individual sets up a challenge the individual can offer more personal prizes such as a donation to the winner s charity of choice a home cooked dinner or a hosted event. Anti prizes may also be awarded to the losers. An example anti prize is to be labeled a rotten egg and a humorous icon is next to that participant s name as their profile picture or as a badge on their profile picture for some period of time after the close of the challenge.

Challenges can be competitive or cooperative. The creator of a challenge determines whether the challenge will be competitive or cooperative. In a competitive challenge only the first participant or first N participants to achieve the goal or complete the routine wins a prize. An anti prize can be awarded to the participant who finishes last or does not finish at all. In a cooperative challenge every participant who completes the routine or achieves the goal wins a prize. An anti prize could still be awarded if participants in the cooperative challenge do not finish at all.

Users can join a challenge any time before it starts and any time before it ends i.e. a user can join a challenge that is in progress. Users who have joined a challenge are called participants in the challenge. Participants can leave the challenge any time before the challenge ends. When a participant leaves a challenge that user is no longer a participant however the user can join the challenge again as a participant as long as it has not already ended.

In one embodiment the data about a participant s progress in the challenge is available to other participants in the challenge. provides an example dashboard showing the progress of participants in a challenge. The example challenge is sponsored by a corporate entity healthco. The prize is a free lunch at a local restaurant. The dashboard displayed to the participant of the challenge includes a button to invite other friends to participate in the challenge. Those invitations are processed through the social networking platform .

This challenge is competitive and thus the dashboard includes a leaderboard. For each participant in a particular challenge the challenge module generates a number f p that represents the participant s progress in the challenge using the algorithm assigned to that challenge. f p is nonnegative the higher the number the better that participant is doing in the challenge. Participants are ranked in descending f p order. If two participants have the same value for f p then the participants have the same rank. In one embodiment the ranking is not dense e.g. if there are three participants and two are tied for first then the last participant is in third place none of the participants are in second place in this case.

The determination of f p depends on whether the challenge is based on a goal or a routine. As discussed in reference to plans progress is determined differently for goals and routines. For a routine based challenge f p is a function of compliance with the routine.

In an alternative embodiment participants are ranked based on their compliance with the routine f t as determined by the status module and described previously.

For a goal based challenge to reach a certain absolute measurement e.g. walk 5 000 000 steps f p is just the number of steps each participant has taken to date.

In an alternative embodiment the challenge module ranks participants based on their progress towards the goal f m as determined by the status module and was described earlier.

In addition to joining plans and challenges the users of system can take assessments administered by the assessment module . illustrates a dialog box showing assessments available for a user to take. Assessments can be provided by a third party e.g. REALAGE in this example . Additionally assessments specific provided by system are presented as well. Assessment is a health survey that asks additional questions beyond those asked in the initial user account set up. If a user has completed assessment the recommendation module uses results of that assessment in recommending plans and challenges to that user. The recommendation module optionally uses the fact that a user has taken any assessment regardless of the assessment s creator and its results in making a recommendation for plans and challenges.

Privacy is of great concern to users of health related applications. Users of the system determine privacy settings for each of the different aspects of their participation in the system and then for each of those aspects that the user has decided may be visible to others to whom will they be visible. illustrates a privacy control dialog box where the user indicates for each aspect profile page joined plans progress for joined plans goals and measurements and completed activities of their participation with the system who if anyone can view that aspect. Thus a user can determine whether dashboards of the user s status in various plans can be viewed by friends at the social networking platform by everyone at the social networking platform or by no one. Even if the dashboard is made visible to some people the user can choose that the individual measurements blood pressure steps walked in a day etc. will not be visible to others.

In the example in the level of control has three options either no one everyone or friends only. In other embodiments additional granularity is implemented such that a user specifies individuals who may view something or can exclude individuals from seeing something. For example joined plans can be viewed by Friends Only except friends John Doe Mary Jones and Betty Smith. In one embodiment visibility can further be limited to those at the social networking platform who are also users of system . For example a user could choose to allow all friends at social networking platform or just friends at social networking platform who use system to see a particular aspect. Similarly visibility could be everyone at social networking platform or everyone at social networking platform who is also a user of system . In one embodiment the privacy options displayed by system are those of the social networking platform . illustrates an alternate interface for making privacy choice for example for use on a smart phone.

A user s privacy choices are stored at the database . In one embodiment enforcement of the privacy policy is by the social networking platform .

In one embodiment as part of joining a challenge the user opts to allow the other participants in the challenge to see the user s progress. If a user does not wish to allow that level of access the user cannot join the challenge. As the purpose of the challenge is to compete keeping one s progress a secret is not compatible with the spirit of the challenge. The user could of course still participate in the underlying routine or goal that is part of the challenge if that routine or goal is available as a plan. The user would not however be part of the challenge.

Users have the option to have their data from participation in plans provided to an online health data service with whom the user has an account. Additionally data from health monitoring devices may already be provided to an online health data service and the user can configure their account with the system to retrieve those measurements from the online health data service . This avoids having to configure the health monitoring device to provide the data both to the online health data service and the system . A user may choose to share other data stored at the online health data service with the system . This additional data would allow the recommendation module to provide more personalized recommendations for plans to the user.

In this description the term module refers to computational logic and data for providing the specified functionality. A module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. Where the modules described herein are implemented as software the modules can be implemented as a standalone program but can also be implemented through other means for example as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs or as one or more statically or dynamically linked libraries. In any of these software implementations the modules for example plan creation module recommendation module status module publication module challenge module and assessment module are stored on the computer readable persistent storage devices of the system loaded into memory and executed by the one or more processors of the system s computers.

The particular division of functionality between the various components may differ from that described herein given the variety of software development environments and hardware platforms that may be used to practice the invention. Thus the particular functions of the various above describe components may be provided in more or fewer elements. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

It is not necessary for the elements to be organized as shown the elements can be hosted by other entities or in some cases may even stand alone. In some implementations of the system the various elements may also appear in different configurations. Furthermore it is not necessary for every embodiment of the invention to include all of the elements depicted. Likewise as other elements and sub elements are described throughout the invention it should be understood that various embodiments of the invention may exclude elements and sub elements described that the elements and sub elements may be hosted in configurations other than those shown and that elements and sub elements even within an element may be hosted in different locations or by different entities than those shown.

The particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols.

Some portions of the above description describe the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like.

The terms used to describe various quantities data values and computations are understood to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Finally it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention.

