---

title: Methods and apparatus to identify media
abstract: Methods and apparatus for identifying media are described. An example method includes determining application identification information for a media presentation application executing on a media device, determining a first watermark for the application identification information from a lookup table, requesting media identification information for media from the media presentation application, determining a second watermark for the media identification information from the lookup table, inserting the first watermark in the media prior to output of the media by the media device, and inserting the second watermark in the media prior to the output of the media by the media device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874924&OS=08874924&RS=08874924
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 08874924
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
This disclosure relates generally to media and more particularly to methods and apparatus to identify media.

Media producers media providers advertisers product manufactures represented in advertisements and many other entities utilize information about the presentation of media. Such information is often collected through the use of panels comprised of persons e.g. panelists who have agreed to have their exposure to media monitored. For example audio of media may be transmitted with identifying information e.g. embedded watermarks or codes that identifies the media. Panelists may be supplied with meters e.g. portable meters carried and or worn by the panelists that collect the audio and extract the identifying information. The information may be transmitted to a collection facility where the results from multiple panelists are combined to generate reports comprising information about media presentation.

Embedding identification information in media e.g. content advertisements audio video movies commercials television programs radio programs video games etc. is often performed at or on behalf of a media provider. Such embedding relies on cooperation with media providers. Obtaining such cooperation may be complicated due to the large number of media providers across different media platforms e.g. terrestrial television cable television satellite television Internet television Sony PlayStation video games Nintendo video games Microsoft video games movie producers video on demand CD s DVD s etc. . Furthermore media providers may be unwilling or unable to cooperate.

Methods and apparatus described herein embed identification information in media utilizing a media presentation device that renders the media for presentation e.g. a media presentation device at a panelist home . In some examples such methods and apparatus rely on little or no cooperation from media providers. The use of computational resources of the media providers is thus reduced. Furthermore by embedding identification at the media presentation device further information about the audience the device and or applications executing on the device can be included in the embedded identification information.

In some disclosed examples a media presentation device determines identification information for an application executing on the media presentation device. For example the application may be an application controlling media presentation e.g. an operation system component presenting a video game a cloud video distribution application e.g. Netflix Hulu MLBtv etc. a digital versatile disk DVD decoding application a Flash program etc. . The media presentation device determines an identifier for the application by consulting a lookup table. The media presentation device inserts the identifier as a watermark in the media so that the media is presented with the embedded watermark identifier. In some examples the media presentation device additionally or alternatively determines identification information for media presented by the application e.g. a manufacturer identification number embedded in a video game DVD an identifier of a video distributed by a cloud video distribution application metadata associated with media an originating internet protocol address of streaming media etc. . The media presentation device determines an identifier for the media by consulting a lookup table e.g. a second lookup table or algorithm to produce an appropriate watermark identifier. The media presentation device inserts the identifier for the media as a watermark in the media. In some examples a first level watermark e.g. corresponding to the application identifier and a second level watermark e.g. corresponding to the media identifier are inserted in the media in an interleaved manner. Where two levels of watermarks are used the first level can be used to identify the media content and the second level can identify the media presentation device or application. In some examples after the watermarked media output by the media presentation device the watermarks are detected by a meter and are sent to a data collection facility for analysis and or reporting.

In examples disclosed herein any type of watermarking e.g. video watermarking audio watermark etc. or any other technique for embedding identifying information in media may be utilized. For example watermarks may be embedded as Nielsen Watermarks codes a.k.a. Nielsen codes of The Nielsen Company US LLC as Arbitron audio encoding watermarks etc. Example methods systems and apparatus to encode and or decode audio watermarks are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 551 220 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Perform Audio Watermarking and Watermark Detection and Extraction filed Aug. 31 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 464 811 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Perform Audio Watermarking and Watermark Detection and Extraction filed May 12 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 249 619 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Perform Audio Watermarking Detection and Extraction filed Oct. 10 2008 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The media presentation device of the illustrated example receives and or outputs media for presentation. For example the media presentation device may be a set top box an integrated receiver decoder a video game console a disk media player e.g. a DVD player Blu ray player a compact disk CD player a television a computing device etc. The media presentation device may present the media via an integrated output device e.g. where the media presentation device is a television or via a second device e.g. via external speakers and or video display . Thus the media presentation device may output the media via its own functionality and or to another device that presents the media e.g. a television speakers etc. . The example media presentation device of includes a media application removable media a media rendering engine an identification generator a watermark generator and a lookup table .

The media application interfaces with and causes presentation of media by the media rendering engine . The media application may be integrated with an operating system of the media presentation device e.g. an application to present video games on gaming disks inserted in a Sony PlayStation or may be an application apart from the operating system e.g. an application associated with an entity different from the manufacturer of the media presentation device such as a Netflix application executing on a Sony PlayStation . The media may be stored on a removable tangible storage medium e.g. a DVD a CD a Blu ray a flash memory retrieved from the media provider via the network obtained from a broadcast or unicast system stored on a local tangible storage medium of the media presentation device e.g. a hard disk drive or stored on any other tangible storage medium.

The media application directs the media to the media rendering engine for rendering and presentation. The media application of the illustrated example also includes an interface e.g. an application programming interface API that enables the identification generator to obtain information about media handled by the media application . The identification generator and access to the identification information are described in further detail below. In some examples while the operating system of the media presentation device is aware of the identity of the media application the media presentation device may not be apprised of the identity of media presented by the media application . In such examples the media application may allow the identification generator to access identifying information for the media e.g. using the API or any other interface to the media application .

The media rendering engine of the illustrated example receives media via the media application and renders the media for presentation. For example the media rendering engine may include an audio subsystem to render audio for presentation a video subsystem to render video for presentation etc. For example if the example media presentation device is implemented as a video gaming system the media rendering engine may render the media as it is dynamically generated by the media application in order to display the gaming environment. For example if the example media presentation device is presenting a movie on a DVD the media rendering engine decodes and renders the movie for presentation on a display.

The media rendering engine of the illustrated example also includes an interface e.g. an API that allows the identification generator to access the media to be rendered. For example the identification generator of the illustrated example cooperates with the watermarking generator by sending the media watermark generator for watermarking prior to output of the media by the media presentation device . For example the watermark generator may access the media and embed watermarks in real time as the media is rendered. Such real time encoding may be advantageous in for example video gaming media presentation devices where the media e.g. the audio of the media is dynamic and based on the play of the game.

The example identification generator of the illustrated example determines application identification information for the media application via an operating system of the media presentation device . Alternatively the identification generator may determine the application identification information for the media application from any other source e.g. by querying the API of the media application . The application identification information for the media application may be a name of the media application an identification number of the media application a globally unique identifier GUID of the media application a manufacturer identifiers an identifier embedded in the application or any other unique or semi unique identifier for the media.

The example identification generator also determines media identification information for media to be presented by and or currently presented by the media application by querying the API of the media application . The media identification information may be any information useful for identifying the media such as a name of the media an identification number for the media e.g. an identification number embedded in the media an identification number embedded on a storage disk on which the media is stored etc. an identifier embedded in the media a manufacturer identifier or any other unique or semi unique identifier for the media.

The identification generator of the illustrated example accesses the lookup table using the application identification information for the media application and or the media identification information for the media to determine application and or media identification information to be embedded in the media. In particular the example identification generator determines application identification information to be embedded in a first watermark identifying the media application and media identification information to be embedded in a second watermark identifying the media. The identification generator passes application and or media identifying information to the watermark generator . The watermark generator generates the watermark s and inserts the watermark in media received from the media rendering engine . For example the watermark generator may generate watermark s as audio having tones at emphasized frequencies that are integrated with the audio of the media from the media rendering engine . The audio watermarking tones may be generated using psychoacoustic masking to reduce the perceptibility of the watermark s by humans exposed to the audio.

The watermark generator of the illustrated example embeds identifying information in media received from the media rendering engine . The watermark generator may generate the watermarks using any technique for embedding identifying information in media e.g. generating watermarks to be mixed into audio of the media generating image watermarks to be overlaid on the video of the media etc. . The watermark generator receives the media from the media rendering engine and inserts the watermark in the media. For example the watermark generator may generate the watermark information in real time or almost real time to insert the watermarks into the media without causing human noticeable delay in the media rendering.

In the illustrated example the watermark generator interleaves a first watermark identifying the media application with a second watermark identifying the media. For example is a table illustrating a sample sequence of watermarks inserted into media by the watermark generator . As illustrated in the example watermarks are inserted every two seconds and alternate between a Program Content PC watermark identifying media e.g. Example Game according to the lookup table of and a Final Distributor FD watermark identifying an executing media application e.g. an example Game Platform operating software for presenting a video game according to the lookup table of . In some examples the FD watermarks are inserted in a 1 1 relationship with the PC watermarks. Alternatively the watermarks may be inserted in different proportions e.g. the media watermark may be presented more frequently when the application watermark changes less frequently .

Example implementations of the identification generator and the watermark generator are described in further detail in conjunction with .

The lookup table of the illustrated examples associate application and or media identification information with example watermark s . The lookup table of the illustrated example includes two tables as illustrated in . The lookup table of associates media identifying information e.g. manufacturer identifiers for video games in the illustrated example and information to be inserted in the media via a watermark. In the illustrated example the information to be inserted in the media via watermark s is Source Identifier and Time In Content fields that are often included in other types of watermarks e.g. these fields are typically included in watermarks inserted by media providers at the instruction of media monitoring entities . For example by utilizing watermarking fields that are commonly used e.g. commonly used by media providers such as a television media providers to watermark media the watermarks can be extracted by a metering device typically used for extracting such commonly used watermarks e.g. a meter that is utilized to monitor media from television media providers . Accordingly meters may not need to be modified to extract and communicate the watermarks described herein. The lookup table of associates application identifying information e.g. information for applications of a video gaming platform with a Watermark Type Source Identifier and Time In Content information to be inserted in media via watermark s . While example fields of data to be included in a watermark are described any number and or types of fields may be inserted in the media e.g. inserted in the media as a watermark . The lookup table may alternatively include any number of tables or may be implemented by a single table. The lookup table may be implemented by any type of datastore for associating information including a table a database etc.

Returning to the system of the network of the illustrated example communicatively couples the media presentation device with the network the media provider and the monitoring facility . The example network also communicatively couples the meter to the monitoring facility . For example the network may be the Internet. Alternatively the network may be implemented by any number of networks such as local area networks wide area networks wireless networks wired networks etc.

The example media provider of provides media e.g. on demand video media to the media application for presentation by the media presentation device . For example the media provider may provide cloud access to a library of movies e.g. Netflix Hulu Amazon videos etc. . Additionally or alternatively the media provider may provide any other type s of media and may provide media in any other manner.

The meter of the illustrated example detects the presentation of media by the media presentation e.g. media presented by components of the media presentation device and or media presented via another media presentation device such as a television and extracts the watermark s embedded in the media. For example the meter may be a portable metering device carried by a member of a panel or a stationary meter located to meter a specific presentation device or set of presentation devices. The meter may include a microphone that captures sound near the portable metering device. When such a meter is near the media output by the media presentation device the microphone captures the audio output by the media presentation device . The meter of the illustrated example decodes the watermark s embedded in the audio. In alternative examples the audio is sent to the monitoring facility for watermark extraction. The example meter of temporarily stores the watermark s and or media identifying information and or application identifying information determined from watermark s . The collected watermark s and or identifying information are periodically and or aperiodically exported to the monitoring facility . While a single meter is illustrated in any number of meters may be included in the system e.g. one meter per panelist one meter per panel household etc. . The meter may be any type of meter such as one of the meters described in the applications incorporated in this patent by the foregoing incorporations by reference.

The monitoring facility of the illustrated example receives information collected by the meter stores the information analyzes the information in conjunction with other data collected by other meters similar to the meter of but controlled to monitor other media presentation devices and or panelist and or generates reports. The example monitoring facility of periodically and or aperiodically sends updated identifying information to the identification generator for updating the lookup table . For example periodically aperiodically automatically manually or at any other time the monitoring facility may send identifying information for new media e.g. a new video game that is released to the identification generator via the network . Accordingly the lookup table can be updated to include the latest identifying information. Alternatively the monitoring facility may not update the lookup table or may provide updates to the lookup table in any other manner.

According to the illustrated example the identification generator the watermark generator and the lookup table are provided by an operator of the monitoring facility to a manufacturer of the media presentation device for inclusion in the media presentation device at the time of manufacture. For example the identification generator may be provided as a software development kit SDK for integration in the media presentation device . In such examples the identification generator the watermark generator and or the lookup table may exist dormant in the media presentation device unless and until a purchaser of the product agrees to become a panelist. A purchaser may agree to become a panelist in any way e.g. by calling the monitoring company entering data including the internet protocol address of the purchased device accessing a menu in the purchased device etc. . In such examples the purchaser is provided an opportunity to become a panelist. For instance a consumer electronic device such as a television or electronic gaming system may be sold as ratings ready e.g. as illustrated in and optionally a rebate on the purchase may be provided in exchange for the purchaser agreeing to be anonymously monitored by the embedded monitoring software. In some examples activating the monitoring functionality includes providing demographic data to the monitoring entity and or receiving approval of an agreement e.g. by selecting an I Agree user input when activating the monitoring functionality. Alternatively the identification generator and the lookup table may be included in the media presentation device in any other manner e.g. implemented and integrated by the manufacturer of the media presentation device installed on the media presentation device by a user of the media presentation device installed on the media presentation device by an agent of an operator of the monitoring facility pushed to the media presentation device by the monitoring facility and so forth.

The lookup table updater receives updated identifying information for the lookup table of via for example the network and updates the lookup table via the lookup table interface . The lookup table updater may add to delete and or update information in the lookup table . According to the illustrated example the updated media and or application identifying information is received from the monitoring facility via the network . Alternatively updated identifying information may be received from any other source such as a removable storage associated with the media presentation device data input by an operator of the media presentation device etc.

The lookup table interface is an interface to the lookup table for the lookup table updater and the data compiler . For example the lookup table interface may be a database engine that facilitates queries and or other access to the lookup table . Alternatively the lookup table interface may be any other type of interface and or may be integrated in one or both of the lookup table updater and or the data compiler .

The device interface of the illustrated example interfaces with an operating system of the media presentation device to obtain information about applications executing on or about to execute on the media presentation device . For example the device interface may obtain application identifying information for the media application of by querying the operating system of the media presentation device for information about a currently executing application providing media. The device interface may additionally or alternatively obtain application identifying information from a process listing an API a task list processor instructions etc. The device interface provides the information about the applications to the data compiler .

The application interface of the illustrated example interfaces to an application executing on the media presentation device e.g. the media application to obtain information about media presented by or about to be presented by the application. For example the application interface may obtain identifying information for the media by querying the API of the media application . In some examples while the operating system of the media presentation device is aware of the application executing on the media presentation device e.g. a Netflix application the operating system may not be aware of the media presented by the application e.g. a movie selected by an operator of the media presentation device . Accordingly the application interface can determine identifying information for the media even when the identifying information is not known to the operating system of the media presentation device . The application interface provides the information about the media to the data compiler .

The data compiler receives application identifying information f from the device interface and receives media identifying information from the application interface . The data compiler queries the lookup table via the lookup table interface to obtain watermark information for the identifying information and passes the watermark information to the watermark generator of for insertion into the media.

While an example manner of implementing the example system has been illustrated in and an example manner of implementing the example identification generator and or the watermark generator of has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in and or may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example media presentation device the example media provider the example meter the example monitoring facility the example media application the example media rendering engine the identification generator and the watermark generator of and the example lookup table updater the example lookup table interface the example device interface the example application interface and the example data compiler of and more generally the example system of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus the example media presentation device the example media provider the example meter the example monitoring facility the example media application the example media rendering engine the identification generator and the watermark generator of and the example lookup table updater the example lookup table interface the example device interface the example application interface and the example data compiler of and more generally the example system of could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example media presentation device the example media provider the example meter the example monitoring facility the example media application the example media rendering engine the identification generator and the watermark generator of and the example lookup table updater the example lookup table interface the example device interface the example application interface and the example data compiler of and more generally the example system of are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a memory or storage disk e.g. DVD CD Blu ray etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example media presentation device the example media provider the example meter the example monitoring facility the example media application the example media rendering engine the identification generator and the watermark generator of and the example lookup table updater the example lookup table interface the example device interface the example application interface and the example data compiler of and more generally the example system of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the identification generator and or the watermark generator are shown in and or . In the illustrated examples the machine readable instructions comprise program s for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processing platform discussed below in connection with . The program s may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program s and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example programs are described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing identification generator and or the watermark generator may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disc and to exclude propagating signals. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended. Thus a claim using at least as the transition term in its preamble may include elements in addition to those expressly recited in the claim.

The instructions of begin when the device interface detects presentation of media by the media presentation device block . For example the device interface may detect that the media application has been initialized that a command to present media has been issued that a notification has been received from an operation system of the media presentation device e.g. due to a built in event notification of the operation system that a notification has been received from the application etc. At block the device interface detects application identifying information for the media application block . The data compiler next determines watermark identifier s for the application by querying the lookup table via the lookup table interface and using the detected application identifying information block . The watermark generator then generates a watermark based on the determined identifier s block . The watermark may be static for the duration of the presentation of the media and thus the detection of identifying information may be performed once for the duration of the presentation of the media. Alternatively the watermark may be dynamically generated throughout the presentation of the media and thus the detection of identifying information may be performed throughout the presentation of the media.

The watermark generator acquires the audio of the media from the media rendering engine processes the audio to inject the watermark into the audio and returns the audio to the media rendering engine block . Alternatively the watermark generator may obtain and inject the watermark into video may obtain and inject the watermark into audio and video of the media or use any other process for watermarking media. The watermark generator may be configured to always receive the audio and or video from the media rendering engine . Alternatively the watermark generator may periodically receive the audio and or video may aperiodically receive the audio and or video may receive the audio and or video upon a request from the watermark generator to the media rendering engine etc. The watermark generator may generate a watermark including identifying information for the application in the fields of the watermark typically dedicated to the identification of media. For example a Source Identifier field of a watermark is typically filled with information identifying a media provider channel broadcaster etc. that provided media and a Time In Content field is typically filled with information indicating a position e.g. time from the beginning of the media. The example watermark generator generates the watermark for the application as a Final Distributor watermark.

Next the application interface retrieves identifying information for the media from the media application block . The watermark generator next determines an identifier s for the media by querying the lookup table via the lookup table interface and using the detected identifying information for the media block . The data compiler next determines watermark identifier s for the application by querying the lookup table via the lookup table interface and using the detected application identifying information block . The watermark generator then generates a watermark based on the determined identifier s block . The watermark generator acquires the audio of the media from the media rendering engine e.g. in real time processes the audio to inject the watermark into the audio and returns the audio to the media rendering engine block . Alternatively the watermark generator may obtain and inject the watermark into video may obtain and inject the watermark into audio and video of the media or use any other process for watermarking media. For example the watermark generator may generate a watermark including identifying information for the application in the fields of the watermark typically dedicated to the identification of media e.g. the Source Identifier field and the Time In Content field . The example watermark generator generates the watermark for the media as a Program Content watermark.

The example instructions of are complete after block . Alternatively the identification generator may continue to insert the generated watermarks alternating or interleaving the watermarks in the media output by the media rendering engine of the media presentation device. In some examples the identification generator may include additional information in the watermark s . For example the watermark s may include an indication of the amount of time that the media is presented information identifying portions of the media e.g. a level of a video game a timecode of a video etc. and so forth.

While the foregoing describes generating and inserting an application watermark and then generating and inserting a media watermark other implementations are possible. For example an application watermark may be utilized without a media watermark or a media watermark may be utilized without an application watermark. Alternatively separate processes may be utilized for application watermarking and media watermarking. In such instances the separate processes may run in parallel in series and or each process may execute without regard to the other process. In some implementations the watermark generator may check for previously inserted watermarks before inserting a watermark in media. For example the watermark generator may determine that a media watermark has already been inserted when inserting an application watermark. When a previously inserted watermark has been detected the watermark generator may utilize any known technique for inserting an additional watermark e.g. inserting the watermark at a different time inserting the watermark using a different encoding technique inserting the watermark at a different frequency setting a flag indicating the presence of multiple watermarks etc. .

While the foregoing describes determining watermarking information using a lookup table that associates information associated with media and applications e.g. manufacturer identifiers with the watermark information other approaches for determining watermark information to be inserted into media may be utilized. For example the media identifying information and or the application identifying information may be inserted into the watermark e.g. in a Time in Content field and or in a Source Identifier field . In some instances the size s of the media identifying information and or the application identifying information may exceed the capacity of the watermark payload or may be undesirably large such that the watermarks will exceed a desired length . In such instances the identifying information may be compacted to a size that is less than the capacity of the watermark payload and or a size that is a less than a desired threshold. For example if a DVD identifier on a disk is xyz123abc456 includes a portion that uniquely identifies the media e.g. abc456 and a portion that identifies information not unique to the media e.g. a genre a production studio a rating etc. the identification generator may compact the identifier to the unique portion e.g. abc456 removing the non unique portion. Thus the shorter unique portion of the identifier can be inserted in a watermark payload.

The media presentation device displays an agreement that explains the monitoring process requests consent for monitoring usage of the media presentation device provides options for agreeing e.g. an I Agree button or disagreeing I Disagree block . The media presentation device then waits for a user to indicate a selection block . When the user indicates that they disagree e.g. do not want to enable monitoring the instructions of terminate. When the user indicates that they agree e.g. that they want to be monitored the media presentation device obtains demographic information from the user block . For example the media presentation device may display a form requesting demographic information e.g. number of people in the household ages occupations etc. . The media presentation device transmits the demographic information to the monitoring entity block . Transmitting the demographic information may indicate to the monitoring entity that monitoring at the media presentation device is authorized. The monitoring entity may authorize a rebate for the consumer transmitting the demographic information and or for registering for monitoring. The monitoring entity may transmit an identifier e.g. a panelist identifier to the media presentation device for uniquely identifying monitoring information sent from the media presentation device to the monitoring entity. The media presentation device then enables monitoring of media presented by the media presentation device block . The instructions of are then terminated.

The processor platform of the instant example includes a processor . For example the processor can be implemented by one or more microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor includes a local memory e.g. a cache and is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

One or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit . The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit thus typically includes a graphics driver card.

The interface circuit also includes a communication device such as a modem or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external computers via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives and digital versatile disk DVD drives. The mass storage device may implement the example lookup table of and or any other storage element.

The coded instructions of may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

