---

title: Mandelic acid condensation polymers
abstract: Disclosed herein are compounds and compositions useful for reducing the risk of infection. In particular, disclosed herein are mandelic acid condensation polymers, compositions comprising such compounds, processes for producing such compounds, and methods of using such compounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527793&OS=09527793&RS=09527793
owner: RUSH UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
number: 09527793
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This is a U.S. national stage entry of International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 067452 filed on Nov. 30 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 566 441 filed on Dec. 2 2011 the entire contents of all of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract nos. R43AI084225 01A2 and P01 HD41763 03 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to acid condensation polymers and more particularly to mandelic acid condensation polymers compositions comprising such compounds methods of using such compounds and compositions and processes for preparing such compounds.

The HIV AIDS epidemic has significantly and dramatically underscored the threat of STDs to the human population. Until there is a cure or at least an effective treatment the best and perhaps only realistic approach to this increasing problem of STDs especially HIV AIDS appears to be reducing the risk of transmission of STDs by the causative pathogens and thus reducing the number of new infections. Even when STD treatments or cures become available prevention will likely remain as the first line of defense for economic and medical reasons.

At present education in regard to STDs their modes of transmission and so called safe sex techniques has at least to some degree in the more developed countries shown promise in reducing the risks of STD transmission through sexual activity. Screening of the blood supply has helped to reduce the risk of transmission of such STD causing organisms via blood transfusions and related medical practices. Nonetheless the spread of such STDs has not been halted to a satisfactory degree even in developed countries with active and progressive education programs. Even with their known effectiveness in preventing STDs current safe sex techniques are not always used or are not always used properly for many reasons e.g. carelessness lack of knowledge improper techniques cultural barriers unplanned or spontaneous sexual activity and the like . Moreover even when used correctly safe sex techniques are not always effective. Various birth control devices including barrier methods and vaginal contraceptives are currently available. Some of these may in addition also have a least some degree of anti STD activity.

Sexually transmitted diseases especially HIV AIDS also present risks to health care providers and laboratory personnel working with STD infected patients and or blood and tissue samples from such patients. Physical contact with the bodily fluids of infected patients can especially if there are breaks or cuts in the skin increase the risk of transmission of the STD causing organisms. In recent years such health care providers and laboratory personnel have increasingly donned protective clothing and equipment when working with patients or biological samples where exposure to bodily fluids is possible. Latex gloves often double or triple layered goggles protective clothing and the like are often used when treating or examining patients in both medical and dental offices or working with biological samples from patients e.g. blood tissue and the like . In spite of these precautions exposure to bodily fluids can still occur. For example sudden movement by a patient while having a blood sample withdrawn can cause blood to splatter and perhaps come in contact with an unprotected part of the body of other persons in the area needle punctures or scalpel cuts can expose health care providers to bodily fluids in spite of gloves and other protective layers or aerosols containing blood and or saliva can be generated during dental procedures which may contact the body of other persons. Although contact with unbroken and healthy skin is unlikely to result in transmission of the STD breaks cuts or damage to the protective skin layer can increase the risk of transmission.

Treatments are available for many STDs subsequent to infection but such infections are increasingly showing resistance to available treatments. For example HIV can become drug resistant to convention antiretroviral therapies. This phenomenon is well established and is monitored by the WHO in developing countries. In the Unites States 50 of HIV patients receiving treatment are known to be infected with a strain of HIV that expresses resistance to at least one known treatment drug. In one study nearly 30 of new HIV infections in one region of Africa were of a drug resistant strain. The particular drug had been introduced only 18 months earlier. Patients with HIV must be monitored for such drug resistance and are typically on a cocktail of drugs to maintain suppression of the infection. Not only can a sexually active person become infected with an already drug resistant strain but once infected and under treatment HIV can mutate and thus become resistant to further treatment.

Accordingly what is needed are improved compounds compositions and methods for reducing the risk of STD infections. It would be desirable if such compounds compositions and methods would not interfere with the natural and protective vaginal mechanisms so as to maintain the naturally protective vaginal flora and maintain integrity of vaginal and cervical tissues yet prevent pathogens from infecting host cells such as macrophages and CD4 cells. It would also be desirable if such compounds compositions and methods would be relatively easy to use and have significantly fewer side effects than currently available products so that it would more likely be used on a consistent basis. It would also be desirable if such compounds compositions and methods could be used in heterosexual homosexual and bisexual relationships and for a wide range of sexual activities. It would also be desirable if such compounds compositions and methods could be implemented by either party to the sexual activity. It would also be desirable to provide compounds compositions and methods by which the risk of infection by sexually transmitted diseases especially HIV AIDS could be reduced for individuals working with patients and or biological samples.

R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycle heteroaryl aryl and counterion 

Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycle heteroaryl and aryl 

R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkoxy hydroxy and halogen 

Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycle heteroaryl aryl and counterion.

In another aspect disclosed are compositions comprising a compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Preferably the compositions are adapted for topical use as protective agents against transmission of one or more sexually transmitted diseases and in particular HIV HSV.

In yet another aspect disclosed is a process for producing a compound of the invention. In one embodiment the process comprises cooling a strong acid to a temperature below 0 C. preferably below 10 C. more preferably below 25 C. and most preferably below about 30 C. and adding mandelic acid or a mandelic acid derivative to the strong acid to provide a reaction mixture. In another embodiment the process comprises providing a reaction mixture comprising mandelic acid or a mandelic acid derivative and a strong acid wherein the reaction mixture is at a reduced temperature ranging from about 45 C. to about 5 C. preferably from about 35 C. to 30 C.

In another aspect disclosed is a method for reducing the risk of infection. In one embodiment the method comprises applying to the body or portion of the body of an individual an effective amount of a protective agent wherein the protective agent comprises a compound of the invention. In another embodiment the method comprises contacting a pathogen or cells susceptible to infection by the pathogen with an effective amount of a compound of the invention thereby reducing the risk of transmission of the pathogen.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In case of conflict the present document including definitions will control. Preferred methods and materials are described below although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in practice or testing of the present invention. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The materials methods and examples disclosed herein are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

The terms comprise s include s having has can contain s and variants thereof as used herein are intended to be open ended transitional phrases terms or words that do not preclude the possibility of additional acts or structures. The present disclosure also contemplates other embodiments comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of the embodiments or elements presented herein whether explicitly set forth or not.

As used herein the term suitable substituent is intended to mean a chemically and pharmaceutically acceptable functional group i.e. a moiety that does not negate the biological activity of the inventive compounds. Such suitable substituents may be routinely selected by those skilled in the art. Illustrative examples of suitable substituents include but are not limited to halo groups perfluoroalkyl groups perfluoroalkoxy groups alkyl groups alkenyl groups alkynyl groups hydroxy groups oxo groups mercapto groups alkylthio groups alkoxy groups aryl or heteroaryl groups aryloxy or heteroaryloxy groups aralkyl or heteroaralkyl groups aralkoxy or heteroaralkoxy groups HO C O groups heterocylic groups cycloalkyl groups amino groups alkyl and dialkylamino groups carbamoyl groups alkylcarbonyl groups alkoxycarbonyl groups alkylaminocarbonyl groups dialkylamino carbonyl groups arylcarbonyl groups aryloxycarbonyl groups alkylsulfonyl groups arylsulfonyl groups and the like. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many substituents can be substituted by additional substituents.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbons. Alkyl groups of the present invention include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl secondary butyl and tertiary butyl. Alkyl groups of the present invention may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 3 suitable substituents as defined above. Preferred alkyls include C C alkyl more preferred are C C alkyl and most preferred are methyl and ethyl.

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a mono bicyclic or tricyclic carbocyclic radical e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl and bicyclo 5.2.0 nonanyl etc. optionally containing 1 or 2 double bonds. Cycloalkyl groups of the present invention may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 5 suitable substituents as defined above.

As used herein the term alkenyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon radical having 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbons and having one or more carbon carbon double bonds. Alkenyl groups of the present invention include but are not limited to ethenyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl allyl iso propenyl 2 methyl 1 propenyl 1 butenyl and 2 butenyl. Alkenyl groups of the present invention may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 3 suitable substituents as defined above.

As used herein the term alkoxy refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.

As used herein the term alkynyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon radical having 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbons and having one or more carbon carbon triple bonds. Alkynyl groups of the present invention include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl and butynyl. Alkynyl groups of the present invention may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 3 suitable substituents as defined above.

As used herein the term carbonyl or C O as used in phrases such as alkylcarbonyl alkyl C O or alkoxycarbonyl refers to the joinder of the C O moiety to a second moiety such as an alkyl or amino group i.e. an amido group . Alkoxycarbonylamino i.e. alkoxy C O NH refers to an alkyl carbamate group. The carbonyl group is also equivalently defined herein as C O . Alkylcarbonylamino refers to groups such as acetamide.

As used herein the term oxo refers to a double bonded oxygen O radical wherein the bond partner is a carbon atom. Such a radical can also be thought as a carbonyl group.

As used herein the term aryl means monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic aromatic radicals such as phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl indanyl and the like optionally substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 5 suitable substituents as defined above.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic aromatic heterocyclic group containing one or more heteroatoms selected from O S and N in the ring s . Heteroaryl groups of the present invention include but are not limited to pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl thienyl furyl imidazolyl pyrrolyl oxazolyl e.g. 1 3 oxazolyl 1 2 oxazolyl thiazolyl e.g. 1 2 thiazolyl 1 3 thiazolyl pyrazolyl tetrazolyl triazolyl e.g. 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl oxadiazolyl e.g. 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl e.g. 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl benzothienyl benzofuryl and indolyl. Heteroaryl groups of the present invention may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 5 suitable substituents as defined above.

As used herein the term heterocycle refers to a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic group containing 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O S O NH or NR wherein R is a suitable substituent. Heterocyclic groups of the present invention optionally contain 1 or 2 double bonds. Heterocyclic groups of the present invention include but are not limited to azetidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl imidazolidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl oxazolidinyl thiazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl thiomorpholinyl tetrahydrothiazinyl tetrahydro thiadiazinyl morpholinyl oxetanyl tetrahydrodiazinyl oxazinyl oxathiazinyl indolinyl isoindolinyl quinuclidinyl chromanyl isochromanyl and benzoxazinyl. Examples of monocyclic saturated or partially saturated ring systems are tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydrofuran 3 yl imidazolidin 1 yl imidazolidin 2 yl imidazolidin 4 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 2 yl pyrrolidin 3 yl piperidin 1 yl piperidin 2 yl piperidin 3 yl piperazin 1 yl piperazin 2 yl piperazin 3 yl 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl isothiazolidine 1 3 thiazolidin 3 yl 1 2 pyrazolidin 2 yl 1 3 pyrazolidin 1 yl thiomorpholin yl 1 2 tetrahydrothiazin 2 yl 1 3 tetrahydrothiazin 3 yl tetrahydrothiadiazin yl morpholin yl 1 2 tetrahydrodiazin 2 yl 1 3 tetrahydrodiazin 1 yl 1 4 oxazin 2 yl and 1 2 5 oxathiazin 4 yl. Heterocyclic groups of the present invention may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more suitable substituents preferably 1 to 3 suitable substituents as defined above.

As used herein the term counterion refers to a cationic species that is a suitable counterion for a carboxylate group. Suitable counterions of the present invention include but are not limited to sodium cation potassium cation calcium cation magnesium cation and ammonium cation.

Disclosed herein are mandelic acid condensation polymers also referred to herein as polyphenylenecarboxymethylene PPCM compounds. The inventors have unexpectedly and surprisingly discovered that these compounds can be obtained by acid catalyzed polymerization of mandelic acid under controlled reaction conditions. In particular it has been discovered that reaction temperature rate of addition of reactants and reaction medium are important factors in obtaining mandelic acid condensation polymers of the present invention. By conducting the acid catalyzed polymerization of mandelic acid or a mandelic acid derivative at reduced temperature specifically below 0 C. preferably below 10 C. more preferably below 25 C. and most preferably below about 30 C. by controlling the rate of addition of mandelic acid reactant to the reaction mixture and by use of neat reaction conditions mandelic acid condensation polymers of the present invention can be selectively formed and obtained in high yield.

R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycle heteroaryl aryl and counterion 

Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycle heteroaryl and aryl 

R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkoxy hydroxy and halogen 

In certain embodiments n is an integer selected from 1 to 70 more preferably an integer selected from 1 to 60 and most preferably an integer selected from 10 to 22.

In a preferred embodiment R R R and Rare each hydrogen and x y and z are each zero. Preferably n is an integer selected from 1 to 70 more preferably an integer selected from 1 to 60 and most preferably an integer selected from 10 to 22.

In another preferred embodiment R R R are each methyl Ris hydrogen and x y and z are each zero. Preferably n is an integer selected from 1 to 70 more preferably an integer selected from 1 to 60 and most preferably an integer selected from 10 to 22.

In another preferred embodiment R R and Rare each sodium cation Ris hydrogen and x y and z are each zero. Preferably n is an integer selected from 1 to 70 more preferably an integer selected from 1 to 60 and most preferably an integer selected from 10 to 22.

In another aspect polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds according to the present invention are compounds having repeating units of formula II 

Rin each repeating unit is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycle heteroaryl aryl and counterion.

Preferably the polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds have about 1 to about 60 repeating units preferably about 1 to about 20 repeating units and most preferably about 10 to about 22 repeating units.

In a preferred embodiment the polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds comprise repeating units of formula II wherein Ris selected from hydrogen. In another preferred embodiment the polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds comprise repeating units of formula II wherein Ris selected from methyl. In another preferred embodiment the polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds comprise repeating units of formula II wherein Ris selected from sodium cation. In certain embodiments the polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds comprise repeating units of formula II wherein Ris variable preferably independently selected from hydrogen methyl and sodium cation.

The compounds of the invention contain asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereomeric mixtures and individual diastereomers. Additional asymmetric centers may be present depending upon the nature of the various substituents on the molecule. Each such asymmetric center will independently produce two optical isomers and it is intended that all of the possible optical isomers and diastereomers in mixtures and as pure or partially purified compounds are included within the scope of this invention. The present invention is meant to comprehend all such isomeric forms of these compounds.

Specific embodiments of the present invention include compounds disclosed in the Examples provided herein and the pharmaceutically acceptable salt ester amide and prodrug forms thereof.

The compounds of the invention can be prepared and isolated as polymeric compositions comprising a distribution of compounds of formula I . Preferably the composition comprises a distribution of compounds of formula I wherein n ranges from 1 to 70 more preferably from 1 to 60 and most preferably from 10 to 22 and specifically preferably wherein n averages about 20.

In a preferred embodiment the polymeric compositions comprise compounds of formula I wherein R R R and Rare each hydrogen and x y and z are each zero. In another preferred embodiment the polymeric compositions comprise compounds of formula I wherein R R R are each methyl Ris hydrogen and x y and z are each zero. In another preferred embodiment the polymeric compositions comprise compounds of formula I wherein R R and Rare each sodium cation Ris hydrogen and x y and z are each zero. In certain embodiments the polymeric compositions comprise a distribution of compounds of formula I wherein R R R and Rare variable among compounds of the composition and optionally within the individual compounds of the composition.

The compounds of the invention can be prepared and isolated as polymeric compositions comprising a distribution of polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds having repeating units of formula II . Preferably the composition comprises a distribution of polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds having about 1 to about 60 repeating units of formula II preferably about 1 to about 20 repeating units of formula II and most preferably about 10 to about 22 repeating units of formula II .

In a preferred embodiment the polymeric compositions comprise polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds having repeating units of formula II wherein Ris selected from hydrogen. In another preferred embodiment the polymeric compositions comprise polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds having repeating units of formula II wherein Ris selected from methyl. In another preferred embodiment the polymeric compositions comprise polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds having repeating units of formula II wherein Ris selected from sodium cation. In certain embodiments the polymeric compositions comprise polyphenylenecarboxymethylene compounds having repeating units of formula II wherein Ris variable among compounds of the composition and optionally within individual compounds of the composition preferably where Ris independently selected from hydrogen methyl and sodium cation.

In general the bulk polymer compositions of the present invention have a molecular weight range from about 200 to about 10 000 daltons Da preferably from about 400 to about 8 000 Da most preferably from about 600 to about 6 000 Da and specifically preferably from about 2 000 to about 6 500 Da.

The compounds and compositions of the invention can be better understood in connection with the following synthetic schemes and methods which illustrate a means by which the polymers can be prepared.

Mandelic acid condensation polymers of formula 3 can be prepared as described in Scheme 1. Treatment of dl mandelic acid 1 a mandelic acid derivative or a combination thereof with a strong acid 2 preferably concentrated sulfuric acid will provide mandelic acid condensation polymers of formula 3 . Preferably the polymerization reaction is conducted at a temperature below 0 C. preferably from about 45 C. to about 5 C. more preferably from about 40 C. to about 15 C. most preferably from about 35 C. to about 30 C.

In certain embodiments the polymerization reaction is conducted in the absence of solvent and thus under neat reaction conditions. For example the strong acid of formula 2 preferably concentrated sulfuric acid may serve as both the acid catalyst for polymerization and the reaction medium.

In certain embodiments the polymerization reaction is conducted by first cooling the strong acid to a temperature below 0 C. preferably from about 45 C. to about 5 C. more preferably from about 40 C. to about 15 C. most preferably from about 35 C. to about 30 C. followed by addition of the mandelic acid reactant. Where the polymerization is conducted on a large scale preferably the mandelic acid is added in aliquots over an extended time period e.g. 30 minutes .

Ester derivatives of the mandelic acid condensation polymers of the present invention can be prepared as described in Scheme 2. Mandelic acid condensation polymers of formula 3 when treated with an alcohol of formula 4 such as methanol in the presence of an acid catalyst such as sulfuric acid will provide ester derivatives of formula 5 .

The ester derivatives of formula 5 can be hydrolyzed to the free acid as described in Scheme 3. Ester derivatives of formula 5 when treated with a strong base MOH of formula 6 e.g. sodium hydroxide in aqueous solvent followed by acid quench e.g. with hydrochloric acid will provide mandelic acid condensation polymers of formula 3 .

Salts of the mandelic acid condensation polymers of the present invention can be prepared as described in Scheme 4. Mandelic acid condensation polymers of formula 3 when treated with a strong base of formula 6 e.g. sodium hydroxide in an alcoholic aqueous solvent will provide salt derivatives of formula 7 such as the sodium salt form i.e. M Na .

In certain embodiments the products may be further modified for example by manipulation of substituents. These manipulations may include but are not limited to reduction oxidation organometallic cross coupling alkylation acylation and hydrolysis reactions which are commonly known to those skilled in the art. In some cases the order of carrying out the foregoing reaction schemes may be varied to facilitate the reaction or to avoid unwanted reaction products.

The compounds of the invention including bulk polymeric compositions comprising a distribution of polymeric compounds of the invention can be formulated into compositions useful for reducing the risk of transmission of viral and bacterial infections. A compound or composition of the invention can be adapted for topical administration to a subject including dermal intravaginal or intrarectal use including a suppository a bioadhesive polymer or a vaginal disk which can provide timed release of protective agent. Optionally compounds and compositions of the present invention can be formulated in combination with a solid substrate to produce a condom diaphragm sponge tampon a glove or the like which can be composed for example of an organic polymer such as polyvinyl chloride latex polyurethane polyacrylate polyester polyethylene terephthalate poly ethylene co vinyl acetate polymethacrylate silicone rubber a silicon elastomer polystyrene polycarbonate a polysulfone or the like.

For topical administration compounds and compositions of the present invention can be formulated into a composition with any pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Topical compositions of the present invention can be for example in the form of a cream a foam a jelly a lotion an ointment a solution a spray or a gel. In addition compositions according to the invention can contain one or more additional agents for example an antimicrobial agent such as an antibiotic or an antimicrobial dye such as methylene blue or gentian violet an antiviral agent such as a nucleoside analog a zinc salt or a cellulose phthalate such as cellulose acetate phthalate or a hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate a contraceptive a lubricant or any agent generally useful to a sexually active individual.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier useful in a composition of the invention can be aqueous or non aqueous for example alcoholic or oleaginous or a mixture thereof and can contain a surfactant emollient lubricant stabilizer dye perfume preservative acid or base for adjustment of pH a solvent emulsifier gelling agent moisturizer stabilizer wetting agent time release agent humectant or other component commonly included in a particular form of pharmaceutical composition. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well known in the art and include for example aqueous solutions such as water or physiologically buffered saline or other solvents or vehicles such as glycols glycerol oils such as olive oil or injectable organic esters. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can contain physiologically acceptable compounds that act for example to stabilize or to increase the absorption of the compounds of the invention for example carbohydrates such as glucose sucrose or dextrans antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or glutathione chelating agents low molecular weight proteins or other stabilizers or excipients.

The pharmaceutical compositions also can comprise an admixture with an organic or inorganic carrier or excipient suitable for intravaginal or intrarectal administration and can be compounded for example with the usual non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for tablets pellets capsules suppositories solutions emulsions suspensions or other form suitable for use. The carriers in addition to those disclosed above can include glucose lactose mannose gum acacia gelatin mannitol starch paste magnesium trisilicate talc corn starch keratin colloidal silica potato starch urea medium chain length triglycerides dextrans and other carriers suitable for use in manufacturing preparations in solid semisolid or liquid form. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening or coloring agents and perfumes can be used for example a stabilizing dry agent such as triulose.

Compounds and bulk polymeric compositions of the invention can be incorporated within an encapsulating material such as into an oil in water emulsion a microemulsion micelle mixed micelle liposome microsphere or other polymer matrix. Liposomes for example which consist of phospholipids or other lipids are nontoxic physiologically acceptable and metabolizable carriers that are relatively simple to make and administer.

Compositions of the present invention may be used at or about the time of sexual activity and more preferably prior to initiating sexual contact. The manner of use will depend in part on the form of the composition for example whether the composition is in a liquid or liquid like form such as a jelly a douche a cream or the like or whether the compounds of the invention are formulated with a solid substrate such as a sponge diaphragm tampon pessary condom or the like. When formulated as such a composition compounds of the present invention can be impregnated into an absorptive material such as a sponge or tampon or coated onto the surface of a relatively impermeable solid substrate such as a condom or diaphragm or on medical gloves.

The amount of the compounds of the present invention in a composition can be varied depending on the type of composition such that the amount present is sufficient to reduce the ability of a pathogen to attach and enter a host cell. An effective amount of a compound of the present invention can block infection of susceptible cells by a pathogen such as free HIV or cell associated HIV present in a secretion or by uptake of the pathogen due to binding to otherwise non susceptible cells which then transfer the pathogen to susceptible cells. An example of such an amount is about 1 to 100 mM generally about 5 to 30 mM when administered in an ointment gel foam spray or the like or about 0.1 to 2 grams generally about 0.25 to 0.75 grams when administered as a suppository or in combination with a solid substrate. An effective amount of a compound of the present invention also can be measured in a weight weight w w or weight volume w v amount for example about 0.1 to 4 w w with respect to a solid substrate or about 0.1 to 4 w v with respect to a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In addition an amount of a compound of the present invention sufficient to reducing the risk of transmission of a sexually transmitted disease can be determined using routine clinical methods.

The compounds and compositions of the present invention are useful for reducing the risk of infection by blocking pathogenic attachment and entry into host cells. In particular the compounds and compositions are useful as noncytotoxic broad spectrum antimicrobial agents with anti HIV anti HSV and anti bacterial activities. The compounds and compositions are compatible with natural and protective vaginal mechanisms are relatively easy to use and have significantly fewer side effects than currently available products. The compounds and compositions can be used in heterosexual homosexual and bisexual relationships and for a wide range of sexual activities. The compounds and compositions are useful for reducing the risk of infection by sexually transmitted diseases especially HIV AIDS for individuals working with patients and or biological samples.

A method for protecting an individual from contracting a disease through contact with a bodily fluid comprises applying to the body or portion of the body of the individual an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention also referred to herein as a protective agent. A method of reducing the risk of transmission of a sexually transmitted pathogen to a human subject comprises contacting the pathogen or cells susceptible to infection by the pathogen with an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention thereby reducing the risk of transmission of the pathogen. In one preferred embodiment an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention is administered topically to the subject in need thereof before or after sexual intercourse. In another preferred embodiment an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention is added to bodily fluids such as semen for the purpose of removing or inhibiting pathogens.

The compounds and compositions can be used to inhibit proliferation of microbial cells such as those associated with a sexually transmitted disease or infection. Contacting the microbial cell with one or more of the compounds of the present invention interferes with inhibits or prevents a function or activity of the cell necessary for cellular proliferation. Cell proliferation assays as are known and standard in the art can be used to determine the efficacy of the compounds and compositions as an anti proliferative agents.

It is contemplated that the topical compounds and compositions of the present invention are effective against drug resistant sexually transmitted diseases as well as emerging infectious diseases transmitted via body fluids particularly semen vaginal fluid saliva and rectal or anal mucus. The sexually transmitted diseases or infections that the compounds and compositions are effective against include but are not limited to HIV AIDS HPV also called genital warts HSV chancroid crab lice gonorrhea hepatitis lympogranuloma venereum LGV molluscum contagiosum poxvirus of the Molluscipox virus genus nongonococcal urethritis NGU pelvic inflammatory disease PID scabies the skin mite syphilis and vaginitis trichomoniasis .

The individual of the methods disclosed herein includes any individual that is at risk of transmission of a sexually transmitted disease including sexually active individuals and individuals that may be exposed to sexually transmitted diseases through other means. The subject may be female. In such cases the compounds and compositions can be administered as a vaginal or rectal ointment which is applied buccally vaginally and or rectally such as for example as a suppository. An average vaginal dose may be delivered in a 2 ointment with about 18 mg mL of protective agent delivering about 90 mg per 5 mL or a 1 ointment with about 9 mg mL of protective agent delivering about 45 mg per 5 mL.

Alternatively the subject is male. In such cases the compounds and compositions may be administered via the rectum as a topical ointment applied buccally and or rectally such as for example as a suppository or to the penis as a cream ointment spray or lubricant for use with or without a condom. Alternatively the subject at risk has been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease or infection.

Methods of the present invention also encompass co administering to a patient in need of the protective agents of the present invention another drug effective against a sexually transmitted disease or infection anti STD drug . For example and without being limiting a person with HIV may have a compound or composition of the present invention co administered with highly active antiretroviral therapies HAART . These include for example Nucleoside Reverse Transcription Inhibitor NRTIs such as Zidovudine Didanosine Zalcitabine Stavudine Lamivudine Abacavir Tenofovir Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors NNRTIs such as Nevirapine Delavirdine Efavirenz Protease Inhibitors such as Indinavir Ritonavir Nelfinavir Saquinavir Amprenavir Lopinavir. One of ordinary skill in the art is well able to determine which drug therapy including dose and dosing schedule is suitable in combination with the protective agents disclosed herein based on a subject s medical history and the progression of the disease.

The compounds compositions methods and processes of the invention will be better understood by reference to the following examples which are intended as an illustration of and not a limitation upon the scope of the invention.

Melting points reported herein were determined with a Thomas Hoover capillary melting point apparatus and are uncorrected. H nuclear magnetic resonance NMR and C NMR spectra were determined using Bruker 300 500 and 900 MHz FT NMR spectrometers. The chemical shifts are expressed in parts per million ppm relative to tetramethylsilane TMS as the internal standard. Splitting patterns are as follows s single d doublet br broad m multiplet. All mass spectra were recorded with Applied Biosystems Voyager DE PRO MALDI TOF spectrometer and Finnigan LCQ for APCI and routine ESI MS. Reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography HPLC analyses were performed on a Nova Pak C60 4 m 3.9 300 mm column using a gradient of 50 CHCN HO 1 minute 50 to 90 CHCN 70 minutes and 90 to 50 CHCN 20 minutes with a flow of 1 ml per minute and with detection at 254 nanometers nm . The preparative HPLC were performed on a Nova Pak C6 m 19 300 mm column using a gradient of 65 CHCN HO 1 minute 65 to 90 CHCN 90 minutes and 90 to 65 CHCN 30 minutes with a flow of 3 ml per minute and with detection at 254 nm. For column chromatography Fischer silica gel 100 200 mesh was used. All solvents used were either HPLC grade Fisher Scientific or analytical grade Aldrich . dl Mandelic acid was purchased from Aldrich. All other chemicals were purchased from either Aldrich or Fisher Scientific.

A mandelic acid condensation polymer of formula 3a was prepared by direct reaction of dl mandelic acid with concentrated sulfuric acid at low temperature. dl Mandelic acid 30.4 g 200 mmol was added in one lot to a round bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer containing conc. HSO 256 g 4000 mmol 139 ml under vigorous stirring at 35 C. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 35 C. for 1 hour and then stirred at ambient temperature for an additional 8 hours. Subsequently this reaction mixture was poured into a conical flask containing 3040 ml of ice water and stirred for 1 hour. The solid separated out and was filtered through suction washed with water 3 50 ml and dried under reduced pressure in vacuum desiccators for 12 hours to give 3a as an off white solid 28.25 g 100 yield mp 205 206 C. H NMR DMSO d 7.35 7.02 m ArH 5.23 br s CHOH 5.15 4.75 m CHCOH 3.41 br s OH . C NMR DMSO d 174.09 140.23 139.72 138.85 138.25 129.38 127.96 56.76.

The structure of formula 3a was further confirmed by electrospray ionization ESI mass spectrometry MS . Several samples prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 were evaluated. As shown in the ESI spectrum indicates that the product from Example 1 is a composition of polymers with repeating units of 134 atomic mass units amu which corresponds to the molecular weight of mandelic acid minus water.

A second synthesis of the polymer of formula 3a was achieved conducting the polymerization at 30 C. 5 Degrees . Concentrated sulfuric acid was cooled to 30 C. The temperature was maintained at 30 C. 5 Degrees as mandelic acid was added as aliquots over a period of time approximately 30 minutes used for 20 gram reaction to the cooled and stirred mixture. Ratio of mandelic acid concentrated sulfuric acid was 20 grams 100 ml . The reaction mixture was then stirred and maintained at 30 C. for one hour followed by allowing the temperature to slowly rise to room temperature and stirred for an additional 12 hours. The reaction mixture was then poured over into an ice and DI water mixture 500 grams 200 ml . A light pink precipitate formed and was subsequently vacuum filtered washed with water and then resuspended in 200 ml of DI water. The precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration and washed by repeated suspension in DI water 200 ml followed by vacuum filtration until the final pH of the wash water was between 4 and 5. The final bulk solid was air dried overnight. The yield of the reaction provided approximately 18 grams of polymer product of formula 3a for every 20 grams of mandelic acid starting material.

An ester derivative of formula 5a was prepared from the polymer of formula 3a . To a clear solution of the polymer formula 3a 5.36 g 40 mmol in methanol 200 ml was added 1.0 ml of conc. sulfuric acid and the resulting reaction mixture was heated at reflux temperature under stirring while removing water using a Dean Stark trap for 8 hours. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and dichloromethane 200 ml was added to the residue. The reaction mixture was washed with 10 NaHCOsolution 3 30 ml . The aqueous phase was re extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with brine 2 25 ml dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in a rotary evaporator to give the polymer of formula 5a as a white solid 5.78 g 97.6 yield mp 125 126 C. H NMR CDCl 7.26 6.96 m ArH 5.30 s CHOH 5.05 4.80 m CHCOCH 3.76 3.46 m OCH .

The structure of formula 5a and thus that of formula 3a was further confirmed by reverse phase HPLC and LCQ APCI analyses. Reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography HPLC analysis of the product according to Example 4 using a Nova Pak C60 4 m 3.9 300 mm column provided the HPLC chromatogram shown in .

To confirm the structure of the different peaks obtained from the reverse phase HPLC the product according to Example 4 was analyzed with liquid chromatography quadrupole atmospheric pressure chemical ionization LCQ APCI . shows that the individual peaks each represent a polymer with repeating units of 148 atomic mass units. In particular the parent molecular ion for each fraction from top to bottom in has a mass to charge ratio m z of 462.5 610.5 758.5 905.5 1054 1055 1202 1203 1350 1351 1498 1499 1646 1647 1794 1795 and 1942 1943 respectively. These peaks correspond to respectively compounds of formula 5a wherein n 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and 11. shows the APCI MS of the pure compound of formula 5a wherein n 3. The individual polymers of the product according to Example 4 were separated via preparative phase HPLC using a Nova Pak C6 m 19 300 mm column as shown by the overlay of HPLC chromatograms in .

The ester derivative of formula 5a was successfully hydrolyzed back to the polymer of formula 3a . To a stirred suspension of the polymer of formula 5a 444 mg 3 mmol in water 10 ml a solution of NaOH 144 mg 3.6 mmol in water 10 ml was added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hours. By this time the compound was dissolved in water and a clear solution was obtained. To this solution conc. HCl 1.0 ml was added and stirred for 30 min. Solid separated out and was filtered through suction washed with water and dried under reduced pressure in a vacuum desiccator over CaClto give the polymer of formula 3a as an off white solid 350 mg 87.1 yield mp 203 204 C. The resulting product was subjected to ESI MS analysis confirming a polymeric composition of compounds with repeating units of 134 atomic mass units.

A sodium salt form of the polymer of formula 3a was prepared having the formula 7a . A clear solution of NaOH 9.24 g 231 mmol in water 10 ml and ethanol 225 ml was added to a solution of the polymer of formula 3a 28.14 g 210 mmol in ethanol 350 ml drop wise under stirring at ambient temperature. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 1 hour. The solid separated out and was filtered through suction washed with ethanol 2 40 ml and dried under reduced pressure in vacuum desiccators over PO CaClto give the polymer of formula 7a as an off white solid 30.40 g 92.2 yield mp 320 321 C. d .

A second synthesis of the sodium salt of formula 7a was achieved. The free acid form of formula 3a was dissolved in absolute ethanol approx. 20 grams in 300 ml and filtered. A saturated solution of sodium hydroxide in water absolute ethanol was then added drop wise with vigorous stirring until the pH was 10 11. The fine powder precipitate was vacuum filtered quickly and repeatedly washed with absolute ethanol until the pH of the wash was neutral. The solid collected was immediately transferred into a vacuum desiccator for drying over night 24 hours under vacuum over HSO resulting in a very fine white powder. The overall yield was approximately 20.5 grams of the salt of formula 7a from about 18 grams of starting polymer of formula 3a .

The structure of formula 7a and thus that of formula 3a was further confirmed by acid equivalent titration. An approximately 0.1 N solution of hydrochloric acid HCl was prepared by a known method and actual HCl concentration was determined by titrating a sample of sodium carbonate dissolved in water using thymol blue indicator the concentration of HCl determined to be 0.103 N. The volume of titrant used was measured with a calibrated 10.0 milliliter ml buret. The sodium salt according to formula 7a was dissolved in 10 ml of water and the solution was titrated with the 0.103 N HCl until a pink color persisted. Approximately 0.94 0.01 ml of 0.103 N HCl was required to achieve the end point for three samples which indicated that there was one free carboxylate per 134 units of mass. These results are consistent with the structure of formula 7a . Furthermore these results eliminate the possibility that the product is a polyester compound resulting from acid catalyzed polyester formation from reaction of mandelic acid hydroxy functional groups with mandelic acid carboxylic acid functional groups.

To confirm the structure and stereochemical complexity of the compounds of the invention the different peaks obtained from the reverse phase HPLC according to Example 5 were analyzed with ultra high field FT NMR analysis. shows the portion of a gradient selected heteronuclear single quantum correlation experiment gsHSQC of the compound of formula 5a where n 4. Individual peaks each represent a correlation between a proton and carbon at particular chemical shift. Peak 1 5.10 56.00 ppm represents H C OH correlation while peak 2 5.43 52.72 ppm represents H C COCH. Resolving power of the 900 MHz spectrometer in both dimensions as well as its sensitivity allowed for unequivocal assignment of CHOH peak peak 1 in the presence of other signals in the proton spectrum shown as projection at the top of the spectrum in . Resolution in the horizontal carbon dimension indicates splitting pattern of the peak 2 in approximately 1 2 1 ratio characteristic of all stereoisomeric forms.

The structure of formula 3a was further confirmed and the polymer chain distribution in the bulk polymer composition was determined by matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight MALDI TOF mass spectrum analysis. MALDI TOF analysis of the product according to Example 3 using an Applied Biosystems stainless steel sample plate and 3 indoleacrylic acid IAA or 2 5 dihydrobenzoic acid 2 5 DHB as matrices provided the mass spectrum shown in portion of the spectrum between 5200 Da and 8000 Da is shown in the inset . This MALDI TOF result confirmed that product according to Example 3 is a composition of polymers of formula 3a generally having from about 4 to about 60 repeating units. shows that the individual peaks each represent a polymer with repeating units of 134 atomic mass units. In particular the parent molecular ion for each fraction from top to bottom in has a mass to charge ratio m z between 558 and 7700 Da. Representative peaks shown in include but are not limited to 558.93 692.59 826.29 960.06 1093.76 1227.45 1361.08 1494.73 1628.39 1761.96 1895.59 2162.87 2430.14 2696.54 2964.38 3364.14 3765.36 4165.97 4565.15 4963.63 5367.30 and within the inset 5495.09 5637.66 5773.34 5903.60 6038.95 6170.94 6308.06 6433.03 6580.91 6701.36 6838.62 6960.89 7092.04 7219.46 and 7362.96.

Compounds and compositions of the invention are active against HIV HSV and in vitro. The compounds of the present invention prevent HIV transmission by dendritic cells which are important target cells for primary HIV infection. The compounds and compositions retain anti viral activity HIV and HSV 2 in the presence of cervical secretions and across a wide pH range in vitro. The compounds and compositions inhibit hyaluronidase and acrosin induce sperm acrosomal loss and are contraceptive in a rabbit model.

Microbicides. PPCM is synthesized by researchers at the Program for the Topical Prevention and Conception of Disease TOPCAD at University of Illinois Chicago Chicago Ill. . 0.4 and 4 PPCM gels and the matched placebo gel is provided by Yaso Biotechnologies Inc. Coppell Tex. . PMPA tenofovir is obtained from Gilead Sciences Inc. Foster City Calif. and UC 781 is obtained from Biosyn Inc. Philadelphia Pa. .

Cell and virus cultures. Cells and viruses are obtained from the AIDS reagent project National Institute for Biological Standards and Control Potters Bar United Kingdom unless stated otherwise. ME 180 cells a cervical epithelial cell line obtained from American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. and TZM bl cells a HeLa cell line stably expressing CD4 and CCR5 and used for quantitative analysis of HIV 1 with luciferase as a reporter are cultured in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum 2 mM L glutamine 100 U ml penicillin and 100 g ml streptomycin complete DMEM . Vero cells and the T cell lines PM 1 and H9 are cultured in RPMI 1640 supplemented like DMEM complete RPMI . Jurkat Tat CCR5 cells a T cell line which has been transfected with the HIV 1 tat gene and the CCR5 coreceptor rendering it permissive to X4 and R5 viruses are provided by Quentin Sattentau Sir William Dunn School of Pathology University of Oxford Oxford United Kingdom and cultured in complete RPMI supplemented with 250 g ml hygromycin B for Tat selection and 500 g ml Geneticin for CCR5 selection . Raji cells stably expressing DC SIGN Raji DCSIGN cells and negative control cells are provided by V. N. Kewal Ramani National Cancer Institute Frederick Md. and are cultured in complete RPMI supplemented with 500 g ml geneticin for the transfected cells . All cells are passaged every 3 to 4 days and cultured in a humidified incubator containing 5 CO. The primary HIV 1 isolates belonging to clades B and C a gift from John P. Moore Weill Medical College Cornell University New York N.Y. . The laboratory adapted HIV 1 strains HIV 1RF X4 utilizing strain and HIV 1BaL R5 utilizing strain are grown in PM 1 cells and stored at 180 C. after filtration through 0.2  m filters Millipore Mass. .

Anti HSV Murine Model. Five days prior to infection mice are treated with 2 mg ml Depo Provera. On day 0 the mice are treated with 30 l of 0.4 or 4 PPCM gel or a matched placebo gel 15 min prior to challenge with 20 l of HSV 2 G 1 10PFU diluted in PBS or in pooled human seminal plasma obtained from males at low risk for STI. Mice are monitored for signs of disease for 14 days postinfection on a 0 to 4 point scale 0 no apparent infection 1 slight redness of the vagina 2 moderate redness and swelling of the vagina and surrounding tissue 3 severe redness swelling and hair loss of the genital and surrounding tissues and 4 genital ulceration with severe redness swelling and hair loss of the genital and surrounding tissues. Mice reaching stage 4 genital disease or exhibiting neurologic signs hind limb paralysis are euthanized.

Luciferase assay for detection of HIV 1 infection. TZM bl cells are exposed to 103 TCID50 of HIV 1 in the presence of various concentrations of PPCM alone or in combination with the reverse transcriptase RT inhibitors UC 781 and PMPA. Virus and drugs are left in culture for 48 h at 37 C. and then removed by washing once with 200 l PBS. Following cell lysis with luciferase cell culture lysis reagent Promega Southampton United Kingdom luciferase activity in lysates is determined.

Anti HIV activity of PPCM in cell models. Cell free HIV 1 BaL or RF is captured to 96 well plates coated with a monoclonal antibody against human HLA DR. Unbound virus is removed by washing and immobilized virus is treated with 100 l of serial dilutions of PPCM for 1 h at 37 C. To assess direct virucidal activity the compound is removed and the plates are washed four times with 200 l PBS before addition of target cells 4 10Jurkat Tat CCR5 cells per well . Alternatively cells are added without removal of compound or to assess cell protection Jurkat Tat CCR5 cells 4 10cells well are exposed to the same concentrations of compound in U bottom 96 well plates and washed in the same way before transfer to plates with immobilized virus. Viral replication is assessed by measuring RT levels in culture supernatants at 7 days postinfection.

To evaluate the activity of PPCM against cell associated HIV 1 PM 1 or H9 cells chronically infected with B clade isolate HIV 1RF HIV 1IIIB or HIV 1BaL or the clade C clinical isolate Za003 97 are treated with 200 g ml mitomycin C in complete medium for 1 h at 37 C. Infected cells are washed twice with 50 ml PBS added to 96 well plates 500 cells well and incubated with various concentrations of PPCM for 1 h before addition of 4 10Jurkat Tat CCR5 cells per well. Cocultures are incubated at 37 C. for 5 days and culture supernatants collected and stored at 20 C. prior to measurement of RT activity as before.

PPCM inhibition of HIV 1 infection in cell culture. PPCM can prevent infection of TZM bl indicator cells by laboratory adapted and primary clade C and B HIV isolates. At a concentration of 100 g ml a concentration that should be readily found in genital tract secretions following application of either a 0.4 or a 4 PPCM formulation PPCM can completely block infection by all isolates tested with no cytotoxicity at the dose concentration.

Combination studies. PPCM and RTIs are combined at 1 1 ratios in terms of 50 inhibitory concentrations IC50 and treated as a single drug that is used at a range of dilutions in the viral inhibition assay luciferase assay . To determine the ratios of compound that should be used in these studies IC50 values are determined following exposure of TZM bl cells to each viral isolate in the presence of single drugs for 48 h. The PPCM PMPA ratios are 1 13.213 and 1 0.015 for HIV 1RF and HIV 1BaL respectively whereas the PPCM UC 781 ratios are 1 0.055 and 1 0.015 for the X4 and R5 viruses respectively. In parallel single drugs are tested at the same concentrations.

PPCM can protect mice challenged vaginally with HSV 2. Female Balb c mice are pretreated with 30 ul of either 0.4 PPCM 4 PPCM or matched placebo gel and then 15 minutes later inoculated with 20 ul of 1 10 LD90 dose of HSV 2G diluted in either PBS or semen. Results showing survival are pooled from 4 independent experiments n 5 10 mice group experiment . 4 PPCM can significantly protect the mice when virus is delivered in both PBS and semen e.g. p

It is understood that the foregoing detailed description and accompanying examples are merely illustrative and are not to be taken as limitations upon the scope of the invention which is defined solely by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications including without limitation those relating to the chemical structures substituents derivatives intermediates syntheses compositions formulations or methods of use of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

