---

title: Latent electrostatic image developing carrier, process cartridge and image forming apparatus
abstract: A latent electrostatic image developing carrier including: core particles each having magnetism; and a coating layer covering each of the core particles, wherein the latent electrostatic image developing carrier has a shape factor SF-2 of 115 to 150 and has a bulk density of 1.8 g/cmto 2.4 g/cm, wherein the core particles have a shape factor SF-2 of 120 to 160 and have an arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of 0.5 μm to 1.0 μm, and wherein the coating layer contains a resin and a filler and an amount of the filler contained in the coating layer is 50 parts by mass to 500 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the resin contained in the coating layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08663892&OS=08663892&RS=08663892
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08663892
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120823
---
The present invention relates to a latent electrostatic image developing carrier a process cartridge and an image forming apparatus.

In recent years technologies of copiers and printers based on electrophotography have rapidly been changed from monochromatic modes to full color modes and the market of full color modes tends to expand. In color image formation by full color electrophotography a latent electrostatic image is formed on a latent electrostatic image bearing member. Next the latent electrostatic image is developed with charged three color toners of yellow magenta and cyan or with charged four color toners of yellow magenta cyan and black to thereby form toner images which are then transferred onto a recording medium followed by fixing.

In order to form a clear full color image through such image formation by full color electrophotography it is necessary to keep the amount of the toner on the latent electrostatic image bearing member depending on the latent electrostatic image. The fluctuation of the amount of the toner on the latent electrostatic image bearing member results in fluctuation in image density and color tone on a recording medium. The fluctuation of the amount of the toner on the latent electrostatic image bearing member is due to for example fluctuation in charge amount of toner. In particular in the hybrid developing method there have been reported that the difference in amount of a toner from place to place on a toner bearing member causes a difference in image density on the next development which is so called hysteresis ghost phenomenon see for example Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A No. 2007 25693 .

In one effective method for overcoming hysteresis in the hybrid developing method the toner remaining on the toner bearing member after development of the latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member is removed and then an unused toner is supplied to the surface of the toner bearing member to thereby compensate the above described difference in amount of the toner on the toner bearing member. For example there has been proposed a method of overcoming hysteresis by scraping off the remaining toner from the toner bearing member with a scraper or a toner recovering roller after development and before supply of an unused toner see for example Japanese Patent JP B No. 3356948 and JP A Nos. 2005 157002 and 11 231652 . Also there has been proposed a method of overcoming hysteresis by recovering the remaining toner from the toner bearing member with a magnetic roller utilizing the difference in electrical potential to thereby stabilize the amount of the toner on the toner bearing member see for example JP A No. 07 072733 . Furthermore there has been proposed a method of overcoming hysteresis by providing a wide half width region between a developer bearing member and a toner bearing member in which region the half value of the peak of the magnetic flux density of a magnetic roller is observed to thereby stabilize recovery and supply of the toner with respect to the developer bearing member see for example JP A No. 07 128983 . Moreover there has been proposed a method of overcoming hysteresis by keeping constant the amount of the toner on the toner bearing member where non spherical carrier particles are used as a carrier of a two component developer. Specifically charges are injected into the carrier particles at the tips of the magnetic brushes the distance between the developer bearing member and the toner bearing member is made small the amount of the toner to be supplied at one time to the toner bearing member is increased and the toner is supplied onto the toner bearing member in such an amount that the amount of the toner thereon is saturated see for example JP A No. 07 092813 .

The above described hysteresis is said to be a specific problem to the hybrid developing method. However when a developer is used for a long period of time in the two component developing method there has been reported that the developing capability of the developer degrades to cause hysteresis where the image density decreases see for example JP A No. 11 065247 .

Hysteresis occurring in the two component developing method results from inappropriate removal of a two component developer. The removal of the developer is performed at a removal region having a magnetic force of almost 0 which is formed by an odd number of magnets provided in the developing sleeve and magnets of the same polarity provided below the rotation shaft of the developing sleeve. In the removal region the developer after development is allowed to freely fall due to gravitational force. However counter charges are generated on the carrier when the toner is consumed for forming the previous image to thereby form mirror image force between the carrier and the developer bearing member resulting that the developer cannot normally be removed. Thus the developer in which the concentration of the toner has been lowered as a result of consumption of the toner is transferred again to the developing region to reduce the developing capability. In other words the density of the image formed at the first rotation of the sleeve is normal while the density of the images formed at the second and subsequent rotations is low.

Furthermore one proposed method of overcoming hysteresis in the two component developing method is a method of removing the developer after development using magnetic force generated from pumping rollers each having a magnet therein which are arranged near the removal region on the developing sleeve see for example JP A No. 11 065247 . The developer that has been removed is pumped up with another pumping roller and then transferred to a developer stirring chamber having a screw where the concentration of the toner is adjusted again and the toner is charged.

However even with the above described proposal the developer is affected by hysteresis after continuously used for a long period of time. Thus problematically it is not possible to stably supply a necessary amount of toner to a latent electrostatic image bearing member. In addition the above proposal cannot reduce an increase in resistance of a carrier caused by toner spent which is a specific problem in the two component developing method. Therefore keen demand has arisen for a measure to solve such problems at the same time.

The present invention has been made under such circumstances and aims to solve the above existing problems and achieve the following objects. Specifically the present invention aims to provide a latent electrostatic image developing carrier and a process cartridge and an image forming apparatus each using the latent electrostatic image developing carrier where the latent electrostatic image developing carrier even when used continuously for a long period of time can stably supply a necessary amount of toner to a latent electrostatic image bearing member without being affected by hysteresis and can prevent an increase in resistance due to deposition of spent toner thereon.

Hysteresis to be solved by the present invention differs from the above hysteresis in a mechanism where it occurs.

Although it has not been clearly elucidated in detail the mechanism where ghost phenomenon in the present invention occurs is thought to be as follows. Specifically toner particles are attached onto the developer bearing member depending on the hysteresis of the previous image and as a result the amount of the toner used for developing the next image varies with the potential of the toner particles attached on the developer bearing member. In other words the ghost phenomenon is thought to be caused by change in amount of toner used for developing the next image due to the hysteresis of the previous image.

In more detail a potential with which toner particles are moved from the latent electrostatic image bearing member to the developing sleeve is formed in the non image portion opposite to a potential in the image portion and as a result the toner is directly deposited onto the developer bearing member toner deposition occurs on the developer bearing member . When the image portion is developed on the next development in this state where the toner is deposited on the developer bearing member the developing potential is increased by the potential of the toner on the developer bearing member to increase the amount of toner used for the development since the toner directly deposited on the developer bearing member is charged.

Also the toner directly deposited on the developer bearing member is consumed during development. Thus the amount thereof is not constant and varies with the hysteresis of the previous image.

That is when there are non image portions and spaces between paper sheets immediately before image formation the above described developing potential is increased in developing the subsequent image portion increasing the image density of the subsequent images. When the previous image is an image having an image occupation rate the toner directly deposited onto the developer bearing member is consumed for developing the previous image and the above described developing potential is increased to less extent not increasing the image density of the subsequent images.

As described above the hysteresis to be solved by the present invention is a phenomenon where the density of the next image changes due to change in amount of toner deposited on the developer bearing member depending on the previous image.

The present inventors conducted extensive studies to solve the above problems and found that a latent electrostatic image developing carrier having the constitution of the present invention even when used continuously for a long period of time can stably supply a necessary amount of toner to a latent electrostatic image bearing member without being affected by hysteresis and can prevent an increase in resistance due to deposition of spent toner thereon. The present invention has been accomplished on the basis of the finding.

The present invention is based on the finding obtained by the present inventors. Means for solving the above existing problems are as follows. Specifically a latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention includes core particles each having magnetism and a coating layer covering each of the core particles wherein the latent electrostatic image developing carrier has a shape factor SF 2 of 115 to 150 and has a bulk density of 1.8 g cmto 2.4 g cm wherein the core particles have a shape factor SF 2 of 120 to 160 and have an arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of 0.5 m to 1.0 m and wherein the coating layer contains a resin and a filler and an amount of the filler contained in the coating layer is 50 parts by mass to 500 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the resin contained in the coating layer.

The present invention can provide a latent electrostatic image developing carrier and a process cartridge and an image forming apparatus each using the latent electrostatic image developing carrier where the latent electrostatic image developing carrier even when used continuously for a long period of time can stably supply a necessary amount of toner to a latent electrostatic image bearing member without being affected by hysteresis and can prevent an increase in resistance due to deposition of spent toner thereon.

A latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention includes core particles and a coating layer covering each of the core particles and if necessary further includes other ingredients.

The core particles are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose so long as they are core particles each having magnetism. Examples thereof include ferromagnetic metals such as iron and cobalt iron oxides such as magnetite hematite and ferrite and resin particles formed by dispersing in a resin a magnetic material such as alloys and compounds. Among them Mn ferrites Mn Mg ferrites and Mn Mg Sr ferrites are preferred since they are environmentally friendly.

The shape factor SF 1 of the core particles is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose.

The shape factor SF 1 of the core particles was measured as follows. Specifically the core particles were observed at a magnification of 300 under a scanning electron microscope e.g. FE SEM S 800 product of Hitachi Ltd. . Then 100 core particles on the obtained image were randomly sampled and the obtained image information was analyzed with an image analyzer e.g. Luzex AP product of NIRECO CORPORATION followed by calculation using the following equation 1 SF 1 4 100 1 

in the above equation 1 L denotes an absolute maximum length a length of the circumcircle of each core particle and A denotes a projected area of each core particle.

The shape factor SF 2 of the core particles is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose so long as it is 120 to 160. When the shape factor SF 2 is less than 120 it becomes easy for convex portions of the core particles to be covered potentially making it difficult to form local low resistance regions. When the shape factor SF 2 is more than 160 the amount of voids of the core particles increases to decrease the strength of the core particles. In addition when the formed carrier is used in a developing device for a long time the core particles are exposed to a large extent which leads to a great change in resistance between before and after use. As a result the amount of the toner on the latent electrostatic image bearing member and the way of forming a toner image are changed to potentially change the image density.

The shape factor SF 2 of the core particles was measured as follows. Specifically the core particles were observed at a magnification of 300 under a scanning electron microscope e.g. FE SEM S 800 product of Hitachi Ltd. . Then 100 core particles on the obtained image were randomly sampled and the obtained image information was analyzed with an image analyzer e.g. Luzex AP product of NIRECO CORPORATION followed by calculation using the following equation 2 SF 2 1 4 100 2 

in the above equation 2 P denotes a perimeter of each core particle and A denotes a projected area of each core particle.

The arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of the core particles defines the surface roughness of the core particles.

Defining the arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of the core particles has the meaning that deformed core particles having a shape factor SF 2 of 120 to 160 but greatly deviating the spherical shape cause considerable carrier deposition and thus cannot be used in the present invention.

The arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of the core particles is not particularly limited so long as it is 0.5 m to 1.0 m and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 0.6 m to 0.9 m.

The arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of the core particles was measured using an optical microscope e.g. OPTELICS C130 product of LASERTEC CORPORATION as follows. Specifically an image was taken in at a resolution of 0.20 m with the objective lens adjusted to a magnification of 50. Then the observation area was defined to be 10 m 10 m around the apex of each core particle and the surface roughnesses Ras of 100 core particles were averaged.

The grain size of the core particles is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 2 m to 8 m.

The BET specific surface area of the core particles is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 0.09 m g to 0.40 m g.

The weight average particle diameter Dw of the core particles refers to a particle diameter at an integrated value of 50 in a particle size distribution of the core particles measured by the laser diffraction scattering method. The weight average particle diameter Dw of the core particles is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 10 m to 80 m.

The weight average particle diameter Dw of the core particles was measured as follows. Specifically the particle size distribution on the number basis the relationship between number frequency and particle diameter was measured using a MICROTRACK particle distribution analyzer HRA9320 X100 product of Honewell Co. under the following conditions and the Dw was calculated using the following equation 3 . Notably the number of channels was that dividing into unit ranges the particle diameter range in the particle size distribution chart and the representative particle diameter adopted was the lowest value of the particle diameters stored in each channel. 1 3 

in the above equation 3 D denotes a representative particle diameter m of core particles present in each channel and n denotes the total number of core particles present in each channel.

The coating layer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose so long as it is contains 50 parts by mass to 500 parts by mass of the filler per 100 parts by mass of the resin. Preferably the coating layer contains 100 parts by mass to 300 parts by mass of the filler per 100 parts by mass of the resin. When the amount of the filler is less than 50 parts by mass the coating layer may be abraded. When it is more than 500 parts by mass the amount of the resin exposed to the carrier surface becomes smaller resulting in that the toner may be easier to cause spent on the carrier surface. When the amount of the filler falls within the above preferred range it is advantageous in that the coating layer is hardly abraded even after the formed carrier has been used in a developing device for a long period of time.

When the thickness of the coating layer is too small the surfaces of the core particles are easily exposed due to stirring in a developing device potentially changing in resistance greatly. When it is too large the convex portions of the core particles are not exposed to make it difficult to form local low resistance regions. The thickness of the coating layer can be controlled by adjusting the amount of the resin contained in the core particles. The amount of the resin contained in the core particles is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. It is preferably 0.5 by mass to 3.0 by mass since the thickness of the formed coating layer can form local low resistance regions.

The resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include acrylic resins amino resins polyvinyl resins polystyrene resins halogenated olefin resins polyesters polycarbonates polyethylenes polyvinyl fluorides polyvinylidene fluorides polytrifluoroethylenes polyhexafluoropropylenes copolymers of vinylidene fluorides and vinyl fluorides fluoroterpolymers such as terpolymers of tetrafluoroethylene vinylidene fluoride non fluoride monomer and silicone resins. These may be used alone or in combination. Among them silicone resins are preferred.

The resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably a resin containing a cured product of a mixture of a silane coupling agent and a silicone resin.

The silicone resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. It is preferably a resin containing a crosslinked product formed by hydrolyzing a copolymer containing at least unit A represented by the following General Formula A and unit B represented by the following General Formula B to form a silanol group followed by condensation 

in General Formula A Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms m is an integer of 1 to 8 and X is a molar ratio of the unit A in the copolymer and is 10 mol to 90 mol 

in General Formula B Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms Rrepresents an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms or an alkoxy group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms m is an integer of 1 to 8 and Y is a molar ratio of the unit B in the copolymer and is 10 mol to 90 mol .

The silane coupling agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include 2 aminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane 2 aminoethyl aminopropylmethyldimethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane N N vinylbenzylaminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane hydrochloride glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane methyltrimethoxysilane methyltriethoxysilane vinyltriacetoxysilane chloropropyltrimethoxysilane hexamethyldisilazane anilinopropyltrimethoxysilane vinyltrimethoxysilane octadecyldimethyl 3 trimethoxysilyl propyl ammonium chloride chloropropylmethyldimethoxysilane methyltrichlorosilane dimethyldichlorosilane trimethylchlorosilane allyltriethoxysilane 3 aminopropylmethyldiethoxysilane 3 aminopropyltrimethoxysilane dimethyldiethoxysilane 1 3 divinyltetramethyldisilazane and methacryloxyethyldimethyl 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl ammonium chloride. These may be used alone or in combination.

Examples of commercially available products of the silane coupling agent include AY43 059 SR6020 SZ6023 SH6020 SH6026 SZ6032 SZ6050 AY43 310M SZ6030 SH6040 AY43 026 AY43 031 sh6062 Z 6911 sz6300 sz6075 sz6079 sz6083 sz6070 sz6072 Z 6721 AY43 004 Z 6187 AY43 021 AY43 043 AY43 040 AY43 047 Z 6265 AY43 204M AY43 048 Z 6403 AY43 206M AY43 206E Z6341 AY43 210MC AY43 083 AY43 101 AY43 013 AY43 158E Z 6920 and Z 6940 these products are of Dow Corning Toray Co. Ltd. .

The amount of the silane coupling agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 0.1 by mass to 10 by mass relative to the amount of the resin. When the amount thereof is less than 0.1 by mass the adhesiveness between the core particles the filler and the resin is degraded and the coating layer may be delaminated during long term use. When it is more than 10 by mass toner filming may occur during long term use.

The filler is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include electroconductive fillers and non electroconductive fillers. These may be used alone or in combination. Among them both of an electroconductive filler and a non electroconductive filler are preferably incorporated into the coating layer.

The electroconductive filler refers to a filler having a powder specific resistance of 100 cm or less.

The non electroconductive filler refers to a filler having a powder specific resistance of more than 100 cm.

The powder specific resistance of the filler was measured using a powder resistance measuring system MCP PD51 product of DIAINSTRUMENTS CO. LTD. and a resistance meter the 4 terminal 4 probe method LORESTA GP product of Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd. under the following conditions sample amount 1.0 g interelectrode distance 3 mm sample radius 10.0 mm and load 20 kN.

The electroconductive filler is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include electroconductive fillers each containing a base of for example aluminum oxide titanium oxide zinc oxide barium sulfate silicon oxide or zirconium oxide and a layer of tin dioxide or indium oxide where the layer is formed on the base. Further examples include an electroconductive filler made of carbon black. Among them electroconductive fillers containing aluminum oxide titanium oxide or barium sulfate are preferred.

The non electroconductive filler is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include non electroconductive fillers made of aluminum oxide titanium oxide barium sulfate zinc oxide silicon dioxide or zirconium oxide. Among them non electroconductive fillers containing aluminum oxide titanium oxide or barium sulfate are preferred.

The number average particle diameter of the filler is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. It is preferably 50 nm to 800 nm more preferably 200 nm to 700 nm since the filler is easier to be exposed to the surface of the resin contained in the coating layer to thereby easily form partial low resistance regions where spent matter on the carrier surface is easily scraped off and the formed carrier is excellent in abrasion resistance. The number average particle diameter of the filler was measured as follows. The filler was observed at a magnification of 10 000 under a scanning electron microscope e.g. FE SEM S 800 product of Hitachi Ltd. . Then 100 fillers on the obtained image were randomly sampled and measured for particle diameter and the obtained particle diameters were averaged to obtain the number average particle diameter.

The other ingredients are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. The coating layer preferably contains a catalyst and may optionally contain a solvent and a curing agent.

The catalyst is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include titanium catalysts tin catalysts zirconium catalysts and aluminum catalysts. Specific examples include their acetyacetonato complexes their alkylacetoacetato complexes and their salicylaldehydato complexes. These may be used alone or in combination. Among them titanium catalysts are preferred and diisopropoxybis ethylacetoacetate titanium is more preferred since they considerably accelerate the condensation reaction of the silanol group and is hardly deactivated.

A method for producing the latent electrostatic image developing carrier is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. In a preferred method a fluidized bed coating apparatus is used to coat the surfaces of the core particles with a coating layer forming solution containing the resin and the filler to thereby produce the latent electrostatic image developing carrier. Notably the condensation of the resin contained in the coating layer may be allowed to proceed upon coating of the coating layer forming solution. Alternatively the condensation of the resin contained in the coating layer may be allowed to proceed after coating of the coating layer forming solution. The method for the condensation of the resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include a method where heat or light is applied to the coating layer forming solution to thereby condensate the resin.

The shape factor SF 2 of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier is not particularly limited so long as it is 115 to 150 and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. The shape factor SF 2 thereof is preferably 120 to 145 since the core particles are coated while still retaining a certain degree of irregularities.

The shape factor SF 2 of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier was measured as follows. Specifically the latent electrostatic image developing carrier was observed at a magnification of 300 under a scanning electron microscope e.g. FE SEM S 800 product of Hitachi Ltd. . Then 100 particles of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier on the obtained image were randomly sampled and the obtained image information was analyzed with an image analyzer e.g. Luzex AP product of NIRECO CORPORATION followed by calculation using the following equation 4 SF 2 1 4 100 4 

in the above equation 4 P denotes a perimeter of each carrier particle and A denotes a projected area of each carrier particle.

The bulk density of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier is particularly limited so long as it is 1.8 g cmto 2.4 g cm and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. When the bulk density thereof is less than 1.8 g cm there easily occurs so called carrier deposition where carrier particles are deposited on the latent electrostatic image bearing member. When it is more than 2.4 g cm the latent electrostatic image developing carrier has greater stress due to stirring in a developing device resulting in that the latent electrostatic image developing carrier may be greatly changed in resistance.

The bulk density of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier was measured by dropping the latent electrostatic image developing carrier from a height of 25 mm to a 25 cmcontainer through a funnel having an orifice diameter of 3 mm.

The BET specific surface area of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 2.5 m g to 6.0 m g.

The weight average particle diameter Dw of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier refers to a particle diameter at an integrated value of 50 in a particle size distribution of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier measured by the laser diffraction scattering method. The weight average particle diameter Dw of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 10 m to 80 m.

The weight average particle diameter Dw of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier was measured as follows. Specifically the particle size distribution on the number basis the relationship between number frequency and particle diameter was measured using a MICROTRACK particle distribution analyzer HRA9320 X100 product of Honewell Co. under the following conditions and the Dw was calculated using the following equation 5 . Notably the number of channels was that dividing into unit ranges the particle diameter range in the particle size distribution chart and the representative particle diameter adopted was the lowest value of the particle diameters stored in each channel. 1 5 

in the above equation 5 D denotes a representative particle diameter m of core particles present in each channel and n denotes the total number of core particles present in each channel.

The latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention even when used continuously for a long period of time can stably supply a necessary amount of toner to a latent electrostatic image bearing member without being affected by hysteresis and can prevent an increase in resistance due to deposition of spent toner thereon. Therefore the latent electrostatic image developing carrier can suitably be used as the below described developer.

A developer contains the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and a toner.

The toner contains a binder resin a charge controlling agent and a releasing agent and if necessary further contains other ingredients.

The binder resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include homopolymers of styrene and substituted products thereof e.g. polystyrenes and polyvinyltoluenes styrene binder resins such as styrene copolymers e.g. styrene p chlorostyrene copolymers styrene propylene copolymers styrene vinyltoluene copolymers styrene methyl acrylate copolymers styrene ethyl acrylate copolymers styrene butyl acrylate copolymers styrene methyl methacrylate copolymers styrene ethyl methacrylate copolymers styrene butyl methacrylate copolymers styrene methyl chloromethacrylate copolymers styrene acrylonitrile copolymers styrene vinyl methyl ether copolymers styrene vinyl methyl ketone copolymers styrene butadiene copolymers styrene isoprene copolymers styrene maleic acid copolymers and styrene maleic acid ester copolymers acrylic binder resins such as polymethyl methacrylates and polybutyl methacrylates polyvinyl chloride resins polyvinyl acetate resins polyethylene resins polypropylene resins polyester resins polyurethane resins epoxy resins polyvinyl butyral resins polyacrylic acid resins rosin modified rosin terpene resins phenol resins aliphatic or alicyclic hydrocarbon resins aromatic petroleum resins chlorinated paraffins and paraffin waxes. These may be used alone or in combination. Among them polyester resins are preferred since they can reduce the melt viscosity of the formed toner while securing stability thereof during storage.

The polyester resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include resins obtained through polycondensation reaction between an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component. The polyester resin may be used in combination with a crystalline polyester resin.

The alcohol component is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include diols such as polyethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol 1 2 propylene glycol 1 3 propylene glycol 1 4 propylene glycol neopentyl glycol and 1 4 butenediol 1 4 bis hydroxymethyl cyclohexane bisphenol A hydrogenated bisphenol A and etherated bisphenols e.g. polyoxyethylenated bisphenol A and polyoxypropylenated bisphenol A dihydric alcohol monomers which are the above listed components each further having as a substituent a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon group having 3 to 22 carbon atoms and other dihydric alcohol monomers and tri or higher hydric alcohol monomers such as sorbitol 1 2 3 6 hexanetetrol 1 4 sorbitan pentaerythritol dipentaerythritol tripentaerythritol sucrose 1 2 4 butanetriol 1 2 5 pentanetriol glycerol 2 methylpropanetriol 2 methyl 1 2 4 butanetriol trimethylolethane trimethylolpropane and 1 3 5 trihydroxymethylbenzene.

The carboxylic acid component is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include monocarboxylic acids such as palmitic acid stearic acid and oleic acid dicarboxylic acids such as maleic acid fumaric acid mesaconic acid citraconic acid terephthalic acid cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid succinic acid adipic acid sebacic acid and malonic acid divalent organic acid monomers which are the above listed dicarboxylic acids each further having as a substituent a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon group having 3 to 22 carbon atoms anhydrides of these acids dimer acids formed between lower alkyl esters and linoleic acid and tri or higher valent polycarboxylic acid monomers such as 1 2 4 benzenetricarboxylic acid 1 2 5 benzenetricarboxylic acid 2 5 7 naphthalenetricarboxylic acid 1 2 4 naphthalenetricarboxylic acid 1 2 4 butanetricarboxylic acid 1 2 5 hexanetricarboxylic acid 1 3 dicarboxyl 2 methyl 2 methylenecarboxypropane tetra methylenecarboxyl methane 1 2 7 8 octanetetracarboxylic acid ENPOL trimer acid and anhydrides of these acids.

The crystalline polyester resin is a resin added for improving fixation of the toner at low temperatures and glossiness of the images at low temperatures. The crystalline polyester resin is also a resin which undergoes crystal transition at a glass transition temperature drastically decreases in melt viscosity from the solid state and exhibits fixing functions on a recording medium such as paper.

The crystalline polyester resin is expressed by a crystallinity index which is defined as a ratio of the softening point to the highest endothermic peak temperature measured by a differential scanning calorimeter DSC i.e. the softening point the highest endothermic peak temperature. The crystallinity index of the crystalline polyester resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 0.6 to 1.5 more preferably 0.8 to 1.2.

The amount of the crystalline polyester resin is preferably 1 part by mass to 35 parts by mass more preferably 1 part by mass to 25 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the polyester resin. When the amount of the crystalline polyester resin is more than 35 parts by mass filming is easier to occur on the surface of an image bearing member and the storage stability may be degraded.

The charge controlling agent is used for sufficiently controlling frictional chargeability of the toner.

The charge controlling agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include metal complex salts of monoazo dyes nitrohumic acid and salts thereof metal salts of salicylic acid and derivatives thereof naphthoic acid salts metal e.g. Co Cr or Fe complex amino compounds of dicarboxylic acids quaternary ammonium compounds and organic dyes. These may be used alone or in combination. Among them when the toner is a color toner other than black toner preferred is a white or transparent charge controlling agent such as a white metal salt of a salicylic acid derivative.

The releasing agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include low molecular weight polypropylenes low molecular weight polyethylenes carnauba waxes microcrystalline waxes jojoba wax rice wax and montanoic acid wax. These may be used alone or in combination.

The other ingredients are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include an additive a magnetic material and a colorant.

The additive is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include a polishing agent a lubricating agent a flowability imparting agent and a caking preventing agent. Specific examples include organic fine resin particles such as hydrophobized silicon carbide fine metal particles such as zinc stearate cerium oxide hydrophobic silica and hydrophobic titanium dioxide metal soap and fluorine resins. These may be used alone or in combination. Among them hydrophobic silica is preferred since it can impart sufficient flowability to the toner.

The magnetic material is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include ferromagnetic materials such as iron and cobalt and magnetic materials such as magnetite hematite Li ferrite Mn Zn ferrite Cu Zn ferrite Ni Zn ferrite and Ba ferrite.

The colorant is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include iron black ultramarine carbon black Lamp black Hansa yellow G rhodamine 6G lake quinacridone benzidine yellow chrome yellow rose bengal Calco Oil Blue aniline blue phthalocyanine blue monoazo pigments triarylmethane dye nigrosine dye disazo dye and dyeing pigments. These may be used alone or in combination.

A method for producing the toner is for example a method where the charge controlling agent the releasing agent and the other ingredients are incorporated into the binder resin and the resultant mixture is treated by for example a conventionally known polymerization method or granulation method to thereby produce deformed or spherical toner particles.

The toner produced by the above toner production method may be a magnetic or non magnetic toner or a color toner or a transparent toner.

The weight average particle diameter Dw of the toner refers to a particle diameter at an integrated value of 50 in a particle size distribution of the toner measured by the laser diffraction scattering method. The weight average particle diameter Dw of the toner is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably 3.0 m to 9.0 m more preferably 3.0 m to 6.0 m.

The weight average particle diameter Dw of the toner was measured with COULTER MULTISIZER III product of BECKMAN COULTER Co. .

The method for producing the developer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Examples thereof include a method where the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier and the above described toner are mixed together and stirred with a turbular mixer to thereby produce the developer.

A developer housing container of the present invention includes a container and a developer housed in the container wherein the developer contains the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and the above described toner.

The above developer housing container can be easily stored and transported and is excellent in handleability. It can suitably be used for the supply of a developer when detachably mounted to the below described process cartridge.

The container of the developer housing container is not particularly limited and may use a conventionally known container depending on the intended purpose. For example the container has a container main body and a cap.

The size shape structure and material of the container main body are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose. Regarding the size thereof it is preferred that high dimensional accuracy is obtained. The shape thereof is preferably a hollow cylindrical shape. The structure thereof is preferably a structure whose inner surface has spirally arranged concavo convex portions some or all of which can accordion and in which the developer accommodated can be transferred to an outlet port through rotation. The material is preferably a polyester resin a polyethylene resin a polypropylene resin a polystyrene resin a polyvinyl chloride resin a polyacrylic acid resin a polycarbonate resin an ABS resin and a polyacetal resin.

The size shape structure and material of the cap are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose.

A replenishing developer contains the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and the above described toner. The replenishing developer can be applied to an image forming apparatus which performs image formation while discharging excess developer from the developing device. The developing device using the replenishing developer can attain steady image quality for a very long period of time. Specifically in the image forming apparatus using the above replenishing developer the degraded carrier in the developing device is exchanged to unused carrier in the replenishing developer. As a result it is possible to keep the charge amount stable for a long period of time leading to stable image formation. This method is particularly advantageous in printing an image having a large image occupation area. The degradation during printing of the image having a large image occupation area is caused due to degradation of the carrier which is mainly reduction in charging performance of the carrier resulting from toner spent on the carrier. However with this method the degraded carrier is exchanged more frequently in printing an image having a large image occupation area since the amount of the carrier replenished becomes large in this case.

The replenishing developer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose so long as it contains the above toner in an amount of 2 parts by mass to 50 parts by mass per 1 part by mass of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier. The replenishing developer preferably contains the above toner in an amount of 5 parts by mass to 20 parts by mass per 1 part by mass of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier. When the toner is contained in the replenishing developer in an amount of 2 parts by mass or less per 1 part by mass of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier the amount of the carrier replenished becomes so large that the carrier is excessively supplied. As a result the concentration of the carrier in the developing device becomes so high that the charge amount of the toner may increase. In addition when the charge amount of the toner increases the toner decreases in developing capability to potentially reduce the image density. When the toner is contained in the replenishing developer in an amount of 50 parts by mass or more per 1 part by mass of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier the amount of the carrier in the replenishing developer becomes small and the carrier in the image forming apparatus is exchanged less frequently so that the effects of improving the carrier degradation cannot expected in some cases.

A process cartridge of the present invention includes a latent electrostatic image bearing member and a developing unit configured to develop a latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member with a developer containing the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and a toner wherein the latent electrostatic image bearing member is supported integrally with the developing unit.

An embodiment of the process cartridge of the present invention will be described with reference to .

As illustrated in a process cartridge includes a latent electrostatic image bearing member a charging device configured to charge the latent electrostatic image bearing member a developing device configured to develop a latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member with the developer of the present invention to thereby form a toner image and a cleaning device configured to remove the toner remaining on the latent electrostatic image bearing member after the toner image has been transferred from the latent electrostatic image bearing member to a recording medium. The process cartridge is detachably mountable to a main body of an image forming apparatus such as a copier and a printer.

An image forming apparatus of the present invention includes a unit configured to form a latent electrostatic image on a latent electrostatic image bearing member a unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member with a developer containing the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and a toner to thereby form a toner image a unit configured to transfer the toner image from the latent electrostatic image bearing member to a recording medium and a unit configured to fix the toner image transferred on the recording medium. The unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably a unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image with the developer in which magnetic brushes are formed to thereby form a toner image.

The image forming method includes a step of forming a latent electrostatic image on a latent electrostatic image bearing member a step of developing a latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member with a developer containing the above described latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and a toner to thereby form a toner image a step of transferring the toner image from the latent electrostatic image bearing member to a recording medium and a step of fixing the toner image transferred on the recording medium. The step of developing the latent electrostatic image is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the intended purpose but is preferably a unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image with the developer in which magnetic brushes are formed to thereby form a toner image.

An embodiment of the image forming apparatus of the present invention will be described with reference to .

As illustrated in first a latent electrostatic image bearing member is rotated at a predetermined circumferential velocity and the surface of the latent electrostatic image bearing member is uniformly charged to a predetermined positive or negative potential with a charging device . Next the surface of the latent electrostatic image bearing member is exposed to laser light emitted from an exposing device denoted by L in to thereby form a latent electrostatic images. Furthermore the latent electrostatic image on the surface of the latent electrostatic image bearing member is developed by a developing device with a developer containing the latent electrostatic image developing carrier of the present invention and a toner to thereby form a toner image. Next the toner image formed on the surface of the latent electrostatic image bearing member is transferred onto a recording paper sheet that is fed from a paper supplier to in between the latent electrostatic image bearing member and a transfer device in synchronization with the rotation of the latent electrostatic image bearing member . The recording paper sheet onto which the toner image has been transferred is separated from the surface of the latent electrostatic image bearing member and introduced into a fixing device so as to fix the image thereon. Thereafter the resultant product is printed out from the image forming device as a copy. The surface of the latent electrostatic image bearing member from which the toner image has been transferred is cleaned by a cleaning device so as to remove the toner remaining after the transfer and is charge eliminated by a charge eliminating device and repeatedly used for image formation.

The present invention will next be described in detail by way of Examples and Comparative Examples. However the present invention should not be construed as being limited to the Examples. Notably the shape factor SF 1 the shape factor SF 2 the weight average particle diameter and the arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of core particles the number average particle diameter and the powder specific resistance of a filler the shape factor SF 2 and the bulk density of a carrier and the weight average particle diameter of a toner measured in Examples and Comparative Examples are those measured by the above described measurement methods.

MnCOpowder Mg OH powder and FeOpowder were weighed and mixed together to obtain a powder mixture. The powder mixture was calcined with a heating furnace at 900 C. for 3 hours in an atmosphere. The thus calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 7 m. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 250 C. for 5 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 1 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 1 were analyzed for composition and were found to be MnO 46.2 mol MgO 0.7 mol and FeO 53 mol . Also the core particles 1 were found to have a SF 1 of 140 a SF 2 of 145 and an Ra of 0.7 m.

In the same manner as in Core Particles Production Example 1 the powder mixture was calcined and the calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 3 n. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 200 C. for 5 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 2 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 2 were found to have a SF 1 of 130 a SF 2 of 152 and an Ra of 0.93 m.

In the same manner as in Core Particles Production Example 1 the powder mixture was calcined and the calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 1 m. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 300 C. for 5 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 3 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 3 were found to have a SF 1 of 125 a SF 2 of 119 and an Ra of 0.45 m.

In the same manner as in Core Particles Production Example 1 the powder mixture was calcined and the calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 1 m. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 050 C. for 5 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 4 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 4 were found to have a SF 1 of 130 a SF 2 of 125 and an Ra of 0.75 m.

MnCOpowder Mg OH powder FeOpowder and SrCOpowder were weighed and mixed together to obtain a powder mixture. The powder mixture was calcined with a heating furnace at 850 C. for 1 hour in an atmosphere. The thus calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 3 m or less. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 120 C. for 4 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 5 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 nm. The core particles 5 were analyzed for composition and were found to be MnO 40.0 mol MgO 10.0 mol FeO 50.0 mol and SrO 0.4 mol . Also the core particles 5 were found to have a SF 1 of 145 a SF 2 of 155 and an Ra of 0.85 m.

In the same manner as in Core Particles Production Example 4 the powder mixture was calcined and the calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 1 m. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 180 C. for 4 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 6 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 6 were found to have a SF 1 of 135 a SF 2 of 122 and an Ra of 0.63 m.

In the same manner as in Core Particles Production Example 4 the powder mixture was calcined and the calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 1 m. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 080 C. for 4 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 7 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 7 were found to have a SF 1 of 150 a SF 2 of 165 and an Ra of 1.03 m.

MnCOpowder Mg OH powder FeOpowder and CaCOpowder were weighed and mixed together to obtain a powder mixture. The powder mixture was calcined with a heating furnace at 850 C. for 1 hour in an atmosphere. The thus calcined product was cooled and then pulverized to form powder having a weight average particle diameter of 3 m or less. A dispersing agent 1 by mass and water were added to the formed powder to prepare slurry which was fed to a spray dryer for granulation to obtain a granulated product having a weight average particle diameter of about 40 m. The granulated product was charged to a firing furnace where the granulated product was fired in a nitrogen atmosphere at 1 200 C. for 5 hours. The fired product was milled with a mill and sieved for controlling the grain size to thereby obtain core particles 8 spherical ferrite particles having a weight average particle diameter of about 35 m. The core particles 8 were analyzed for composition and were found to be MnO 44.3 mol MgO 0.7 mol FeO 53 mol and CaO 2.0 mol . Also the core particles 8 were found to have a SF 1 of 130 a SF 2 of 140 and an Ra of 0.68 m.

Aluminum oxide AKP 30 product of Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. 100 g was dispersed in water 1 L and the obtained suspension was heated to 70 C. Next 12 by mass aqueous ammonia and a solution of tin II chloride 100 g and phosphorus pentoxide 3 g dissolved in 2N hydrochloric acid 1 L were added dropwise to the suspension for 2 hours so that the pH thereof became 7 to 8. After this dropwise addition the suspension was filtrated and washed to obtain a cake which was then dried at 110 C. This dry powder was treated under nitrogen flow at 500 C. for 1 hour to obtain electroconductive filler 1 . The obtained electroconductive filler 1 was found to have a number average particle diameter of 400 nm and a powder specific resistance of 50 cm.

Aluminum oxide AKP 30 product of Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. 100 g was dispersed in water 1 L and the obtained suspension was heated to 70 C. Next 12 by mass aqueous ammonia and a solution of tin II chloride 10 g and phosphorus pentoxide 0.30 g dissolved in 2N hydrochloric acid 100 mL were added dropwise to the suspension for 12 min so that the pH thereof became 7 to 8. After this dropwise addition the suspension was filtrated and washed to obtain a cake which was then dried at 110 C. This dry powder was treated under nitrogen flow at 500 C. for 1 hour to obtain non electroconductive filler 2 . The obtained non electroconductive filler 2 was found to have a number average particle diameter of 300 nm and a powder specific resistance of 1 200 cm.

Aluminum oxide AKP 30 product of Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. 100 g was dispersed in water 1 L and the obtained suspension was heated to 70 C. Next 12 by mass aqueous ammonia and a solution of tin II chloride 150 g and phosphorus pentoxide 4.5 g dissolved in 2N hydrochloric acid 1.5 L were added dropwise to the suspension for 3 hours so that the pH thereof became 7 to 8. After this dropwise addition the suspension was filtrated and washed to obtain a cake which was then dried at 110 C. This dry powder was treated under nitrogen flow at 500 C. for 1 hour to obtain electroconductive filler 3 . The obtained electroconductive filler 3 was found to have a number average particle diameter of 600 nm and a powder specific resistance of 10 cm.

Aluminum oxide AKP 30 product of Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. 100 g was dispersed in water 1 L and the obtained suspension was heated to 70 C. Next 12 by mass aqueous ammonia and a solution of tin II chloride 11.6 g dissolved in 2N hydrochloric acid 1 L were added dropwise to the suspension for 40 min so that the pH thereof became 7 to 8. After this dropwise addition the suspension was filtrated and washed to obtain a cake which was then dried at 110 C. This dry powder was treated under nitrogen flow at 500 C. for 1 hour to obtain electroconductive filler 4 . The obtained electroconductive filler 4 was found to have a number average particle diameter of 300 nm and a powder specific resistance of 4 cm.

Rutile type titanium oxide KR 310 Titan Kogyo Ltd. 100 g was dispersed in water 1 L and the obtained suspension was heated to 70 C. Next 12 by mass aqueous ammonia and a solution of tin II chloride 100 g and phosphorus pentoxide 3 g dissolved in 2N hydrochloric acid 1 L were added dropwise to the suspension for 2 hours so that the pH thereof became 7 to 8. After this dropwise addition the suspension was filtrated and washed to obtain a cake which was then dried at 110 C. This dry powder was treated under nitrogen flow at 500 C. for 1 hour to obtain electroconductive filler 5 . The obtained electroconductive filler 5 was found to have a number average particle diameter of 450 nm and a powder specific resistance of 40 cm.

Toluene 300 g was charged to a flask equipped with a stirrer and increased in temperature to 90 C. under nitrogen gas flow. Next a mixture of 3 methacryloxypropyltris trimethylsiloxane silane SYLAPLANE TM 0701T product of Chisso Corporation 84.4 g 200 mmol 3 methacryloxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane 39 g 150 mmol methyl methacrylate 65.0 g 650 mmol and 2 2 azobis 2 methylbutylonitrile 0.58 g 3 mmol was added dropwise thereto for 1 hour. After this dropwise addition a solution of 2 2 azobis 2 methylbutylonitrile 0.06 g 0.3 mmol dissolved in toluene 15 g was further added thereto the total amount of 2 2 azobis 2 methylbutylonitrile 0.64 g 3.3 mmol followed by mixing for 3 hours at 90 C. to 100 C. to perform radical copolymerization to thereby obtain resin 1 . The obtained resin 1 was found to have a weight average molecular weight of 33 000. Next the resin 1 was diluted with toluene so that the non volatile content became 25 by mass. The thus obtained 25 by mass solution of the resin 1 was found to have a viscosity of 8.8 mm s and a specific gravity of 0.91.

 Resin 2 was obtained in the same manner as in Resin Synthesis Example 1 except that the 3 methacryloxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane was changed to 3 methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane 37.2 g 150 mmol to perform radical copolymerization. The obtained resin 2 was found to have a weight average molecular weight of 34 000. Next the resin 2 was diluted with toluene so that the non volatile content became 25 by mass. The thus obtained 25 by mass solution of the resin 2 was found to have a viscosity of 8.7 mm s and a specific gravity of 0.91.

 Coating layer forming solution A solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier A. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution A and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier A . The properties of the carrier A are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution B solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier B. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution B and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier B . The properties of the carrier B are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution C solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier C. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution C and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier C . The properties of the carrier C are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution D solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier D. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution D and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier D . The properties of the carrier D are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution E solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier E. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution E and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier E . The properties of the carrier E are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution F solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier F. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution E and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier F . The properties of the carrier F are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution G solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier G. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution G and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier G . The properties of the carrier G are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution H solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier H. The core particles 2 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution H and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier H . The properties of the carrier H are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution I solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier I. The core particles 5 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution I and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier I . The properties of the carrier I are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution J solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier J. The core particles 5 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution J and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier J . The properties of the carrier J are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution K solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier K. The core particles 5 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution K and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier K . The properties of the carrier K are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution L solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier L. The core particles 5 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution L and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier L . The properties of the carrier L are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution M solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier M. The core particles 5 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution M and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier M . The properties of the carrier M are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution N solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier N. The core particles 6 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution N and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier N . The properties of the carrier N are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution O solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier O. The core particles 8 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution O and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a multi functional mixer. Specifically the core particles 8 which had been heated to 100 C. and the coating layer forming solution O were charged into the multi functional mixer where mixing stirring blades were rotated to perform coating stirring and drying until the coating liquid was evaporated. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier O . The properties of the carrier O are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution P solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier P. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution P and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier P . The properties of the carrier P are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution Q solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier Q. The core particles 1 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution Q and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier Q . The properties of the carrier Q are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution S solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier S. The core particles 3 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution S and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier S . The properties of the carrier S are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution T solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier T. The core particles 5 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution T and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a multi functional mixer. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier T . The properties of the carrier T are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution U solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier U. The core particles 6 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution U and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier U . The properties of the carrier U are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution V solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier V. The core particles 7 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution V and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier V . The properties of the carrier V are shown in Table 1.

 Coating layer forming solution W solid content 10 by mass having the following composition was prepared to form a coating layer of latent electrostatic image developing carrier W. The core particles 4 1 000 parts by mass were coated with the coating layer forming solution W and dried. Here the coating and the drying were performed using a fluidized bed coating apparatus the fluidized vessels of which had been each controlled to 70 C. The obtained carrier was fired in an electric furnace at 180 C. for 2 hours to obtain carrier W . The properties of the carrier W are shown in Table 1.

Each 930 parts by mass of the carrier A to carrier W obtained in Examples and Comparative Examples was mixed with a toner 70 parts by mass for use in a commercially available digital full color printer RICOH Pro C901 product of Ricoh Company Ltd. followed by stirring at 81 rpm for 5 min using a turbular mixer to thereby produce a developer for evaluation. Also replenishing developers were each produced from the above carrier and the above toner so that the concentration of the toner became 10 by mass.

The latent electrostatic image developing carriers obtained in Examples and Comparative Examples were evaluated. The results are shown in Table 2.

Each of the thus produced developers and each of the thus produced replenishing developers were set to a commercially available digital color printer RICOH Pro C901 product of Ricoh Company Ltd. . Then the printer was caused to print on 100 000 sheets a letter chart with an image area of 8 the size of one letter about 2 mm about 2 mm and further to print the letter chart on 200 000 sheets.

In order to evaluate influence due to hysteresis the above printer after the printing of 100 000 sheets i.e. 100 kp in the above evaluation of printed images was caused to print a band chart illustrated in . The difference between the image densities of images corresponding to the first one rotation a of the sleeve toner bearing member and the second one rotation b subsequent to the first one rotation a was measured to evaluate the influence due to the hysteresis of the previous image. The measurement was performed with a color meter X Rite938 product of X Rite Co. . Three portions of the image corresponding to the center rear and front of the sleeve were measured and an average difference among the obtained measurements was calculated as ID which was evaluated according to the following evaluation criteria A very good B good C acceptable which are regarded as applicable levels and D practically unacceptable which is regarded as a non applicable level. Notably the smaller ID means the less influence due to hysteresis for the previous image formation.

In the arrow indicates the direction in which the paper sheet is fed and the gray portion and the blank portion indicate an image portion and a non image portion respectively. exemplarily illustrates an abnormal image observed after the printing of the band chart. In the arrow indicates the direction in which the paper sheet is fed a denotes an image corresponding to one rotation of the sleeve the white portions are non image portions and a1 a2 a3 b1 and b2 are images receiving the influence due to the hysteresis of the previous image.

The toner attached to the latent electrostatic image developing carrier before printing i.e. the number of printed sheets 0 was extracted with methyl ethyl ketone. Separately the toner attached to the latent electrostatic image developing carrier in the developer after the printing of 300 000 sheets in the above evaluation of printed images was extracted with methyl ethyl ketone. The difference between the above amounts of the toner extracted with methyl ethyl ketone is defined as the amount of spent toner which was evaluated according to the following evaluation criteria A very good B good C acceptable which are regarded as applicable levels and D practically unacceptable which is regarded as a non applicable level.

The resistance of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier in the developer before printing i.e. the number of printed sheets 0 the resistance of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier in the developer after the printing of 100 000 sheets i.e. 100 kp in the above evaluation of printed images and the resistance of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier in the developer after the printing of 300 000 sheets i.e. 300 kp in the above evaluation of printed images were measured and the difference between the resistance measured before printing and the resistance measured after 100 kp and the difference between the resistance measured before printing and the resistance measured after 300 kp were measured to evaluate change in resistance of the carrier over time. As illustrated in a blow off cage with a 795 mesh net and compressive gas denoted by C in was used to aspirate off toner particles from the developer and the resultant latent electrostatic image developing carrier was subjected to measurement. The resistance of the latent electrostatic image developing carrier was measured using a cell of a fluorine resin container housing electrodes and which are disposed 2 mm apart and each have a surface area of 2 cm 4 cm as illustrated in . Specifically the latent electrostatic image developing carrier was charged to the cell and a DC voltage of 1 000 V was applied to between the electrodes. Then a DC resistance was measured with HIGH RESISTANCE METER 4329A LJK 5HVLVWDQFH OHWHU product of YOKOKAWA Hewlett Packard Co Ltd. . Thereafter the difference Log R between the measured resistance and the resistance measured before printing i.e. after printing of 0 sheets was calculated. The evaluation was made according to the following criteria A very good B good C acceptable which are regarded as applicable levels and D practically unacceptable which is regarded as a non applicable level.

The developers containing the latent electrostatic image developing carriers produced in Examples 1 to 15 were good since these were found to be small in ID after the printing of 100 000 sheets. Also the developers containing the latent electrostatic image developing carriers produced in Examples 1 to 15 were found to be smaller in change between the resistance measured before printing i.e. after printing of 0 sheets and the resistance measured after the printing of 100 000 sheets and in change between the resistance measured before printing and the resistance measured after the printing of 300 000 sheets. Also in these developers the amount of spent toner was small and less change in image was observed.

In contrast the developers containing the latent electrostatic image developing carriers produced in Comparative Examples 2 3 4 and 6 were found to be large in ID after the printing of 100 000 sheets be greatly affected by hysteresis for the previous image formation and form visually observed abnormal images. The developer containing the latent electrostatic image developing carrier produced in Comparative Example 5 was found to exhibit a large amount of spent toner background smear caused by reduction in charge amount toner scattering in the apparatus and elevation in image density. The latent electrostatic image developing carriers produced in Comparative Examples 1 and 7 were found to large in change between the resistance measured before printing i.e. the number of printed sheets 0 and the resistance measured after the printing of 300 000 sheets and changes in image quality were observed such as reduction in amount of toner on thin lines and elevation of image density. The latent electrostatic image developing carrier produced in Comparative Example 8 was found to cause carrier deposition so much. As a result the carrier was scattered and attached onto the image leading to image failures.

As described above it is found that the latent electrostatic image developing carriers produced in Examples 1 to 15 even when used continuously for a long period of time can stably supply a necessary amount of toner to a latent electrostatic image bearing member without being affected by hysteresis and can prevent an increase in resistance due to deposition of spent toner thereon.

wherein the latent electrostatic image developing carrier has a shape factor SF 2 of 115 to 150 and has a bulk density of 1.8 g cmto 2.4 g cm 

wherein the core particles have a shape factor SF 2 of 120 to 160 and have an arithmetic mean surface roughness Ra of 0.5 m to 1.0 m and

wherein the coating layer contains a resin and a filler and an amount of the filler contained in the coating layer is 50 parts by mass to 500 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the resin contained in the coating layer.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to wherein the filler contains at least an electroconductive filler and a non electroconductive filler.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to or wherein the filler contains at least one selected from the group consisting of aluminum oxide titanium oxide and barium sulfate.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein the filler has a number average particle diameter of 50 nm to 800 nm.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein the resin contains a silicone resin.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein the resin contains a cured product of a mixture containing a silane coupling agent and a silicone resin.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein the resin contains a crosslinked product formed by hydrolyzing a copolymer containing at least unit A represented by the following General Formula A and unit B represented by the following General Formula B to form a silanol group followed by condensation 

in General Formula A Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms m is an integer of 1 to 8 and X is a molar ratio of the unit A in the copolymer and is 10 mol to 90 mol 

in General Formula B Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms Rrepresents an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms or an alkoxy group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms m is an integer of 1 to 8 and Y is a molar ratio of the unit B in the copolymer and is 10 mol to 90 mol .

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein the amount of the filler contained in the coating layer is 100 parts by mass to 300 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the resin contained in the coating layer.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein an amount of the resin is 0.5 by mass to 3.0 by mass relative to an amount of the core particles.

 The latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to wherein the coating layer is formed on the core particles with a fluidized bed coating apparatus.

a developing unit configured to develop a latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member with a developer containing a toner and the latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to 

wherein the latent electrostatic image bearing member is supported integrally with the developing unit.

a unit configured to form a latent electrostatic image on a latent electrostatic image bearing member 

a unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image on the latent electrostatic image bearing member with a developer containing a toner and the latent electrostatic image developing carrier according to any one of to to thereby form a toner image 

a unit configured to transfer the toner image from the latent electrostatic image bearing member to a recording medium and

 The image forming apparatus according to wherein the unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image is a unit configured to develop the latent electrostatic image with the developer with which magnetic brushes are formed to thereby form the toner image.

This application claims priority to Japanese application No. 2011 196277 filed on Sep. 8 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.

