---

title: Methods and apparatus to identify usage of quick response codes
abstract: Methods and apparatus are disclosed to identify usage of quick response codes. An example method includes inspecting a received request to identify a QR code associated with the request, the request being received from a device in response to an instruction included in the QR code. The example method further includes storing a record indicating access to the identified QR code. The example method further includes determining a redirect universal resource locator (URL) associated with the identified QR code. The example method further includes transmitting a redirect message to the device, the redirect message to instruct the device to navigate to the redirect URL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218610&OS=09218610&RS=09218610
owner: THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US), LLC
number: 09218610
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121023
---
This disclosure relates generally to quick response QR codes and more particularly to methods and apparatus to identify usage of quick response codes.

Quick Response QR codes are two dimensional black and white barcodes that encode information such as text and or numbers. When a user scans a QR code with for example their mobile device they may be presented with additional information such as a Universal Resource Locator of a website a phone number a name etc. QR codes are increasingly being used for multiple purposes including for example advertising.

Quick Response QR codes are two dimensional black and white barcodes that encode information such as text and or numbers. When a user scans a QR code with for example their mobile device they may be presented with additional information such as a Universal Resource Locator of a website a phone number a name etc. While the examples described herein are described in the context of a QR code any other past present and or future barcode and or barcode format may additionally or alternatively be used. For example any one dimensional barcode e.g. a Code 39 barcode a Code 128 barcode a Universal Product Code UPC barcode etc. any two dimensional barcode e.g. an Aztec Code barcode a Codablock barcode a High Capacity Color Barcode HCCB a QR code etc. and or any other past present and or future barcode may additionally or alternatively be used.

Users typically use QR codes to gain additional information from the world around them. For example some carriers e.g. posters billboards business cards etc. may only contain a limited amount of information due to size and or design constraints. To enable the user to gather additional information about whatever they are looking at QR codes are implemented which allow the user to scan the QR code using a QR code scanner e.g. a mobile device and retrieve additional information from for example a website.

In some examples QR codes are used in advertising. Using QR code in advertising enables a user to gather additional information about the product s and or advertisement s that they are looking at. For example a QR code may comprise a link to a website where a user can navigate to purchase the product associated with the QR code. In some other examples QR codes may be used to enable the user to find additional information about a product. For example a QR code may be used on a food product to enable a user to lookup nutritional information related to that food product. In some examples the information provided by the QR code is a link to a website. However the information presented by the QR code may be any other information such as for example a link to download a smartphone application contact information geolocation information a telephone number etc. For example to share contact information e.g. in lieu of a business card a first user might display a QR code on their smart phone while a second user uses a QR scanning application on a second smartphone to recognize the contact information encoded by the QR code displayed by the first smartphone.

Because QR codes are easy to implement QR codes are displayed using multiple sources such as for example newspapers flyers posters product packaging television advertisements billboards etc. Because QR codes can be displayed on carriers that are movable e.g. newspapers magazines business cards etc. they can be viewed at almost any location. For example a QR code may be viewed on a billboard in a downtown area at a storefront on product packaging in a store on a display in a community center on a magazine in a user s home etc. Further QR codes may encode different types of information. For example a QR code on product packaging might encode a link to additional information about a product while a QR code displayed at the front of a restaurant might encode a link to a menu for the restaurant. In some examples the QR code does not encode a link to a website. For example a QR code might encode contact information e.g. a telephone number and address etc.

Companies want to know that their expenses are effectively being allocated to different forms of advertising e.g. billboards newspapers magazines etc. . Because users are increasingly using QR codes to access additional information associated with advertisements companies that use QR codes seek to understand how users receive and or interact with QR code. For example such companies wish to understand the reach and effectiveness of the QR codes and the advertisements and or products associated with such QR codes. By monitoring the use of such QR codes not only can the company understand the usage of QR codes but the company may also understand trends related to how users interact with those QR codes. For example a company using QR codes to provide additional information on an advertisement will typically invest a large amount of capital into preparing and distributing such advertisement. Such a company may be interested to know for example whether a poster carrying a QR code in a mall location is more effective than a billboard carrying a QR code in a downtown location whether a television advertisement carrying a QR code is more effective than a newspaper advertisement carrying a QR code etc. Such information enables companies to effectively plan marketing campaigns.

Users typically use smartphones with QR reader and or scanner applications to read and or scan QR codes. The QR reader application uses a camera of the smartphone to take an image of the QR code decode the QR code and perform an action based on the decoded QR code. For example the action might be displaying a website retrieved from an address e.g. a universal resource locator URL encoded by the QR code in a browser of the smartphone. There are many different QR reading applications available for smart phones via for example the Apple iTunes store the Google play App Store etc.

Companies monitoring the reach and effectiveness of QR codes and advertisements associated with those QR codes are presently limited to inspecting web server logs to identify when information encoded by a QR code is requested. Because many different types and or formats of advertisements may link to the same information e.g. both a QR code in a magazine and a QR code in a newspaper may encode a link to the same website etc. inspecting web server logs does not enable identification of the source of the QR code. Further inspecting web server logs does not enable user identification. While web server logs may identify an Internet Protocol IP address of a device that requested the information IP addresses are prone to change e.g. many IP addresses are dynamically assigned and may be re assigned after a short period of time and or requests may come through proxy servers that mask the identity of the ultimate requesting device. Thus server logs typically do not uniquely identify the device and or the user making the request. Identifying users that utilize QR codes enables correlation of demographic information with the use of such QR codes. Additionally inspecting web server logs does not enable identification of the location of the QR code e.g. on page three of the New York Times on a billboard at the intersection of State Street and Madison Street in Chicago Ill. etc. at the time the QR code was scanned. For example based on data in web server logs it is not possible to tell if a QR code was scanned from a billboard in a downtown location or if a QR code was scanned from a magazine at a home location.

Companies such as The Nielsen Company utilize on device meters to monitor usage of cellphones tablets and or other computing devices. An on device meter is software that collects data of interest concerning usage of the monitored device. Because many different QR scanning applications exist for many different smart phone devices interfacing with these applications via an on device meter is difficult. For example some QR scanning applications delete images captured by the camera after they are recognized to save storage space. Furthermore images captured by a camera are not always stored in the same location. In some examples restrictions imposed by the operating systems of the smart phone prevents access to local storage associated with other applications e.g. QR scanning applications . Accordingly identifying images captured by a camera is difficult. In some examples the smart phone only allows a single application to interact with the device hardware e.g. a camera at a time. Because applications not controlling the hardware cannot interface with that hardware in such circumstances an on device meter monitoring a QR scanning application cannot detect when a QR code is scanned. In some examples usage of QR codes may be monitored by collaborating with existing QR scanning applications and their respective developers. In such examples the QR scanning application may be structured to transmit a notification e.g. a log a request etc. when a QR code is scanned. However collaborating with developers of QR scanning applications is difficult because there are many different developers of QR scanning applications.

Example systems methods and or apparatus described herein enable monitoring the reach and effectiveness of QR codes associated with different media e.g. posters billboards magazines etc. enable reporting of demographics associated with the use of QR codes enable identification of different sources of QR codes and or enable monitoring of trends associated with the use of QR code.

In the examples described herein different QR codes are used in association with different carrier advertisement pairs to facilitate identification of the advertisements and or carriers e.g. display formats of those advertisements. For example an advertisement included in a newspaper may contain a first QR code while a same and or similar advertisement included in a magazine may contain a second QR code different from the first QR code. Both the first and the second QR codes when scanned result in display of the same and or similar information. However because they are different they can be uniquely identified.

When different QR codes are used for the same and or similar advertisements different properties of the advertisement may be encoded into and or identified by the QR code. For example a QR code may identify a vendor e.g. the New York Times Wired Magazine etc. a source type e.g. a magazine a poster a flyer etc. a location a product and or combinations of the same.

Panelist based and or non panelist based e.g. census based systems are disclosed herein to enable identification of the usage of QR codes. Panelist based systems disclosed herein enlist users i.e. panelists who have agreed to participate in a study. In panelist systems demographic information is obtained from the user when for example the user joins and or registers for the panel. The demographic information may be obtained from the user for example via a telephone interview by having the user complete a survey e.g. an online survey etc. In some examples the panelist is instructed to install an on device meter onto their mobile device e.g. a cellular phone a personal digital assistant etc. In examples disclosed herein the on device meter monitors usage of QR codes by the mobile device and reports such usage to a monitoring entity. Using a panelist based system enables identification of demographic information in association with the use of QR codes enables identification of a location where the QR code was scanned e.g. via global positioning system GPS information collected from the monitored device and or enables identification of QR codes that do not reference a website e.g. a QR code that encodes a telephone number etc. .

Non panelist systems are commonly referred to as census systems. Census based systems disclosed herein allow for collection of QR code usage information from non panelist users. However because the users are not panelists demographic information is not collected and or identified. Some census based systems collect exposure information at the server level. Collecting information at the server level enables an accurate measure of information served by the monitored server but does not collect information related to servers that are not monitored. Furthermore collecting information at the server level does not easily lend itself to distinguishing panelist users from non panelists users. Accordingly census systems may record information from panelist and non panelist users alike.

Unlike panelist based systems in which audience measurement entities rely solely on their own panel member data to collect demographics based audience measurement example census based systems disclosed herein enable an audience measurement entity to share and or retrieve demographic information with other entities that operate based on user registration models. As used herein a user registration model is a model in which users subscribe to services of those entities by creating an account and providing demographic related information about themselves. Sharing of demographic information associated with registered users of database proprietors enables an audience measurement entity to extend or supplement their panel data with substantially reliable demographics information from external sources e.g. database proprietors thus extending the coverage accuracy and or completeness of their demographics based audience measurements. Such access also enables the audience measurement entity to monitor persons who would not otherwise have joined an audience measurement panel. Any entity having a database identifying demographics of a set of individuals may cooperate with the audience measurement entity. Such entities may be referred to as database proprietors and include entities such as Facebook Google Yahoo MSN Twitter Apple iTunes Experian etc. Such cooperation with database proprietors effectively leverages the content tagging capabilities of the monitoring entity and the use of databases of non ratings entities such as social media and other websites to create an enormous demographically accurate panel that results in accurate reliable measurements of exposures to Internet content such as advertising and or programming. Methods for cooperating with database proprietors to obtain demographic information are disclosed in Mazumdar U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 513 148 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Census based systems may be implemented in a number of different ways. In some examples disclosed herein QR codes when scanned direct a smartphone or other device to request data from a third party site e.g. a site not hosted by the monitoring data collection site . In some examples this third party site provides information to the user devices associated with the QR code that was scanned. In some examples the third party site instructs the browser of the user device to transmit a request to the monitoring data collection site. In some examples the instruction causes the browser to request an image e.g. a one pixel by one pixel and or a transparent image from the monitoring data collection site. In response the monitoring data collection site may develop a monitoring instruction to monitor further usage of the device as described in Blumenau U.S. Pat. No. 6 108 637 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some other examples QR codes when scanned direct the mobile device to the monitoring data collection site rather than to a third party system. The monitoring data collection site then records the access based on the QR code and redirects the mobile device to the third party site. The third party site then provides information to the mobile device associated with the QR code that was scanned. In some examples redirecting the mobile device is implemented by transmitting a redirect message to the mobile device. In some other examples the monitoring data collection site functions as a proxy server. When the monitoring data collection site functions as a proxy server it requests the information from the third party site on behalf of the mobile device and relays the information to the mobile device.

The example monitoring entity of the illustrated example of is an entity that monitors and or reports the usage of advertisements and or other types of media such as The Nielsen Company US LLC. In the illustrated example the monitoring entity is a neutral third party that does not provide content and or advertisements to end users. This un involvement with the content advertisement delivery ensures the neutral status of the monitoring entity and thus enhances the trusted nature of the data it collects. In the illustrated example the monitoring entity operates and or hosts the monitoring data collection site . The example monitoring data collection site of the illustrated example is a server and or database that collects and or receives information related to the usage of QR codes. In the illustrated example the monitoring data collection site receives information via the network . However the monitoring data collection site may receive data in any additional and or alternative fashion.

The example content provider and or advertising entity of the illustrated example of can be a proprietor of a website e.g. cnn.com amazon.com boardgamegeek.com etc. and or an advertisement publisher. The content provider and or advertising entity may engage the monitoring entity to collect and or monitor information related to advertisements associated with the content provider and or advertising entity . Such a content provider and or advertising entity may wish to use QR codes displayed in various forms of advertising e.g. online newspapers magazines billboards posters product packaging etc. The QR codes displayed on those advertisements enable end users to retrieve additional information about the advertisement and or the products associated with those advertisements. Accordingly the content provider and or advertising entity of the illustrated example operates and or hosts a web server that responds to requests for additional information associated with the QR codes. In some examples the information returned in response to the request for additional information includes an instruction to inform the monitoring data collection site of the usage of the QR code. In some examples the web server is operated and or hosted by a third party.

The example network of the illustrated example of is the Internet. However any other network could additionally or alternatively be used. For example some or all of the network may be a company s intranet network a personal e.g. home network etc. Although the network of the illustrated example operates based on the HTTP and IP protocols the network may additionally or alternatively use any other protocol to enable communication between devices on the network.

The example mobile device of the illustrated example of is a smartphone e.g. an Apple iPhone HTC Sensation Blackberry Bold etc. . However any other type of device may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a tablet e.g. an Apple iPad a Motorola Xoom a Blackberry Playbook etc. a laptop computer a desktop computer a camera etc. In the illustrated example the mobile device is owned leased and or otherwise belongs to a respective panelist and or user. The monitoring entity of the illustrated example does not provide the mobile device to the panelist and or user. In other examples panelists are provided with a mobile device to participate in the panel. In the illustrated example the mobile device is used to read and or scan a QR code. In response to scanning the QR code the mobile device displays additional information associated with the QR code in the form of for example a webpage.

The on device meter of the illustrated example of is software provided to the mobile device by for example the monitoring entity when or after for example a panelist associated with the mobile device agrees to be monitored. In the example of the on device meter collects monitoring information such as user browser interaction user application interaction device status user selection user input URL information location information QR code information image information etc. and stores the monitoring information in a memory of the mobile device . Periodically and or aperiodically the on device meter transmits the monitoring information to the monitoring data collection site . In the illustrated example the on device meter may modify configuration settings of the mobile device such as for example proxy settings VPN settings camera settings etc. in order to enable access to the camera and or images captured by the camera enable communication of monitoring information to the monitoring entity etc.

The example mobile device of the illustrated example of is a mobile device that does not include an on device meter . In the illustrated example the mobile device is a smartphone e.g. an Apple iPhone HTC Sensation Blackberry Bold etc. . However any other type of device may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a tablet e.g. an Apple iPad a Motorola Xoom a Blackberry Playbook etc. a laptop computer a desktop computer a camera etc. In the illustrated example the mobile device is a non panelist device. That is the user and or operator of the mobile device are not associated and or affiliated with the monitoring entity . Because of the lack of a relationship with the monitoring entity the mobile device of the illustrated example does not include the on device meter . Not including the on device meter enables a wider range of users and or devices to be monitored. For example persons unwilling to be on a panel may still be monitored. Additionally or alternatively devices having insufficient resources to run a monitor may be monitored. The mobile device in some examples may be limited in the type s of monitoring information that may be collected e.g. it may not provide a location of the mobile device an identifier of the user of the mobile device etc. In examples where an on device meter is not deployed to the mobile device census based measurement techniques may nonetheless be used to identify usage of QR codes by the mobile device . In such examples calculations can be performed to impute demographics to the census data based on data collected from the panelists employing on device meters. An example method of imputing such statistics is disclosed in Sim U.S. Pat. No. 7 376 722 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The example magazine the example billboard and the example poster of the illustrated example of are example types of carriers e.g. types of displays that may be used to display a QR code. Although the illustrated example of shows the example magazine the example billboard and the example poster any other type s of carrier s may additionally and or alternatively be used to display a QR code such as for example a business card a newspaper a flyer product packaging a website a kiosk a television display artwork etc. In the illustrated example the example magazine the example Billboard and the example poster are each associated with a same product and or a same advertisement. However in some examples the example magazine the example Billboard and the example poster are each associated with different products and or different advertisements from the same or different products.

In the illustrated example the example magazine includes a first QR code the example billboard includes a second QR code and the example poster includes a third QR code . In the illustrated example the first QR code the second QR code and the third QR code are different from each other e.g. they encode different information . However in some examples the first QR code the second QR code and the third QR code are the same and thus encode the same information. The QR codes of the illustrated example encode instructions which when scanned by the mobile device cause the mobile device to retrieve a webpage based on the instructions. In some examples a webpage is retrieved from the Web server . In the illustrated example the webpage retrieved in association with each of the QR codes is located at a different respective universal resource locator URL for each of the QR codes . For example the first QR code when scanned instructs the mobile device to retrieve a first webpage at a first URL while the second QR code when scanned instructs the mobile device to retrieve a second webpage a second URL different from the first URL. The retrieval of the webpages typically does not require user involvement after the QR code is scanned. In some examples the first webpage and the second webpage contain the same information e.g. are the same advertisement but are hosted at separate URLs. As a result because the example magazine the example Billboard and the example poster are each associated with the same product the same information related to that product is displayed irrespective of which of the different QR codes are scanned. However in some examples different product information may be displayed based on the type of carrier scanned. Further because the information is posted at separate URLs the use of the QR codes associated with the example magazine the example Billboard and the example poster can be recorded and or identified.

The camera of the illustrated example of is a camera capable of taking images of the surroundings of the mobile device . In some examples images taken by the camera are stored in the memory of the mobile device . In the illustrated example the camera is a charge coupled device CCD camera. However any other past present and or future type and or number of imaging device s may additionally or alternatively be used. In the illustrated example the camera is used to scan QR codes when the user of the mobile device aligns the mobile device such that the QR code to be scanned is within a field of view of the camera .

The memory of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the memory may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc.

The network communicator of the illustrated example of is implemented by a cellular communicator to allow the mobile device to communicate with a cellular network e.g. the network . However additionally or alternatively the network communicator may be implemented by any other type of network interface such as for example an Ethernet interface a Wi Fi interface a Bluetooth Interface etc.

The browser of the illustrated example of is implemented by a browser capable of displaying websites and or other Internet media e.g. product information advertisements videos images etc. via the mobile device . In the illustrated example the browser is implemented as an Android browser. However any other browser may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example Opera Dolphin Safari etc. Furthermore browsers that are traditionally associated with use on a desktop and or laptop computer may additionally and or alternatively be used such as for example Google Chrome Microsoft Internet Explorer and or Mozilla Firefox . In the illustrated example when a QR code encoding a URL is scanned the browser requests the resource located at the URL via the network communicator and displays and or renders the resource via the mobile device .

The example data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the data store is illustrated as a single database the data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases.

The positioning system of the illustrated example of is implemented by a global positioning system GPS . The positioning system enables identification of the location of the mobile device . In some examples the positioning system determines the location based on positions of satellites in relation to the location of the mobile device. However in some other examples the positioning system determines location based on position of cellular radio towers in relation to the location of mobile device. However any other past present and or future method for determining the location of the mobile device e.g. cellular tower triangulation may additionally or alternatively be used.

The on device meter ODM of the illustrated example is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the ODM identifies QR codes scanned by the camera of the mobile device stores an identifier of the scanned QR code and transmits the identifier to the monitoring data collection site .

In the illustrated example the ODM includes a QR identifier a data storer a data store a data communicator a browser controller and a location identifier . The example QR identifier in the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the example QR identifier receives images of QR codes captured by the camera and decodes the QR code s contained in those images to obtain an identifier encoded by the QR code. The example QR identifier in some cases decodes a URL that is encoded within the QR code and instructs the browser to navigate to that URL.

The example data storer of the illustrated example of implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the example data storer stores an identifier that was identified within the scanned QR code by the example QR identifier . The example data storer then stores the identifier in the data store . In some examples the example data storer stores additional information in the data store in association with the identifier. For example the example data storer stores an image of the QR code a location of the mobile device a panelist identifier a network address of the mobile device and or an identifier of the mobile device.

The data communicator of the illustrated example of is implemented by an Ethernet driver that interfaces with the network communicator . In the illustrated example the data communicator transmits data stored in the data store to the monitoring data collection site via for example the Internet. While in the illustrated example the data communicator is an Ethernet driver any other type s of interface may additionally or alternatively be used. For example the data communicator might include one or more of a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface a digital subscriber line DSL interface a T1 interface etc. While in the illustrated example a single data communicator is shown any number and or type s of data communicators may additionally or alternatively be used.

The example browser controller of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the browser controller determines whether the identifier encoded by the QR code is a URL. When the identifier encoded by the QR code is a URL the browser controller instructs the browser to navigate to a resource identified by the URL. Accordingly when the user scans a QR code that encodes a URL the browser retrieves information located at the URL and presents that information to the user via the mobile device .

The example location identifier of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the location identifier interfaces with the positioning system of the mobile device . Because the mobile device of the illustrated example is portable QR codes may be scanned at any location. Identifying the location of the mobile device enables the monitoring entity to identify where particular QR codes were scanned. Such location information may be important because it may indicate for example that users are more likely to view advertisements in magazines while at work compared to when those users are at home and or may identify advertising locations that achieve greater attention.

The monitoring request handler of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the monitoring request handler receives requests for QR code monitoring services associated with a carrier advertisement pair. Furthermore the monitoring request handler receives additional information from the content provider and or advertising entity concerning how it would prefer the monitoring information to be collected. For example the content provider and or advertising entity may specify that the monitoring information should be collected using a redirect approach as opposed to collecting the monitoring information using a tagging approach.

The URL generator of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the URL generator generates a URL that is encoded in the QR code generated by the QR generator . Based on the preferences of the content provider and or advertising entity received by the monitoring request handler the URL generator generates a URL that achieves the goal set forth by the content provider and or advertising entity . For example if the content provider and or advertising entity specified that the monitoring information should be collected using HTTP redirect messages the URL generator generates a URL identifying a resource hosted by the monitoring entity e.g. the monitoring data collection site and that uniquely identifies the carrier advertisement pair to be monitored. When a request is received at the generated URL the monitoring data collection site may redirect the requesting device to a second URL as specified by the content provider and or advertising entity . Alternatively if the content provider and or advertising entity specified that the monitoring information should be collected using a tagging approach the URL generator generates a URL identifying a resource that is hosted by the content provider and or advertising entity e.g. the web server and that uniquely identifies the carrier advertisement pair to be monitored. In the illustrated example the content provider and or advertising entity is instructed to add tag instructions to the resource identified by the URL so that requests for that resource additionally cause the requesting device to notify the monitoring data collection site of the request.

The QR generator of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the QR generator generates a QR code that encodes the URL generated by the URL generator . Although in the examples illustrated herein a QR code is used any other type of machine readable code e.g. barcode may additionally or alternatively be used.

The Internet request handler of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. When a QR code is scanned the browser of the mobile device sends a request to the URL encoded within the QR code. When for example the URL identifies the monitoring data collection site the Internet request handler responds to the request. In some examples the example Internet request handler responds to such requests with a redirect URL as specified by the content provider and or advertising entity to the monitoring request handler . In the illustrated example the Internet request handler responds to requests when they are the first request that is triggered by scanning a QR code. The Internet request handler in some examples responds by redirecting the requesting device e.g. the mobile device to the content provider and or advertising entity . In some examples the redirection mechanism implemented by the Internet request handler can be used by the content provider and or advertising entity . For example the content provider and or advertising entity may process the request and respond with a redirect URL e.g. a URL associated with a third party site .

The tag notification handler of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. When a QR code is scanned the browser of the mobile device sends a request to the URL encoded within the QR code. When for example the URL identifies the web server the web server responds to the request with an instruction to notify the monitoring data collection site of the request.

The on device meter data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. Periodically and or aperiodically the on device meter of the mobile device transmits monitoring information to the monitoring data collection site . The on device meter data receiver receives the monitoring information from the on device meter . In some examples the monitoring information is transmitted via for example the Internet. However in some examples the monitoring information is physically transported e.g. via a storage device such as a flash drive magnetic storage media optical storage media etc. to a location of the monitoring data collection site . Typically the monitoring data collection site will receive data from many user devices e.g. panelists and or non panelists .

The data storer of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the example data storer stores information received from the content provider and or advertising entity the URL generated by the URL generator the QR code generated by the QR generator monitoring information received via the Internet request handler monitoring information received via the tag notification handler and or monitoring information received via the on device meter data receiver . Furthermore the data storer of the illustrated example stores identifying information related to the carriers carrying the QR code s such as for example a type e.g. whether the carrier being monitored is a billboard a magazine a poster a postcard a website a business card a newspaper etc. a unique identifier a name of the advertisement a name of the carrier advertisement pair etc.

The example data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any storage device and or storage disc for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the data store is illustrated as a single database the data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases.

The reporter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the reporter generates reports based on the received monitoring information. In some examples the reports are presented to the content provider and or advertising entity and or other entities. The reports may identify different aspects about the carriers carrying the QR code s such as for example whether a poster in a mall location is more effective than a billboard in a downtown location whether a television advertisement more effective than a newspaper advertisement etc.

In the illustrated example of the presentation type column identifies a detailed type and or location of presentation of the carrier advertisement pair e.g. how the carrier is displayed . For example column of row indicates that the QR code associated with carrier advertisement pair is displayed e.g. carried on page three of the arts section of the Chicago Tribune Newspaper dated Oct. 15 2012. However the presentation type column may include more and or less detailed information. For example the presentation type column may identify that the QR code is displayed in a newspaper that the QR code is displayed at a particular location of a page e.g. near a top right corner etc. a periodicity of the publication e.g. whether the newspaper is published daily weekly etc. etc.

In the illustrated example of the first advertisement is carried by three different types of carriers a billboard that was displayed at an intersection of State street and Lake street in Chicago Ill. e.g. the first example row page 10 of Wired magazine e.g. the second example row and a poster that was displayed at the Adams and Wabash elevated el train station in Chicago Ill. e.g. the third example row . Each of the first the second and the third rows have an identifier that uniquely identifies the carrier advertisement pair. The unique identifier is used as part of the example QR URL e.g. column . The QR URL is encoded as the QR code shown in the QR code column . Accordingly the QR code uniquely identifies the row associated with the QR code. As such when a request is received at the QR URL the carrier advertisement pair can be uniquely identified.

In the illustrated example the first example row the second example row and the third example row have a redirect URL of the web server . In the illustrated example the redirect URL is the same for each of the locations associated with the first advertisement e.g. rows . Thus when any of the QR codes associated with the first advertisement are scanned the information at the redirect URL is displayed. However any other redirect URL may alternatively be used to for example display different information based on the scanned QR code e.g. a webpage displayed when a QR code on a billboard is scanned may be different from a webpage displayed when a QR code in a magazine is scanned . Furthermore different redirect URLs may be used for different advertisements. For example advertisement 2 e.g. the fourth example row is associated with a redirect URL that is different from the redirect URL associated with the first advertisement e.g. rows .

In examples where a tagging approach is used to monitor usage of QR codes a redirect URL may not be stored. For example the third advertisement e.g. the advertisement associated with rows may not be associated with a redirect URL. In such an example the QR URL may direct the mobile device to display information retrieved from the web server associated with the third advertisement. The web server then instructs the mobile device to inform the monitoring data collection site of the request made at the QR URL.

In the illustrated example identifying whether the exposure was monitored via panelist data or census data may be beneficial for analysis purposes. Census data includes data monitored using the monitoring data collection site and or the web server . The monitoring data collection site and or the web server may not be aware of whether the requesting device employs the on device meter . Accordingly there is limited opportunity to at the time of receiving a request identify whether or not the request is associated with a panelist. Accordingly census data includes information pertaining to panelists and non panelists alike. On the other hand panelist data is limited to information that was recorded using an on device meter. Identifying whether the exposure was monitored via panelist or census data may enable reduction of double counted exposures e.g. when an exposure is monitored by both the panelist system and the census system . Double counted exposures represent an overlap between the census data and the panelist data. For example a mobile device having an on device meter may store a record that a QR code was scanned. The request generated in response to the QR code being scanned may also be recorded by the web server and or the monitoring data collection site .

In the illustrated example double counted exposures are identified using for example the IP address of the mobile device in combination with the timestamp the presentation identifier whether the exposure was monitored via panelist or census data etc. For example row indicates that the QR code associated with carrier advertisement pair was scanned on Sep. 3 2012 at 3 38 PM by a mobile device having IP address 207.200.74.38 that used census based measurement. Row indicates that the QR code associated with the same carrier advertisement pair was scanned on Sep. 3 2012 at 3 38 PM by a mobile device having IP address 207.200.74.38 that used panelist based measurement. In some examples the monitoring data collection site identifies that since the same carrier advertisement pair was scanned at approximately the same time using the same IP address that the exposure of rows and has been recorded multiple times.

The IP address column of the illustrated example of represents an IP address of the mobile device when the QR code was scanned. In the illustrated example the IP address is recorded by the monitoring data collection site because for example a request identifying the IP address of the mobile device is sent from the mobile device to the monitoring data collection site . Further the IP address is also recorded by the on device meter when present. Recording the IP address using the on device meter is important because IP addresses may in some examples be dynamic. A dynamic IP address is an IP address that may change over time. For example at a first time a device may be assigned a first IP address while at a second time the device may be assigned a second IP address different from the first IP address. In the illustrated example the on device meter is structured to record the IP address at the time of scanning the QR code. In some examples the IP address may provide an approximate geographic location of the mobile device. For example the IP address 64.208.186.106 may be approximately located in New York City.

The timestamp column of the illustrated example of represents a time when information associated with the QR code e.g. a website was presented. However the timestamp column may alternatively represent a time when the QR code was scanned by the mobile device . Storing a timestamp e.g. date and or time enables analysis of when users scanned a particular QR code e.g. are users more likely to scan a QR code on a weekend during a weekday etc. .

The panelist identifier of the illustrated example of identifies the panelist that scanned the QR code. While in the illustrated example a panelist identifier is used any other information that may be used to identify the panelist may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a mobile device identifier a panelist name a cookie etc. The presentation identifier of the illustrated example of identifies the carrier advertisement pair that was scanned and its placement by virtue of a look up in column of . While in the illustrated example the presentation identifier is used any additional or alternative information may be used to identify the carrier advertisement pair that was scanned such as for example the scanned QR code the URL encoded by the scanned QR code etc.

The panelist information of the illustrated example of represents additional information that was reported by the mobile device. In the illustrated example the panelist information represents a location of the mobile device at the time that the QR code was scanned using global positioning system GPS coordinates. However any other information and or any other format may additionally and or alternatively be used. For example the additional information may represent whether the mobile device was connected to a wireless network at the time the QR code was scanned whether there was user interaction with the mobile device for a threshold amount of time after the QR code was scanned etc.

While an example manner of implementing the example on device meter of has been illustrated in and an example manner of implementing the example monitoring data collection site of has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in and or may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example QR identifier the example data storer the example data communicator the example browser controller the example location identifier and or more generally the example on device meter of and or and or the example monitoring request handler the example URL generator the example QR generator the example internet request handler the example tag notification handler the example on device meter data receiver the example data storer the example data store the example reporter and or more generally the example monitoring data collection site of and or may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example QR identifier the example data storer the example data communicator the example browser controller the example location identifier and or more generally the example on device meter of and or and or the example monitoring request handler the example URL generator the example QR generator the example internet request handler the example tag notification handler the example on device meter data receiver the example data storer the example data store the example reporter and or more generally the example monitoring data collection site of and or could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example QR identifier the example data storer the example data communicator the example browser controller the example location identifier and or more generally the example on device meter of and or and or the example monitoring request handler the example URL generator the example QR generator the example internet request handler the example tag notification handler the example on device meter data receiver the example data storer the example data store the example reporter and or more generally the example monitoring data collection site of and or are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable medium e.g. a storage device or storage disc such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example QR identifier the example data storer the example data communicator the example browser controller the example location identifier and or more generally the example on device meter of and or and or the example monitoring request handler the example URL generator the example QR generator the example internet request handler the example tag notification handler the example on device meter data receiver the example data storer the example data store the example reporter and or more generally the example monitoring data collection site of and or may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the example on device meter of and or and or the example monitoring data collection site of and or are shown in and or . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise a program for execution by a physical hardware processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . A processor is sometimes referred to as a microprocessor or a central processing unit CPU . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing the example the example on device meter of and or and or the example monitoring data collection site of and or may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or disc in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage disc or device and to exclude propagating signals. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage and to exclude propagating signals. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended. Thus a claim using at least as the transition term in its preamble may include elements in addition to those expressly recited in the claim.

The monitoring request handler of the illustrated example then determines whether QR codes associated with the carrier advertisement pairs will be monitored by using a redirect approach or a tagging approach. In the illustrated example the request for monitoring services associated with a QR code displayed on a carrier advertisement pair may specify whether QR codes associated with the carrier advertisement pair will be monitored by using the redirect approach or the tagging approach. However in some examples when the request does not specify which approach is to be used a default approach may be selected. The redirect approach is described in further detail in connection with . The tagging approach is described in further detail in connection with .

If the redirect approach is chosen the monitoring request handler stores a redirection URL associated with the carrier advertisement pair. block . In the illustrated example the redirect URL is provided by the content provider and or advertising entity in association with the carrier advertisement pair such that when a QR code is scanned the correct information is displayed to the user. In the illustrated example of each of the first carrier advertisement pair e.g. rows are each associated with a same redirect URL. As further shown in a different redirect URL is stored for the second carrier advertisement pair e.g. row .

If the tagging approach is chosen the monitoring request handler generates tag instructions e.g. monitoring instruction to be included in a webpage . block . The tag instructions when executed by a browser cause the browser to notify the monitoring data collection site of their execution e.g. by sending a dummy HTTP request with monitoring data such as the presentation ID identifying the carrier advertisement pair in its payload wherein the dummy request does not return data to the requesting device . The tag instructions are then provided to the content provider and or advertising entity by the monitoring request handler . block . The content provider and or advertising entity then inserts the tag instructions into a resource e.g. a webpage that is to be transmitted to a browser when a particular QR code is scanned. With respect to row of when the QR code is scanned the mobile device retrieves a webpage from a QR URL. The QR URL includes the presentation ID . The webpage returned when the QR URL is queried includes the tag instructions which cause the mobile device to notify the monitoring data collection site that the QR code identified by presentation ID was scanned e.g. by sending a dummy HTTP request .

The URL generator then generates a URL including the unique ID. Block . In some examples the URL generated by the URL generator identifies a resource hosted by the monitoring data collection site . In some other examples the URL generated by the URL generator identifies a resource hosted by the website .

The QR generator then generates a QR code based on the URL. block . The generated QR code encodes the URL and when scanned causes the scanning device e.g. the mobile device to retrieve the resource hosted at the URL encoded by the QR code. The data store stores identifier of the type of display unique ID URL the QR code and or the redirect URL in the data store . The monitoring request handler then instructs the content provider and or advertising entity to publish the QR code in association with the carrier advertisement pair. block . The monitoring request handler determines whether additional advertisements and or carrier advertisement pairs are to be monitored. block . If additional advertisements and or carrier advertisement pairs are to be monitored control returns to block where the monitoring request handler receives additional requests for QR code monitoring services associated with the advertisement s and or carrier advertisement pair s .

The Internet request handler receives the request from the mobile device for the resource identified by the URL. block . The Internet request handler then identifies the scanned carrier advertisement pair by inspecting the URL to which the request was directed. block . In some examples the carrier advertisement pair is identified based on a portion of the URL e.g. an identifier within the URL such as for example the presentation ID . Based on the identification of the carrier advertisement pair the data storer stores a record of the requested carrier advertisement pair in the data store .

With respect to the illustrated example of the data storer stores information similar to rows and or . For example the data storer identifies that the monitoring is being performed via a census approach and accordingly does not store a panelist identifier and or additional panelist information. In some examples user identifying information may be retrieved e.g. cookie data . In some examples user identifying information is retrieved from a database proprietor implementing a user registration model such as for example Facebook Google Yahoo MSN Twitter Apple iTunes Experian etc. In some examples such user identifying information is recorded to enable identification of the usage of QR codes. In the illustrated example the data storer records a timestamp in association with the record. block . Timestamping e.g. recording a date and or a time that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of when a QR code was scanned.

The Internet request handler then transmits a redirect instruction including the redirect URL to the mobile device thereby instructing the mobile device to request a resource located at the redirect URL. block . In the illustrated example the redirect URL is transmitted using a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP redirect instruction. However any other type and or protocol of message may additionally or alternatively be used. For example the redirect instruction may be implemented using a HyperText Markup Language HTML page including JavaScript instructions. For example a JavaScript on Load function that executes when a webpage is loaded by the browser may cause the redirect URL to be requested. In some examples the HTML page may indicate to the user that they are being redirected to a different site. For example a message such as you will be redirected to xyz.com in two seconds may be displayed as part of the HTML page. The redirect URL transmitted in the redirect instruction corresponds to the redirect URL associated with the carrier advertisement pair as shown in .

The browser of the mobile device then receives the redirect instruction from the Internet request handler . block . Based on the received redirect instruction the browser navigates to and or transmits a request to the redirect URL specified by the redirect instruction. The browser then displays information received in response to the redirected request.

The web server then receives the request from the mobile device for the resource identified by the QR code. block . The web server identifies the carrier advertisement pair requested based on the URL at which the resource was requested. block . The web server then generates tag instructions for inclusion as part of the response to the previously received request. block . In the illustrated example the web server generates the tag instructions by retrieving the instructions from a memory of the web server . For example the tag instructions may be stored as part of a Hypertext Markup Language HTML file stored by the web server . However in some examples the web server generates the tag instructions in response to each received request individually. For example the tag instructions may be generated on the fly when responding to the request. In the illustrated example the tag instructions cause the mobile device to notify the monitoring data collection site that the QR code was scanned. Accordingly the tag instructions include an identifier of the carrier advertisement pair requested in association with the QR code. In some examples the tag instructions include additional information such as for example a timestamp an address and or name of the web server cookie information received as part of the request an identifier of the advertisement entity etc. In the illustrated example the tag instructions are implemented using JavaScript code. However any other type and or format of instructions may additionally or alternatively be used. The web server then transmits a response including the tag instructions to the mobile device . block .

The browser of the mobile device then receives the response to its previous request block . The browser of the mobile device executes the tag instructions included in the response block thereby sending a notification to the tag notification handler of the monitoring data collection site . The tag notification handler then receives the tag notification. block . In the illustrated example the tag notification handler processes the received notification to identify information included in the notification. The data storer then stores a record of the tag notification. block .

Referring to the illustrated example of the data storer stores information similar to rows and or . For example the data storer identifies that the monitoring is being performed via a census approach and accordingly does not store a panelist identifier and or additional panelist information. In some examples user identifying information may be retrieved e.g. cookie data . In some examples user identifying information is retrieved from a database proprietor implementing a user registration model such as for example Facebook Google Yahoo MSN Twitter Apple iTunes Experian etc. In some examples this user identifying information is recorded to enable identification of the usage of QR codes. In the illustrated example the data storer records a timestamp in association with the record. Timestamping e.g. recording a time and or a date that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of when a QR code was scanned.

The QR identifier determines whether the decoded information is in the format of a URL. block . If the decoded information is formatted as a URL the browser controller instructs the browser to navigate to the URL encoded by the QR code. block . In the illustrated example the browser controller instructs the browser to navigate to the URL via an application programming interface API of the browser. However in some examples the browser controller instructs the browser to navigate to the URL using a system call via an operating system of the mobile device . If the decoded information is not formatted as a URL e.g. the decoded information is formatted as an address a telephone number etc. control proceeds to block where the data storer stores a record of the decoded information in the data store . block . In the illustrated example the data storer stores the decoded information from the QR code. However in some examples the data storer may additionally or alternatively store the QR code a portion of the decoded information e.g. a portion of a URL encoded by the QR code etc.

The location identifier then determines a current location of the mobile device . block . In the illustrated example the location identifier determines the location using a GPS system of the mobile device . However in some examples the location identifier may additionally or alternatively use any other approach to determine the location such as for example using wireless networks e.g. known locations of Wi Fi networks cellular triangulation etc. . The data storer then stores the location of the mobile device in association with the record of the decoded information. block . In some examples determining the location of the mobile device may not be possible e.g. when no GPS satellites are available etc. . In such examples the location information may be omitted and or a record indicating that no location information was available may be stored in association with the record of the decoded information.

The data storer then stores a timestamp in association with the record of the decoded information in the data store . block . In the illustrated example the timestamp represents a date and or a time at which the QR code was scanned. However any other date and or time may additionally or alternatively be represented such as for example a date and or a time at which a location of the mobile device was identified a date and or a time at which the information encoded by the QR code was identified etc. Storing a timestamp enables accurate correlation of the date and or the time at which an carrier advertisement pair associated with the QR code was viewed.

The data communicator transmits the stored record to the monitoring data collection site . block . In the illustrated example the data communicator transmits the stored record in an aperiodic fashion. That is the stored record and other stored records e.g. records identifying other QR codes that were previously scanned are transmitted once a threshold amount of records are stored in the data store of the mobile device . However the data communicator may transmit the stored record in any other fashion. For example the data communicator may transmit the stored records on a periodic basis e.g. daily hourly weekly etc. . In the illustrated example the data communicator transmits the stored records once a threshold amount of data e.g. 1 KB 64 KB 1 MB etc. is stored in the data store . However any other threshold may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a threshold number of records. Additionally or alternatively the data communicator may transmit the record s in response to an external event such as for example when a QR code is scanned when a request for additional records is received from the monitoring data collection site when a wireless network is available etc. . In some examples the periodic and aperiodic approaches may be used in combination.

The processor platform of the instant example includes a silicon based processor . For example the processor can be implemented by one or more microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor includes a local memory e.g. a cache and is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

One or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint a camera a global positioning sensor and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit . The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit thus typically includes a graphics driver card.

The interface circuit also includes a communication device e.g. the data communicator the monitoring request handler the internet request handler the tag notification handler the on device meter data receiver such as a modem or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external computers via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives and digital versatile disk DVD drives. The mass storage device may implement the data store and or the data store .

The coded instructions of and or may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

