---

title: Trusted WLAN connectivity to 3GPP evolved packet core
abstract: Systems, devices, and configurations to implement trusted connections within wireless networks and associated devices and systems are generally disclosed herein. In some examples, a wireless local area network (WLAN) may be attached to a 3GPP evolved packet core (EPC) as a trusted access network, without use of an evolved packet data gateway (ePDG) and overhead from related tunneling and encryption. Information to create the trusted attachment between a mobile device and a WLAN may be exchanged using Access Network Query Protocol (ANQP) extensions defined by IEEE standard 802.11u-2011, or using other protocols or standards such as DHCP or EAP. A trusted WLAN container with defined data structure fields may be transferred in the ANQP elements to exchange information used in the establishment and operation of the trusted attachment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526027&OS=09526027&RS=09526027
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09526027
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120427
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US2012 035568 filed Apr. 27 2012 published on Nov. 1 2012 as WO 2012 149400 A2 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 481 024 filed Apr. 29 2011 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments pertain to wireless networks and wireless network communications facilitated by various devices and systems. Some embodiments relate to trusted connections established within wireless networks by associated devices and systems.

As the use of mobile wireless devices such as smart phones and tablet devices becomes more ubiquitous the demands on the limited amount of radio frequency spectrum used by those devices has increased resulting in wireless network congestion and reduced bandwidth for devices operating in the licensed spectrum. A variety of techniques have been introduced to provide additional bandwidth including data offloading from a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN to other networks such as another WWAN or a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN . For example data may be offloaded from a 3G or 4G WWAN operating in accordance with a standard from the 3GPP standards family to a Wi Fi WLAN operating in accordance with a standard from the 802.11 standards family.

With existing data offloading techniques provided with use of some 3GPP wireless network standards and in other settings a WLAN access network is treated as an untrusted access network. This causes WLAN access to attach to a 3GPP Evolved Packet Core EPC using an Evolved Packet Data Gateway ePDG . An additional Internet Protocol Security IPSec tunnel also may need to be established between the mobile device and the ePDG. This causes extra tunneling and encryption overhead for all communication between the mobile wireless device and the 3GPP EPC.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations provided herein describe a mechanism by which a mobile device can attach to a 3GPP EPC using a WLAN as a trusted access network. In some examples this removes the use of an intermediate ePDG entity and also removes the extra tunneling and encryption overhead from WLAN communications. This enables a WLAN access network to be treated similar to other non 3GPP trusted access networks such as a CDMA High Rate Packet Data HRPD network a WiMAX e.g. IEEE standard 802.16 network and the like.

Additionally techniques provided herein describe a mechanism to communicate an Access Point Name APN and other NAS Non Access Stratum parameters and configuration options when the mobile device is connecting attaching to 3GPP core with the use of signaling messages. These signaling messages may be communicated between user equipment UE such as a mobile wireless device and components of a WLAN Access Network such as a Wi Fi access point or access controller AP AC . In one example embodiment the signaling messages are provided according to communications using IEEE standard 802.11u 2011. Such a signaling message mechanism is extensible and can be used to carry additional information elements and fields. Further the parameters for the information elements and fields may be defined for both trusted and untrusted attachment.

With existing techniques a WLAN is unable to be established as a trusted access network to a 3GPP EPC. In some example embodiments described herein IEEE 802.11u ANQP Access Network Query Protocol extensions are used to provide various data structures and to exchange information. The ANQP extensions accordingly may be used for establishing a trusted attachment between the UE and WLAN access network and authenticate with elements of the 3GPP EPC such as a packet data network gateway PDN GW and an authentication and authorization system AAA server. This information can be exchanged either prior to association with the WLAN access network or after association connection establishment. A container that may be used for such an information exchange may be provided by definitions of the IEEE standard 802.11u 2011 or another standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family. The contents of this container are extensible and may be further defined by a wireless network specification for example a 3GPP WWAN specification such as 3GPP Release 11 and beyond .

WLAN access networks have evolved with development of IEEE standard amendments 802.11i 802.1x 802.11u and the Wi Fi Alliance Hotspot 2.0 standard and certification program. For example a WLAN access network may implement IEEE 802.11i and IEEE 802.1x e.g. Wi Fi Protected Access WPA2 Enterprise class based security mechanisms as use of a IEEE 802.11u standard implementation provides mechanisms that can assist the process of Access Network Discovery and Selection. To proceed with establishment of a trusted access network the UE may be authenticated with the 3GPP network using Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for UMTS Authentication and Key Agreement EAP AKA over a STa interface with a trusted WLAN access network. The techniques described herein provide additional detail on these and similar mechanisms that may be used in an authentication and connection establishment process with a trusted WLAN access network.

The back end system architecture of the 3GPP EPC includes components such as one or more mobile management entity MME connected to the E UTRAN using an S1 MME interface with multiple MMEs that may be connected using a S10 interface a Serving Gateway connected to the E UTRAN using an S1 U interface a S11 interface between the MME and the Serving Gateway a Home Subscriber Server HSS connected to the MME with a S6a interface and an 2G 3G Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN used to facilitate UTRAN e.g. UTMS and GERAN e.g. GSM networks connected to the MME with a S3 interface and connected to the Serving Gateway using S4 and S12 interfaces. The Serving Gateway is further connected to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW using an S5 interface while the PDN gateway is connected using a Gx interface to a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF node . Various Operator Services such as an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the Internet are connected to the PCRF and the PDN Gateway using Rx and SGi interfaces respectively.

The 3GPP EPC performs various operations or verifications to determine whether an access network may be attached as a trusted network. For example in 3GPP Version 11 LTE A technical specification TS 24.302 the Home Public Land Mobile Network HPLMN operator of the 3GPP EPC determines whether a connected non 3GPP IP access network is a trusted or untrusted IP access network.

For attachment of an untrusted non 3GPP IP access network the communication between the UE and the non 3GPP IP access network is not considered to be secure. To provide communications over an untrusted non 3GPP IP access network to a 3GPP EPC using existing techniques an IPSec tunnel would be established with the 3GPP on a per access basis as needed to secure communications. As shown in this may result in increased tunneling and encryption overhead for all communications between the UE and the 3GPP EPC occurring through the Untrusted WLAN .

Using the techniques and configurations provided by some example embodiments a WLAN access network may be considered as trusted by the 3GPP EPC. Various mechanisms may be used to configure security among the communications of the UE WLAN and 3GPP EPC. For example the UE may use IEEE 802.11i and IEEE 802.1x aka WPA2 Enterprise class in WFA based security mechanisms to secure the connection between the UE and the WLAN. IEEE standard 802.11u defines mechanisms for Access Network Discovery and Selection including ANQP extensions for exchanging information. Further the UE may be authenticated with the WLAN and the 3GPP EPC using EAP AKA methods. With these authentication methods use of an ePDG is not required and WLAN access by a UE can be considered as a trusted access by the 3GPP EPC.

Upon attachment of a trusted non 3GPP IP access network the communication between any UE and the non 3GPP access network is considered to be secure. Thus there is no use for operations at the ePDG or another security gateway avoiding increased tunneling or encryption overhead to facilitate communication between UEs and the 3GPP EPC. The S2a interface can support either PMIP6 or GTP options for mobility management.

As further described herein the Trusted WLAN may employ various authentication techniques and communications with the 3GPP EPC and connected UEs to establish trusted communications which may be required for recognition as a trusted access network . The Trusted WLAN may employ IEEE 802.11i and IEEE 802.1x based security mechanisms and the UE may employ WPA2 Enterprise class security mechanisms. IEEE 802.11u mechanisms may be used for Network Discovery and Selection. For example IEEE 802.11u based ANQP and HotSpot 2.0 based extensions may allow the UE to exchange information with the 3GPP EPC to establish the trusted communication. The UE may be authenticated with the 3GPP EPC using EAP AKA EAP AKA Prime EAP AKA or EAP for GSM Subscriber Identity EAP SIM methods.

The Trusted WLAN Access Network may establish authentication and communication links with one or more components of a 3GPP EPC. For example the Trusted WLAN Access Network may use an S2a interface with the Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW to exchange data communications with either the APs or the AC . The Trusted WLAN Access Network may use a STa interface for authentication and authorization communications for example to communicate with an AAA of the 3GPP EPC.

The UE and Trusted WLAN Access Network may specify additional parameters when attaching to the 3GPP EPC using the S2a interface and the STa interface. These parameters may be provided using a Trusted WLAN container as explained in the following paragraphs and illustrated in or provided by other data containers or formats. The parameters also may be used to indicate additional signaling capabilities over the WLAN air interface. For example the parameters may include the following 

IP Address allocation to UEs connecting through a trusted WLAN may be configured to follow standard procedures for establishing trusted non 3GPP access. For example in 3GPP LTE networks this may implement enhancement standards for non 3GPP access such as defined in TS 23.402. Further certain Protocol Configuration Options such as deferred IP Allocation may be enabled.

IEEE standard 802.11u 2011 defines ANQP and the use of this protocol for discovery of external networks and their properties. ANQP can be used to exchange information over an IEEE 802.11 standard link layer in a secure manner. This information may be exchanged to establish a WLAN access networks as a trusted network with a 3GPP EPC and to authenticate devices connected to such a trusted network. As one example of ANQP usage IEEE standard 802.11u defines an ANQP based Information Element 3GPP Cellular Network Information which may serve as a generic container and provide cellular information such as list of PLMNs to assist WLAN enabled UEs in a selection of 3GPP networks.

While the Access Network Discovery and Selection Function ANDSF may be used to provide operator policies related to non 3GPP accesses of the WLAN to the UE ANQP can provide parameter values that can be used by the UE while taking action based on policies provided by ANDSF. Therefore the contents of the 3GPP Cellular Network Information container may be extended by 3GPP standards to include parameters to enable a trusted WLAN to attach to a 3GPP EPC. Additionally a new container may also be defined for trusted WLAN attachment to a 3GPP EPC and to extend the list of information elements supported by ANQP.

In connection with some embodiments ANQP is used to provide extensions including new elements that support Wi Fi Alliance Hotspot 2.0 features. These elements are defined for use in infrastructure base station subsystems BSSs only. Therefore for the elements defined as part of ANQP extensions the requesting UE e.g. the STA Wi Fi network client is always a non AP UE and the responding UE is always an AP.

ANQP elements as illustrated in may be defined to have a common format providing an Info ID field a length field and a variable length element specific information field. Further each ANQP element is assigned a unique Info ID. The IEEE 802.11 ANA Assigned Numbers Authority has allocated a block of 32 ANQP Info IDs that are assigned to new ANQP elements. Table 1 illustrated below illustrates these elements and ID values.

The Payload Information field provides a generic container whose content may be defined by a protocol specification such as a 3GPP specification. The following section provides one such example container for inclusion in an ANQP Payload Information field referred to as a Trusted WLAN Container. 

A Version field defines the version of the Trusted WLAN Container. For example a value of 00000000 may designate Version 1 while values 00000001 through 11111111 may be reserved or assigned for other purposes.

A Header Length field may define the number of octets after the Header Length in the Trusted WLAN Container.

An Information Element Identifier IEI field provided in IEI1 field IEIn 1 field and IEIn field may define the information element contents. For example 

For each of the IEIs the first octet is the IE identifier this is followed by the length of the IEI and then any other IEI specific fields. The IEI specific fields may include 

PDN Type. This specifies the type of addressing supported by the UE e.g. IPv4 IPv6 IPv4v6. The PDN GW allocates bearers accordingly.

Access Type. This specifies the access type. The user may obtain Direct Internet access or the user could get access to the 3GPP EPC and other services in the operator domain.

SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offloading LIPA Local IP Access Permissions. This specifies if the UE has permissions for local IP access or for selected IP traffic offloading.

Support for Online Charging. This provides an indication if the trusted WLAN needs to support online charging interactions for the UE.

Fully Qualified Domain Name FQDN of Online Charging Server OCS entity. This is the address of the OCS entity in case the trusted WLAN access needs to support online charging interactions.

Protocol Configuration Options. This may provide a container that could include options such as deferred IP Allocation. Other options defined by a 3GPP specification may also be used.

MCC Mobile Country Code octet x 1 for digits 1 and 2 octet x 2 bits to for digit 3 e.g. extending to the 4 least significant bit portion in The MCC field may be coded in accordance with standards provided by ITU T Rec. E212 Annex A.

MNC Mobile Network Code octet x 3 for digits 1 and 2 octet x 2 bits to for digit 3 e.g. extending to the 4 most significant bit portion in . The coding of this field is the responsibility of each administration but Binary coded decimal BCD coding is used. The MNC may include 2 or 3 digits. For PCS1900 for North America certain Federal regulations mandate that a 3 digit MNC be used. However a network operator may decide to use only two digits in the MNC over the radio interface. In this case bits to of octet x 2 shall be coded as 1111 . Mobile equipment may be configured to accept MNC coded in such a way.

As illustrated an ANQP element providing a container including a listing of PLMNs may be communicated and exchanged between the UE and the WLAN Access Network . Alternatively the information communicated via ANQP may be provided using other techniques and communication for example using DHCP or EAP as later discussed . As shown in operation the UE uses the container within an ANQP Query to request a list of PLMNs supported by the WLAN Access Network and the WLAN Access Network returns in the container a list of PLMNs supported in the ANQP Response based on static configuration. The format of this container may be specified by a network communication specification for example a 3GPP Cellular Network Information container defined by an IEEE 802.11u standard .

As illustrated an ANQP element providing a container including connection parameters for UE connection with a 3GPP EPC may be communicated and exchanged between the UE and the WLAN Access Network . As shown in operation the UE uses the container within an ANQP Query to communicate connectivity information to the WLAN Access Network . The format of this container may be specified by a network communication specification for example a trusted WLAN container defined by an IEEE 802.11u standard .

Based on the information received from the ANQP Query Response the UE may determine whether to perform an association with the 3GPP EPC through the WLAN Access Network . In response to a determination to proceed an association command in operation is provided from the UE to the WLAN Access Network .

Alternatively other network communication protocols may be used to communicate connection parameters for UE connection with the 3GPP EPC without use of ANQP messages. In one example additional or substitute parameters may be sent through one or more EAP messages such as being included within the authentication and authorization message exchange of operation described below. As another example further described below one or more DHCP messages may be used to exchange attachment parameters as described for operations and described below.

Returning to use of ANQP communicated parameters depicted in in operation the WLAN Access Network proceeds with authentication and authorization operations among the UE the WLAN Access Network and the 3GPP EPC. For example the entities may perform various 802.11 and 3GPP standard security exchanges such as having the UE send EAP Request Identity and the WLAN Access Network reply with EAP Response Identity. Further the WLAN Access Network may send an Authentication Request message to the AAA server with the NAI of the UE the VPLMN id the WLAN Access identity and the MAC address of the UE to the AAA Server as well as an indication whether the WLAN Access Network supports access to the 3GPP EPC or only provides a direct access to Internet. The message may be routed via one or several AAA proxies. The AAA server may obtain security material and authorization data from the HSS . Further EAP AKA exchanges may be executed per 3GPP specifications. For example the AAA Server may send an EAP Success message to the WLAN Access Network that includes the WLAN keying material Pairwise Master Key and adds Authorization data for the UE in the AAA underlying message.

In operation the WLAN Access Network may store the WLAN keying material to be used in communication with the authenticated UE. In operation the WLAN access network informs the UE about the successful authentication with an EAP Success message.

In operation the WLAN Access Network and the UE perform a 4 Way handshake per an 802.11 security procedure e.g. an 802.11i procedure and derive session keys to secure the 802.11 link. Upon establishment of the link network information may be exchanged with the UE for example in a Generic Container.

As depicted in operation the UE uses the Generic Container over the now secured 802.11 link to provide attachment parameters to the WLAN Access Network . Attachment parameters may include the preferred APN PDN Type Attach Type and other protocol configuration options. This may be provided in an ANQP query in operation . Alternatively network information exchanged between the UE and the WLAN Access Network in operation may be provided from communications using other communication protocols such as DHCP or EAP. If using DHCP the additional parameters may be sent in a DHCP Request message as in operation without use of an ANQP query as in operation or an ANQP response in operation .

In some embodiments the WLAN Access Network may send an ANQP response back to the UE not shown with a delay indicating that the UE needs to come back and query for the response at a later time. The delay interval may be in seconds. After the delay interval has passed the UE e.g. the STA may send an ANQP Comeback Request to the WLAN Access Network requesting the response to the query.

At least two alternative operations may be used to obtain an IP address for the UE . The first set of operations to obtain an IP address illustrated in illustrates use of a DHCP request in operation in addition to the ANQP query in operation . For example after the ANQP query of operation the UE sends a DHCP request in operation to the WLAN Access Network over the secured 802.11 link. As explained below this triggers IP connectivity establishment procedures in the network which results in the IP address response of operation .

A second set of alternative operations to obtain an IP address not fully illustrated in relies on use of the ANQP query to obtain an IP address for the UE . Thus the DHCP request of operation is not performed but instead DHCP or other IP address request parameters are carried inside of the ANQP query as in operation . This triggers similar IP connectivity establishment procedures in the networks to result in an IP address response being returned in the ANQP response as in operation .

In operation the IP connectivity establishment operations may result in the WLAN Access Network sending an IP request to the PDN GW . For example the WLAN Access Network may send a Proxy Binding Update message to the PDN GW if S2a interface is PMIP based or may send a GTP Create Bearer Request message if the S2a interface is GTP based. In operation the PDN GW may allocate an IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix based on the PDN type to the UE per 3GPP procedures. In operation the WLAN Access Network may receive an IP response from the PDN GW . For example the PDN GW may send a Proxy Binding Ack message to the WLAN Access Network if the S2a interface is PMIP based or a GTP Create Bearer Response message if the S2a interface is GTP based.

In operation the WLAN Access Network may send the IP address allocated by the PDN GW to the UE via DHCP Response message. In some further embodiments the IP Address allocated may be provided in an ANQP element such as a generic container. This may remove the use of separate DHCP request response messages to allocate an IP Address.

The WLAN Access Network may use a generic container over the secure 802.11 link to send additional configuration parameters to the UE. This may include the selected APN and any Protocol Configuration Options specified by the PDN GW . Thus additional ANQP communications may be exchanged between the UE and the WLAN Access Network . The ANQP Response in operation may be sent in response to the ANQP query in operation .

Upon successful attachment of the WLAN Access Network and connection establishment with the UE the UE may send and receive IP Traffic in operation over the secured WLAN link with the WLAN Access Network and use the established PMIP GTP tunnel to communicate further with the 3GPP EPC.

As illustrated the additional PDN connection establishment procedure is provided through use of an ANQP query which may include APN attachment type PCO and like values. This results in conducting the GTP PMIP tunneling procedure e.g. using select of the procedures illustrated in among the Wi Fi AP AC and components of the 3GPP EPC such as the PDN GW a PDN GW 2 a vPCRF an AAA Proxy an hPCRF or an HSS AAA .

An ANQP response which may include an IP address and other information for connection of the UE such as a mobile station MS is communicated from the Wi Fi AP AC to the MS . Accordingly upon successful establishment of the GTP PMIP Tunneling Procedure a new GTP PMIP tunnel will exist in addition to the Existing GTP PMIP Tunnel .

As illustrated one or more containers may be used for exchanging network information operation in ANQP communications between the UE and the WLAN. The communications may include an ANQP element providing a container with a PLMN listing for example as illustrated in or an ANQP element providing a Trusted WLAN Container for example as illustrated in including network connectivity information such as connection parameters.

Based on the information exchanged with the one or more containers various network authentication and authorization operations may be performed among the UE WLAN and 3GPP EPC operation . This may be followed by operations to secure the trusted WLAN link operation for example by performing an IEEE standard 802.11i 2004 WPA2 4 Way handshake for a Wi Fi connection and deriving session keys to secure the Wi Fi connection.

One or more ANQP elements providing a container may be used to exchange network attachment parameters operation . Operations may be conducted between the WLAN and the 3GPP EPC to establish IP connectivity for the UE operation for example through use of a DHCP request and response for a dynamic IP address.

Additionally one or more ANQP elements providing a container may be used to exchange additional configuration parameters as necessary for establishing UE and trusted network communications operation . Upon successful security and IP connectivity establishment among the UE the now trusted WLAN and the 3GPP EPC IP traffic is communicated using the connections operation .

Although several of the described example embodiments were included with reference to the use of 3GPP standard wireless network implementations it will be understood that the present techniques may be implemented in connection with a variety of other wireless wide area network standards such as WiMAX CDMA2000 EV DO and other 2G 3G 4G and 5G standard WWAN protocols and devices. Likewise although several of the described example embodiments were included with reference to the use of Wi Fi and WLAN communication standards from the IEEE 802.11 standards family the present techniques may be implemented in connection with a variety of other wireless local area network standards and protocols. Therefore the terms WWAN WLAN and wireless network as used herein are not necessarily intended to be limiting to the use of any particular network protocol but may also include a variety of wireless protocols and devices communicating via such wireless protocols.

As described herein various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors not shown such as a global positioning system GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory static memory and the processor also constitute machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a wireless local area network configuration and a wireless wide area network configuration it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes user equipment UE for example one or more systems apparatuses devices or other configurations configured to establish a connection with an Enhanced Packet Core EPC through a trusted attachment with a wireless local area network WLAN the UE comprising processing circuitry arranged to obtain from the WLAN a list of supported public land mobile networks PLMNs conduct a security exchange with the WLAN receive authentication information from results of the security exchange establish using one or more containers provided in Access Network Query Protocol ANQP communications attachment parameters to the WLAN for an EPC of one of the PLMNs receive using one or more containers provided in ANQP communications configuration parameters from the WLAN and implement the configuration parameters and conduct communications with the WLAN based on the configuration parameters.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 may optionally include the UE communicating with the WLAN according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family wherein the EPC is provided by a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN operating according to a Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standard.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 may optionally include operations to obtain from the WLAN a list of supported PLMNs that include transmitting an ANQP query including a 3GPP Network Information Element wherein the 3GPP Network Information Element included in the ANQP query provides a request for PLMNs supported by the WLAN and receiving from the WLAN an ANQP response including a 3GPP Network Information Element wherein the 3GPP Network Information Element included in the ANQP response provides a list of PLMNs supported by the WLAN.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 may optionally include operations to establish attachment parameters to the WLAN for one of the PLMNs by transmitting an ANQP query including a trusted WLAN container wherein the trusted WLAN container included in the ANQP query provides network connectivity information to establish a trusted connection between the UE and the EPC via the WLAN and receiving from the WLAN an ANQP response including a trusted WLAN container wherein the trusted WLAN container included in the ANQP response provides configuration parameters to the UE for the trusted connection.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 may optionally include processing circuitry arranged to transmit a DHCP request to the WLAN and receive in a DHCP response message from the WLAN the IP address allocated by a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW of the EPC.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 may optionally include the UE being a mobile computing device selected from the group consisting of a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a notebook computer a netbook computer and a tablet.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 may optionally include network equipment for example one or more systems apparatuses devices or other configurations configured to provide a wireless local area network WLAN the network equipment comprising processing circuitry arranged to establish the WLAN as a trusted access network for facilitating communications between a user equipment UE and an Evolved Packet Core EPC by using one or more communications to exchange network information with the UE during connection establishment the network information including connection parameters to enable the UE to connect to the EPC through the WLAN authenticating the UE with the EPC establishing IP connectivity with the UE from the EPC and transmitting communications between the UE and the EPC using the established IP connectivity.

In Example 8 the subject matter of Example 7 may optionally include processing circuitry being provided by either or both of an access controller or one or more access points wherein the network equipment provides the WLAN according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family and wherein the EPC is provided by a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN operating according to a Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standard.

In Example 9 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 8 may optionally include the network information exchanged with the UE during connection establishment being exchanged in one or more Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP communications or one or more Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP communications.

In Example 10 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 9 may optionally include the network information exchanged with the UE being provided by one or more containers in Access Network Query Protocol ANQP communications wherein at least one of the one or more containers in the ANQP communications is provided according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 10 may optionally include using the one or more containers in the ANQP communications to exchange network information with the UE by receiving from the UE an ANQP query including a 3GPP Network Information Element wherein the 3GPP Network Information Element included in the ANQP query provides a request for Public Land Mobile Networks PLMNs supported by the WLAN and responding to the UE with an ANQP response including a 3GPP Network Information Element wherein the 3GPP Network Information Element included in the ANQP response provides a list of PLMNs supported by the WLAN.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 11 may optionally include using the one or more containers in the ANQP communications to exchange network information with the UE by receiving from the UE an ANQP query including a trusted WLAN container wherein the trusted WLAN container included in the ANQP query provides network connectivity information to establish a trusted connection between the UE and the EPC via the WLAN and responding to the UE with an ANQP response including a trusted WLAN container wherein the trusted WLAN container included in the ANQP response provides configuration parameters to the UE for the trusted connection.

In Example 13 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 12 may optionally include authenticating the UE with the EPC by transmitting an authentication request to an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server of the EPC receiving from the AAA server an Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP status message and providing an indication to the UE with results of the authentication request based on the EAP status message.

In Example 14 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 13 may optionally include the processing circuitry further configured to secure the connection between the UE and the WLAN using a security procedure defined by one or more standards from the IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 15 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 14 may optionally include establishing IP connectivity with the UE from the EPC by receiving a DHCP request from the UE transmitting an IP request to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW of the EPC receiving a IP response from the PDN GW including an IP address allocated by the PDN GW and transmitting to the UE in a DHCP response message the IP address allocated by the PDN GW.

In Example 16 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 7 15 may optionally include authenticating the UE with the EPC by transmitting an authentication request message including an UE Network Access identifier a Visited Public Land Mobile Network identifier a WLAN access identity an UE Media Access Control MAC address and an indication whether the WLAN supports access to the EPC wherein the connection parameters provide attachment parameters to the WLAN including the preferred Access Point Name Packet Data Network Type and Attach Type.

Example 17 may include or may optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 16 to include a method e.g. a process technique or procedural implementation performed in a system apparatus device network or other setting for establishing a trusted connection between a user equipment UE and an Evolved Packet Core EPC comprising exchanging EPC network information with a UE in one or more Access Network Query Protocol ANQP communications the ANQP communications provided according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family authenticating the UE with the EPC establishing IP connectivity with the UE from the EPC and relaying communications between the UE and the EPC via a tunnel with the EPC.

In Example 18 the subject matter of Example 17 may optionally include the method being performed in a wireless local area network WLAN by either or both of an access controller or one or more access points of the WLAN wherein the WLAN operates according to a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family and wherein the EPC is provided by a network operating according to a Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standard.

In Example 19 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 17 18 may optionally receiving from the UE an ANQP query including a 3GPP Network Information Element wherein the 3GPP Network Information Element included in the ANQP query provides a request for PLMNs supported by the WLAN and responding to the UE with an ANQP response including a 3GPP Network Information Element wherein the 3GPP Network Information Element included in the ANQP response provides a list of PLMNs supported by the WLAN.

In Example 20 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 17 19 may optionally include receiving from the UE an ANQP query including a trusted WLAN container wherein the trusted WLAN container included in the ANQP query provides network connectivity information to establish a trusted connection between the UE and the EPC via the WLAN and responding to the UE with an ANQP response including a trusted WLAN container wherein the trusted WLAN container included in the ANQP response provides configuration parameters for the UE.

In Example 21 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 17 19 may optionally include transmitting an authentication request to an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server of the EPC receiving from the AAA server an Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP status message and providing an indication to the UE with the results of the authentication request based on the EAP status message.

In Example 22 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 17 21 may optionally include securing the connection with the UE using a security procedure defined by one or more standards from the IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 23 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 17 22 may optionally include establishing IP connectivity with the UE from the EPC includes receiving a DHCP request from the UE sending an IP request to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW of the EPC receiving a IP response from the PDN GW including an IP address allocated by the PDN GW and sending to the UE in a DHCP response message the IP address allocated by the PDN GW.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 17 23 may optionally include establishing a trusted connection between a second UE and the EPC by receiving an ANQP query from the second UE including additional connection parameters performing a tunneling procedure to establish a second tunnel with the EPC the tunneling procedure using the additional connection parameters received from the second UE and connection parameters from the EPC network information exchanged with the UE transmitting an ANQP response to the second UE including an IP address for the second UE and relaying communications between the second UE and the EPC via the second tunnel with the EPC.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is intended to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

