---

title: Method and system for sharing portable voice profiles
abstract: An embodiment of the present invention provides a speech recognition engine that utilizes portable voice profiles for converting recorded speech to text. Each portable voice profile includes speaker-dependent data, and is configured to be accessible to a plurality of speech recognition engines through a common interface. A voice profile manager receives the portable voice profiles from other users who have agreed to share their voice profiles. The speech recognition engine includes speaker identification logic to dynamically select a particular portable voice profile, in real-time, from a group of portable voice profiles. The speaker-dependent data included with the portable voice profile enhances the accuracy with which speech recognition engines recognize spoken words in recorded speech from a speaker associated with a portable voice profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990077&OS=08990077&RS=08990077
owner: Reqall, Inc.
number: 08990077
owner_city: Moffett Field
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120614
---
This is a CONTINUATION of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 536 117 filed Sep. 28 2006 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 214 208 incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to speaker dependent speech recognition systems. More particularly the invention relates to an architecture for sharing customized portable voice profiles for use with varied speech recognition engines amongst different applications and users.

Speech recognition systems which can generally be defined as a set of computer implemented algorithms for converting a speech or voice signal into words are used in a wide variety of applications and contexts. For instance speech recognition technology is utilized in dictation applications for converting spoken words into structured or unstructured documents. Phones and phone systems global positioning systems GPS and other special purpose computers often utilize speech recognition technology as a means for inputting commands e.g. command and control applications .

Speech recognition systems can be characterized by their attributes e.g. speaking mode speaking style enrollment or vocabulary which are often determined by the particular context of the speech recognition application. For example speech recognition systems utilized in dictation applications often require that the user of the application enroll or provide a speech sample to train the system. Such systems are generally referred to as speaker dependent systems. Speaker dependent speech recognition systems support large vocabularies but only one user. On the other hand speaker independent speech recognition systems support many users without any enrollment or training but accurately recognize only a limited vocabulary e.g. a small list of commands or ten digits . Speech recognition systems utilized in dictation applications may be designed for spontaneous and continuous speech whereas speech recognition systems utilized for recognizing voice commands e.g. voice dialing on mobile phones may be designed to recognize isolated words.

Because speech recognition systems generally tend to be customized for use in a particular context or application any user specific location specific or customized data e.g. speaker dependent enrollment training data or user specific settings that are generated for use with one speech recognition system or application are not easily shared with another speech recognition system or application. For example many speech recognition systems in use with dictation applications can be improved over time with active or passive training. As errors are identified and corrected the speech recognition system can learn from the identified errors and prevent such errors from reoccurring. Other speech recognition systems benefit from user specific settings such as settings that indicate the gender of the speaker nationality of the speaker age of the speaker etc. Unfortunately such data enrollment training data and user settings are not easily shared amongst speech recognition systems and or applications.

In addition speaker dependent speech recognition systems do not work well in multi user or conversational settings where more than one person may contribute to a speech recording or voice signal. For instance a typical speaker dependent speech recognition system is invoked with a particular voice or user profile. Accordingly that particular user profile is used to analyze the entire voice recording. If a recording includes recorded speech from multiple users a conventional speaker dependent speech recognition system uses only one user profile to analyze the recorded speech of all of the speakers.

Furthermore even if a particular speech recognition system is configured to use multiple voice profiles there does not exist a system or method for easily locating and retrieving the necessary voice profiles. For example if a particular audio recording includes speech from persons A B C D E and F where person A is the user of the speech recognition system then it is necessary for the speech recognition system to locate and retrieve the voice profiles from persons A B C D E and F. It may be impractical to expect person A the user of the speech recognition system to ask each of persons B C D E and F to provide a voice profile particularly if person A is not acquainted with one or more persons. For example if person A is directly acquainted with persons B and C but only indirectly acquainted with persons D E and F then it may be awkward or inconvenient to ask persons D E and F for their voice profiles. Moreover as the number of people in the particular group increases the time and energy required to gain access to the voice profiles becomes prohibitive. Consequently there exists a need for an improved architecture for sharing voice profiles.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a speech recognition engine that utilizes portable voice profiles for converting recorded speech to text. Each portable voice profile includes speaker dependent data and is configured to be accessible to a plurality of speech recognition engines through a common interface. A voice profile manager facilitates the exchange of portable voice profiles between members of groups who have agreed to share their voice profiles. The speech recognition engine includes speaker identification logic to dynamically select a particular portable voice profile in real time from a group of portable voice profiles. The speaker dependent data included with the portable voice profile enhances the accuracy with which speech recognition engines recognize spoken words in recorded speech from a speaker associated with a portable voice profile.

In another aspect the present invention provides a means for sharing portable voice profiles amongst a distributed system of speech recognition devices. Accordingly each speech recognition device includes a voice profile manager that communicates with other devices to facilitate the exchange of voice profiles.

Reference will now be made in detail to an implementation consistent with the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like parts. Although discussed with reference to these illustrations the present invention is not limited to the implementations illustrated therein. Hence the reader should regard these illustrations merely as examples of embodiments of the present invention the full scope of which is measured only in terms of the claims following this description.

Referring now to a block diagram of a speech recognition system consistent with an embodiment of the invention is shown. The speech recognition system includes a speech recognition engine and speaker identification logic . In addition the speech recognition system includes a group manager and a local voice profile manager . The speech recognition system is configured to work with a variety of speech enabled applications through N for example such as a dictation application a telecommunications application e.g. voice over Internet Protocol or VoIP application or any of a variety of command and control applications e.g. voice dialing or GPS control . In addition the speech recognition system is configured to work with multiple portable voice profiles through N . As will be described in greater detail below one function of the group manager is to facilitate defining or selecting groups and exchanging voice profiles with members within the groups.

In one embodiment of the invention the speech recognition system is invoked to work with an active application . The active application may be configured to automatically invoke the speech recognition system or alternatively a user of the active application may manually select to invoke the speech recognition system . The active application may pass one or more parameters to the speech recognition engine such that the speech recognition engine can optimally self configure itself to provide the highest level of accuracy in recognizing speech e.g. spoken words in a voice signal received from or recorded by the active application . The active application parameters may include for example values for such application settings as speaking mode e.g. isolated word or continuous speech or speaking style e.g. read speech or spontaneous speech . In addition the active application may pass one or more output parameters to the speech recognition engine . Alternatively the output parameters may be user definable for example through a user interface not shown of the speech recognition system . The output parameters may determine the format of the output created by the speech recognition engine .

In addition to working with a variety of applications the speech recognition system is configured to work with multiple portable voice profiles through N . Each portable voice profile is associated with a particular user or speaker where the terms user and speaker are used synonymously herein. A portable voice profile includes speaker dependent data such as the acoustic characteristics of a speaker to improve the accuracy with which a compatible speech recognition engine recognizes speech recorded by a particular speaker that is associated with a particular voice profile. In one embodiment of the invention each portable voice profile may include enrollment training data. For example each time a voice profile is used with a particular speech recognition engine the voice profile may be manually or automatically updated as errors are identified and corrected by a speaker. This data can be utilized later to prevent the same type of error or errors from reoccurring. Accordingly unlike a conventional voice profile that includes data derived from use with a single speech recognition engine a voice profile consistent with the invention may include data derived from use with a variety of speech recognition engines and a variety of applications.

In addition to enrollment training data a voice profile may include speaker dependent parameters or settings that are used by various speech recognition systems to improve recognition accuracy. For example such settings may include values to indicate the gender of the speaker nationality of the speaker age of the speaker acoustic characteristics of the speaker characteristics for different speaking environments or any other speaker dependent attributes utilized by speech recognition engines to improve speech recognition accuracy. In addition the speaker dependent parameters may include data used for recognizing text in noisy and or noiseless environments.

In one embodiment of the invention each voice profile has a common interface not shown such that the data included within each voice profile can be easily accessed by a wide variety of speech recognition engines. For example in one embodiment of the invention portable voice profiles and associated data may be accessible through common function calls. Such function calls may be part of an application programming interface API . Accordingly any speech recognition engine implementing the API will have access to the portable voice profiles.

The speaker identification logic in one embodiment of the invention samples the input voice signal and then analyzes the voice signal for the purpose of identifying the speaker. For example the speaker identification logic may compare portions of the voice signal to speaker dependent data from each accessible voice profile to determine whether the analyzed voice has a corresponding portable voice profile accessible. If a particular voice captured in the voice signal is associated with a portable voice profile accessible to the speech recognition engine then the speech recognition engine dynamically invokes the matching portable voice profile e.g. the active voice profile and utilizes data from the matching portable voice profile to enhance or improve the speech recognition process. In contrast to conventional speaker dependent speech recognition engines a speech recognition engine consistent with the invention can dynamically switch between portable voice profiles in real time during the speech recognition process. For example when the speaker identification logic identifies a change in the voice on the recorded voice signal the speaker identification logic can dynamically identify the new voice and match the new voice to a portable voice profile if one exists and is accessible. Accordingly different voice profiles are used for different speakers to improve the accuracy of the speech recognition process.

The group manager facilitates the establishment and management of groups. For example in one embodiment of the invention each user may have his or her own portable voice profile e.g. local voice profile for use with his or her own applications and speech recognition engine or engines. Each user by means of the group manager can establish or select one or more groups and then add other users to the group. For instance if a particular user frequently records conversations with a select group of people and the user would like to share his or her voice profile with those people then the user can establish a group to include those people. Alternatively the user may select to join the group if the group has already been established. In one embodiment of the invention group definitions may be defined by some higher level administrative application such that each user selects from a list of groups that have been predefined. This facilitates common naming of groups so that members can easily find the correct group without establishing multiple names for the same group.

In one embodiment of the invention when a group is initially established it may be designated as a secure group. Accordingly only members who have been authorized to join a secure group may do so. For example a group administrator may use a higher level administrative application e.g. executing on a secure server or a specialized peer device to establish a secure group and to designate the members who are allowed to join the secure group. Accordingly each member s group manager may exchange information via secure cryptographic communication protocols with the higher level administrative application when establishing membership privileges within the group. Once a member has been authenticated and granted access to the secure group information is shared amongst members of the secure group just as with any other group.

After joining a particular group in one embodiment of the invention the group manager enables a user to establish connections or links with other users. A unilateral connection exists when one user has requested a connection with another user and a mutual or bilateral connection exists when both users have requested or in some way acknowledged a desire to be connected. Accordingly access privileges to voice profiles may be dependent upon the type of connection unilateral or bilateral that has been established between two users. In one embodiment a mutual connection establishes the requisite sharing privileges such that each user grants the other access to his or her voice profile by establishing a mutual connection. A unilateral connection may or may not establish the requisite sharing privileges. In one embodiment a user may have to configure access privileges for unilateral connections. For example the group manager may enable a user to grant or deny permission to unilaterally connected users to use or otherwise access his or her local portable voice profile . In addition the group manager may establish the depth to which a user is willing to share his or her voice profile. For example if user A is connected to user B and user B is connected to user C such that user A has only an indirect connection to user C through user B user A may allow his or her voice profile to be shared with user C by setting access privileges to the proper depth. In this case a depth level setting of two would allow user C to access user A s voice profile.

In one embodiment of the invention the local voice profile manager includes the necessary networking communication and routing protocols to discover members of a group. For example after a user has selected a particular group the speech recognition system may use a discovery communication protocol to query other speech recognition systems that have been designated as being in that same group. In this manner the speech recognition system can determine the users that are members of a selected group. Accordingly the system may present or display e.g. in a graphical user interface each member of a particular group for selection by the user. To avoid overburdening network resources discovery protocols may only search to an appropriate depth or level. For example only members of a group within three hops of the user may be identified where a hop represents a nodal connection between the user s device and another user s device. In this manner a user may find all other members of a selected group that are within so many hops of the user.

In addition group membership and or voice profile sharing privileges may be established based on simple set logic or Boolean logic. For example a user s voice profile may automatically be shared with another user or entity if the user s existing group membership satisfies a Boolean valued function. For instance a user may automatically be designated as a member of a particular group if the user is a member of one or more other groups. If user A is a member of Group New York City and group over age 25 then user A may automatically be designated as a member of group Hertz Car Rental. In one embodiment a user may be able to control the extent to which he or she is automatically added to groups through access privileges.

Once a connection with another user is established and the requisite access privileges to the voice profiles have been granted then the local voice profile manager automatically arranges for the exchange of the portable voice profiles. The local voice profile manager may be configured to communicate with remote voice profile managers for the exchange of voice profiles. As used herein local simply means that the voice profile manager is executing on the user s device whereas remote means that the voice profile manager is executing on another user s device. Such communications may occur automatically for example over a network such as the Internet. Accordingly the group manager in conjunction with the local voice profile manager facilitates the automatic sharing of portable voice profiles amongst and between users who have established connections via the group manager. If for example a particular user e.g. user A has established a group with members A B C D and E then user A s profile manager will automatically determine the locations of the other user s e.g. users B C D and E voice profiles. The actual exchange of the voice profiles is facilitated by networking communication and or routing protocols which may be part of the local voice profile manager or another subsystem not shown .

As illustrated in the local portable voice profile is a portable voice profile that is associated with a user owner of the speech recognition engine and applications whereas a remote voice profile is a profile received from another user who does not own and may or may not regularly use the particular speech recognition engine . Accordingly each remote voice profile is retrieved from a remote device or system used by a member of a group with whom the user has established a connection. One advantage of the system is its distributed nature. Information about the various groups can be used to manage the overall load of the distributed system for example by maintaining locally enforced limits of group size. In one embodiment of the invention group size can be calculated by the larger system e.g. by taking into consideration engineering estimates and measurements of the load on the entire system to reflect the availability of computation and network resources.

The local voice profile manager may monitor the age of each remote portable voice profile and N so as to ensure that each remote portable voice profile is kept recent and up to date. For example the local voice profile manager may periodically communicate requests to one or more remote voice profile managers from which a remote voice profile was received requesting the remote voice profile managers to update remote voice profiles if necessary. Accordingly if an update is required a remote voice profile manager may communicate an updated remote portable voice profile to the local voice profile manager .

In one embodiment of the invention voice profiles may be exchanged prior to being invoked by an application or speech recognition engine. Accordingly when a user selects a particular group to be used in connection with recording a conversation through a particular application e.g. a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phone the voice profiles associated with the members of that group are ready to be used. Alternatively voice profiles may be exchanged in real time for example when a conversation is initiated through a particular application or when a recording device is configured and enabled to capture a conversation between two or more users. For example a group may be automatically established when users identify themselves to a call conferencing application which uses a group manager and voice profile manager to retrieve the appropriate voice profiles in eat time.

In one embodiment the group manager and or voice profile manager execute as stand alone applications thereby enabling the establishment of groups and the exchange of voice profiles independent of any particular user application. Alternatively the group manager and or voice profile manager may be integrated with and execute as part of a local user s application. In one embodiment of the invention the group manager and or voice profile manager may be implemented as or integrated with an instant messaging or social networking platform. Accordingly an instant messaging or social networking platform may provide a foundation for the communication and messaging platform such that the functions to facilitate exchanging portable voice profiles is an add on service or component. Accordingly the group manager may be integrated in such a way that group definitions and member selections may be facilitated by means of the instant messaging or social networking platform.

Referring again to in operation the speech recognition engine receives an audio signal from an active application . In one embodiment of the invention the audio signal may be processed in real time or near real time for example as the signal is being captured. Alternatively the audio signal may be captured by the active application and then processed by the speech recognition system at a later time. In either case the speaker identification logic analyzes the audio signal to identify a speaker. Based on the identification of the speaker a voice profile is invoked for processing the audio signal. As illustrated in the speech recognition engine utilizes active voice profile data to enhance the accuracy of the speech recognition. If the speaker identification logic cannot identify the speaker associated with a particular voice for example because there is no portable voice profile accessible for the speaker then default settings or a default voice profile may be used. If during the recognition process the speaker identification logic identifies a voice change then the speaker identification logic attempts to identify the new voice and invokes the associated portable voice profile. In this manner the speech recognition engine continues to process the audio signal and generates an output containing the recognized text of the captured or recorded audio signal.

As illustrated in in one embodiment each speech recognition system may be configured to use only one type of application with its own customized speech recognition engine configured to utilize portable voice profiles. For example the speech recognition systems shown in include a personal computer executing a VoIP phone application a personal computer executing a dictation application a mobile phone executing a voice dialing application a personal digital assistant or PDA executing a voice recorder application and a voice recorder with a voice recording application . Each individual device may have its own customized speech recognition engine. Furthermore each device and application and and respective speech recognition engine may be compatible with portable voice profiles. Therefore in contrast to conventional speech recognition systems a user who has a well developed voice profile which includes data from extensive training with a dictation application e.g. application can use that voice profile with a voice recorder application on a PDA or in any other voice enabled application that is configured to utilize portable voice profiles. Moreover the voice profile can be shared with other users.

In one embodiment of the invention each device may be configured to synchronize with other devices owned by the same user. For example if all of the devices illustrated in are owned by one user any change made to one device may be automatically distributed to other devices. Accordingly if the user has established a group and selected the group s members on one device e.g. personal computer and then later adds a member to the group the change will be distributed to all other devices owned by the user. For example the local voice profile manager of one device may communicate e.g. upload device specific settings and information including group member and voice profile information to another device such as mobile phone or PDA . The communication between devices may occur over a wired connection e.g. Ethernet universal serial bus USB or FireWire or wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth or Wi Fi .

Referring now to a multi user single device environment is shown. In one embodiment of the invention each user e.g. users A B and C generates and develops his or her own voice profile by utilizing the portable voice profile with one or more application and speech recognition engines. In addition each user agrees by means of his or her own local voice profile manager to exchange portable voice profiles with the other users. For example user A may grant users B and C permission to access user A s portable voice profile while user B grants users A and C permission and so on. Accordingly each user s voice profile manager automatically negotiates the exchange of voice profiles between and amongst the users. Consequently user A may utilize his own portable voice profile as well as user B s portable voice profile and user C s portable voice profile on one device such as PDA with a voice recording application.

In a multi user multi device environment is shown. In one embodiment of the invention each user e.g. users A B and C may utilize a communication device with recording and speech recognition capabilities. Accordingly each user s device including user A s personal computer user B s wireless VoIP phone and user C s mobile VoIP phone has a locally stored copy of each user s portable voice profile. Therefore as user B s voice signal is received at user A s personal computer a speech recognition engine executing at user A s personal computer can process the voice signal using user B s portable voice profile. In one embodiment of the invention portable voice profiles are exchanged prior to the initiation of a communication session as described above. Alternatively voice profiles may be exchanged at the time the communication session is initiated.

As discussed briefly above one advantage of the present invention is its distributed architecture. Each device of the overall system need not be aware of the location of every user s profile as each device can query other users devices in the system to Obtain the location and thus the voice profile of another user. Accordingly the system generally has a peer to peer architecture. For example in one embodiment of the invention each voice profile manager may communicate directly with another voice profile manager to exchange voice profiles. In such a peer to peer environment no centralized server is required. It is possible however that a central server or a special purpose peer device facilitates some special functions such as establishing groups enforcing secured group access and monitoring the overall processing and communication load of the system. In an embodiment with a centralized server each user may subscribe to a service and select users who have also subscribed to the service to be members of particular groups. Consequently the particular architecture of the system e.g. peer to peer or client server or the careful integration of the two forms of network topology in a larger system is a design choice and depends on the particular features that are desired. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the advantages of each type of architecture.

In one embodiment of the invention higher level groups may be established and managed by regional centralized servers. For example one or more servers may manage high level groups such as a group including all members residing in a particular city e.g. New York City Los Angeles San Francisco or all members with a particular voice accent such as all members with a New York accent. Lower level groups based on more precise data may be managed by each user s group manager on a peer to peer basis.

A server in an embodiment with a client server system may facilitate added functionality. For example illustrates an example of a client server based speech recognition system consistent with an embodiment of the invention. As illustrated in in one embodiment of the invention a voice profile service provider operates a server coupled to a storage device for storing portable voice profiles. The voice profile service provider s server is connected to a public network such as the Internet. A user such as user D may utilize a conventional web browser executing on a computer to access a web server operated by the voice profile service provider . Accordingly user D may establish anew voice profile with the voice profile service provider by requesting a new voice profile in which case the voice profile services provider may prompt user D to input information and or provide a voice sample. Alternatively user D may upload an existing portable voice profile that user D has developed with an existing speech recognition system.

After user D has provided the voice profile service provider with a portable voice profile user D may select to share his portable voice profile with a variety of subscribers e.g. subscribers and . For example a subscriber may be a business entity that subscribes to a service offered by the voice profile service provider . By subscribing to the service the business entity is granted access to users voice profiles which can be used within the business entity s call center to improve speech recognition accuracy when a user e.g. user D places a call to the subscriber s call center. As illustrated in when user D places a call to the call center operated by subscriber a speech recognition engine operated by subscriber can process user D s voice signal using user D s portable voice profile which was received by the subscriber from the voice profile service provider .

In one embodiment of the invention a subscriber retrieves portable voice profiles when a call is initiated. For example the subscriber may request the user to enter a telephone number or some other information suitable for identification upon which the subscriber can issue a request for the voice profile associated with the identification information. Alternatively the subscriber may utilize caller identification information communicated to the call center as part of the communication session. In any case the subscriber may issue a request to the voice profile service provider for the user s voice profile after the user has provided the identifying information.

In another embodiment of the invention a subscriber may store voice profiles locally. When storing voice profiles locally the subscriber may implement a mechanism for automatically updating a user s portable voice profile as it changes over time. For example the subscriber may periodically poll the voice profile service provider to determine whether a particular voice profile has been updated or otherwise changed. The voice profile service provider may automatically communicate updates to the subscriber .

The foregoing description of various implementations of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise form or forms disclosed. A speech recognition system consistent with an embodiment of the invention may take one of several form factors. Furthermore it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present invention may find practical application in a variety of alternative contexts that have not explicitly been addressed herein. Finally the illustrative processing steps performed by a computer implemented program e.g. instructions may be executed simultaneously or in a different order than described above and additional processing steps may be incorporated. The invention may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. Software may be both object oriented and non object oriented. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

