---

title: Acquiring structured user data using composer interface having input fields corresponding to acquired structured data
abstract: A social networking system obtains specific structured data about a user via a composer interface having textual content with incomplete portions and input fields corresponding to the incomplete potions. The input fields map to data fields in the user's profile and are selected based on the social networking system's need for the information associated with the data fields.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436687&OS=09436687&RS=09436687
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09436687
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120709
---
This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to acquiring structured data about users of a social networking system using a composer interface with input fields for receiving the structured data about a user.

Social networking systems aggregate information about users and their relationships to provide a more personalized user experience. Information about the users is often self reported e.g. information about the user s interests activities and the nature of their relationships with other users . Additional information about users and their relationships with other users also may be collected by the social networking service such as the number frequency and directionality of interactions between users and the various types of interactions which may occur between users just to name a few. Information about users their relationships and interests is valuable both to users of social networking services including advertisers who may wish to market products using certain viral marketing campaigns that utilize this information and to administrators of the social networking service wishing to develop a more personalized experience for their users. Even though a social networking system may collect and in some cases infer information about its users the social networking system may require certain information about its users in order to better understand its users. Conventional systems lack a mechanism for acquiring data from a user via a composer interface that includes input fields chosen based on the systems data needs.

A social networking system obtains specific structured data about a user via a composer interface having textual content with incomplete portions and input fields corresponding to the incomplete potions. The input fields map to data fields in the user s profile and are selected based on the social networking system s need for the information associated with the data fields.

In one embodiment to determine what information to acquire from a user the system analyzes the user s profile and determines a score for each data field in the user s profile. The score for a data field may be based on the value to the social networking system of having information for the data field. The value of a data field may be based on projected revenue generated from using the information projected increase in user engagement from using the information the cost of displacing other content the value of other information that may be determined as a result of obtaining the information associated with the data field or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the score for a data filed is based in part on the probability of getting a response from the user. The probability of getting a response from the user may be based on the user s historical response rate the historical response rate of the user s connections or a combination thereof. A data field is selected based on its score and an incomplete phrase designed to collect information associated with the data field is selected. For example the phrase I eating at the service is generally and the food is usually may be selected to collect information for a data field that stores information about the user s dining activity or preferences. A composer interface having the incomplete phrase and input fields corresponding to the incomplete portions of the phrase is sent to the user. In some embodiments one or more of the input fields may only accept certain categories of words. For example a particular input field may accept only a noun verb adverb or adjective. In some embodiments one or more of the input fields may only accept certain categories of information such as names of people places things or concepts. The user completes the incomplete phrase by providing input to the input fields. By completing the phrase the user provides information to the social networking system that is related to the selected data field. Information based on the user s input to the composer interface is stored in the user s profile and associated with the selected data field.

The figures depict various embodiments of the described methods and system and are for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the methods and systems illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the methods and systems described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Users of social networking system can provide information describing them which is stored as user profiles. For example users can provide their age gender geographical location education history employment history and the like. The information provided by users may be used by the social networking system to direct information to the user. For example the social networking system may recommend social groups events and potential friends to a user. A social networking system may also enable users to explicitly express interest in a concept such as celebrities hobbies sports teams books music and the like. These interests may be used in a myriad of ways including targeting advertisements and personalizing the user experience on the social networking system by showing relevant stories about other users of the social networking system based on shared interests.

A social graph includes nodes connected by edges that are stored on a social networking system. Nodes include users and objects of the social networking system such as web pages embodying concepts and entities and edges connect the nodes. Edges represent a particular interaction between two nodes such as when a user expresses an interest in a news article shared by another user about America s Cup. The social graph may record interactions between users of the social networking system as well as interactions between users and objects of the social networking system by storing information in the nodes and edges that represent these interactions. Custom graph object types and graph action types may be defined by third party developers as well as administrators of the social networking system to define attributes of the graph objects and graph actions. For example a graph object for a movie may have several defined object properties such as a title actors directors producers year and the like. A graph action type such as purchase may be used by a third party developer on a website external to the social networking system to report custom actions performed by users of the social networking system. In this way the social graph may be open enabling third party developers to create and use the custom graph objects and actions on external websites.

Third party developers may enable users of the social networking system to express interest in web pages hosted on websites external to the social networking system. These web pages may be represented as page objects in the social networking system as a result of embedding a widget a social plug in programmable logic or code snippet into the web pages such as an iFrame. Any concept that can be embodied in a web page may become a node in the social graph on the social networking system in this manner. As a result users may interact with many objects external to the social networking system that are relevant to a keyword or keyword phrase such as Justin Bieber. Each of the interactions with an object may be recorded by the social networking system as an edge object. Enabling third party developers to define custom object types and custom action types is described further in Structured Objects and Actions on a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 13 239 340 filed on Sep. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Even though a social networking system may collect and in some cases infer information about its users the social networking system may want certain information about its users in order to better understand the users. Using this information the social networking system may provide a user with a more personalized experience. The social networking system determines information to acquire from a user that would optimize a goal of the system and generates a composer interface for acquiring the determined information. The composer interface prompts the user to complete one or more phrases that are designed to obtain information about the user.

A user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via a network. The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system .

The external system includes a webpage with a widget that includes instructions for communicating with the social networking system and or the user device . The widget may include instructions that cause a user device to obtain a composer interface from the social networking system and include the composer interface in a webpage that is sent to a user.

Using the above methods a social networking system may obtain missing or updated information about a user. For example a social networking system may learn more about a user s activities hobbies education history and work history. A social networking system may also confirm recent changes to a user s personal life that have been inferred by the social networking system such as an engagement birth of a child moving across the country graduating from college and starting a new job can be collected and inferred. Using this information a social networking system may create a more personalized experience for the user. For example a social networking system may present statistics about a user s activities select new stories for the user s newsfeed that better match the user s interests and activities or select better targeted advertising.

The communication network s can be any wired or wireless local area network LAN and or wide area network WAN such as an intranet an extranet or the Internet. It is sufficient that the communication network provides communication capability between the user devices and the social networking system . In some embodiments the communication network uses the HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP and the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP to transmit information between devices or systems. HTTP permits the user devices to access various resources available via the communication network . The various embodiments of the invention however are not limited to the use of any particular protocol.

The user devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a MICROSOFT WINDOWS compatible operating system OS APPLE OS X and or a LINUX distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID.

The external system includes one or more web servers including one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking website is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content. In some embodiments the web pages include a widget that provides instructions to request a composer interface from the social networking system. For example if the user clicks on a link to play a song on the external system the widget provides instructions to a browser application on the user device that is rendering the webpage to send a request to the social networking system for a composer interface for the user. The request may include an identifier for the user.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more user devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the user devices for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. The user can send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content database . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native user device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS and BLACKBERRY OS.

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates an action log with information about user actions that users have given informed consent to collect. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other user sending a message to the other user uploading an image reading a message from the other user viewing content associated with the other user attending an event posted by another user among others. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well.

An action log may be used by a social networking system to track users actions on the social networking system as well as external websites that communicate information back to the social networking system . As mentioned above users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device. The action log may also include user actions on external websites. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells luxury shoes at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system. Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this luxury shoe reseller may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including viewing histories advertisements that were clicked on purchasing activity and buying patterns.

The Application Programming Interface API server allows one or more user devices to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API server may also allow user devices to send information to social networking system by calling APIs. A user device in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API server receives the API request. The API server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API server communicates to the user device via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections and communicates the collected data to the user device . In another embodiment an external system that hosts web pages communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems . In some embodiments the API server includes functions to enable a third party application to enter user data into input fields of a composer interface.

The user profile database stores user profile objects. User profile objects include declarative profile information about a user inferred or implicit information about a user from the user s actions on the social networking system and outside of the social networking system information about the user s activities and interests and information about the user s friends or connections in the social networking system. A user s profile information stored in a profile object includes biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user s profile object includes various data fields for storing information items about a user. Each data field may store a different type of information about a user. Examples of the information stored by the data fields include phone numbers instant message screen names addresses websites current city hometown gender birthday names of family members languages spoke a description education history work history religious affiliations political views favorite quotes favorite sports favorite foods favorite books favorites movies interests activities names of pets information about friends and the like.

A profile object for a user may also include the user s affinity scores for objects in the social networking system . An affinity score measures or indicates a user s affinity for one an object in the social networking system . In one embodiment affinity scores of users for an object may be determined by the social networking system based on the user s interactions with the specified object over time. In particular affinity scores of the users for an object may be determined based on edge objects containing information describing the interactions between the user and object. Example embodiments of computing affinity scores are described in a related application Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference. The user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. The user profile database also maintains references to the actions stored in an action log and performed on objects in the content database .

The edge database stores edge objects. Edge objects connect objects in the social graph and include information about the viewing user s interactions with other objects on the social networking system such as clicking on a link shared with the viewing user sharing photos with other users of the social networking system posting a status update message on the social networking system and other actions that may be performed on and off the social networking system . Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. The edge database stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge database in one embodiment. For example a user that plays multiple songs from Lady Gaga s album Born This Way may have multiple edge objects for the songs but only one edge object for Lady Gaga. Edge objects may also include information about user interactions outside of the social networking system . For example interaction information may be collected from third party systems e.g. sites and applications that use social plug ins that enables users to interact with social content from the social networking system .

The content database stores content objects. A content object may include any type of object on the social networking system such as a page post a status update a photo a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business and so on. Content objects include objects created by users of the social networking system such as status updates that may be associated with photo objects location objects and other users photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system such as events pages and other users and applications installed on the social networking system . In some embodiments the content objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system .

The phrase database stores incomplete phrases or phrasal templates. An incomplete phrase or phrasal template includes a sequence of text that includes one or more empty or missing portions that may be filled by words or numbers to produce an individual phrase. In some embodiments input restriction information is stored with an incomplete phrase that specifies input restrictions for the incomplete portions in the incomplete phrase. The input restriction information for an input field specifies what types of information an input field may accept as valid input. In some embodiments an incomplete phrase is associated with one or more user profile data fields. For example the phrase My favorite actor from the movie is may be associated with a data field that stores information about a user s movie preferences and a data field that stores information about the user s favorite actors or public figures.

The scoring module determines what information to collect from a user. More specifically the scoring module determines a score or metric for the data fields associated with a user s profile and selects one or more of the data fields based on the determined scores. A score for a data field measures the social networking systems need for the type of information associated with the data field. For example when the system selects a data field for storing a user s telephone number the system has a need for the user s telephone number.

To determine what information about the user to acquire the scoring module analyzes the information stored by the social networking system for the user. The user s information comprises profile objects edge objects and content objects from the user profile object database content object database and edge object database. In particular the scoring module identifies the data fields and information stored by the data fields in the user s profile. The information for the user may include a user s declarative profile information which is information provided to the social networking by the user. The stored information for the user may include information that the social networking system inferred about the user. For example the social networking system may infer a user s interests in a music artist based on the user s activities on or off the social networking system such as playing songs by the artist or discussing the artist. The information for the user may include information about the user s activities on the social networking and or on external systems operated by third parties. For example information describing actions of the user on a third party website may be sent to the social networking system and stored in an edge object. The information for the user may include information about a user s connections. For example the information may describe events a user s connection went to or where their friends went to school. In some embodiments information associated with a data field includes a timestamp of when the information was obtained or created. In some embodiments the information associated with a data field is associated with one or more geographic locations. The locations may include a location of where the information was acquired from or the locations of one or more users associated with the information.

In some embodiments the scoring module identifies data fields in the user s profile that are not associated with any information or are out of date. Stated in another way the scoring module analyzes a user s profile to identify missing information or out of date information. The information associated with a data field may be out of date when it has not been updated for a predefined amount of time. In some embodiments one or more of the data fields include a time limit that indicates when a data field should be updated. The time limit for a data field may depend on the type of the information stored by the data field. For example a user s hobbies may have a shorter time limit than the user s hometown since the user is more likely to change their hobbies. In some embodiments the information stored in a data field is given a freshness score that is decayed over time by a decay rate. The decay rate for a data field may depend on the type of information stored by the data field.

The scoring module determines a data acquisition score for each data field in a set of data fields. In some embodiments the set of data fields corresponds to a set of data fields identified as out of date or as having missing information. A data acquisition score measures the social networking systems need for the type of information stored by a data field. In some embodiments the scoring module stores the data acquisition score for a respective data field as a value pair. The value pair includes information identifying a data field and its corresponding data acquisition score. The scoring module may store a set of value pairs for a user or include the value pairs with the user s profile.

In some embodiments a data acquisition score for a data field is determined at least in part on the value to the social networking system of the type of information associated with the data field. As used herein the value of a data field is the value of the type of information stored by the data field. In some embodiments the scoring module stores a table with values for each data field. In some embodiments the value of the information associated with a data field corresponds to a goal of the social networking site including a projected growth generated by using the information projected revenue generated from using the information projected increase in user engagement generated from using the information and the projected increase to a user s social score using the information or any combination thereof. In some embodiments a social score measures a user s social influence. The user s social score may be based on the number of connections the user has the number of followers the user has the average number of users who comment on the user s posts or any combination thereof. The value of the information associated with a data field may be based in part on the cost associated with displacing other content in order to obtain the information for the data field. For example in order to obtain the information the system may display a composer interface which may displace social content or advertisements. The value of the information associated with a data field may be based in part on the likelihood that receiving the information for the data field will lead to additional information. For example a user s favorite movies may reveal the categories of movies the user is most interested in or the actors or actresses the user is a fan of. The value of a data field may be based in part on the value of the information in newsfeed stories or in sponsored stories. A sponsored story comprises an advertising message that communicates a message about at least one user action.

In some embodiments the data acquisition score for a data field is based in part on the probability that the user will provide input to a composer interface. Stated in another way the data acquisition score for a data field may be based in part on the probability of getting a response from the user. In some embodiments the scoring module stores a table with response probabilities for each data field or a single response probability for the user. In some embodiments the scoring module determines the probability of the user will supply the information associated with a data field. The scoring module may determine a single response probability for the user or a response probability for the user for each data field. The probability of getting a response may be based on a machine learning model. A machine learning algorithm observes patterns in data and adjusts its own behavior in order to improve its own performance. Stated in another way a machine learning algorithm improves its functionality based on what it experienced in the past. In some embodiments the probability of getting a response from a user for a data field is based on the user s historical response rate. For example a user may respond to inquiries 30 of the time. The historical response rate may be a general response rate or specific to certain categories of information. For example a user may be more likely to provide information about their interests than their work history. In some embodiments the probability of getting a response for a data field is based on a user s connection s historical rate. In some embodiments the probability of getting a response from a user is based on the likelihood that the user will complete a series of phrases. In some cases it may be more effective to obtain the information for a data field by presenting the user with a series of phrases to complete. For example a user may be more inclined to complete the phrase my My favorite actor is after completing the phrase My favorite movie is. 

In some embodiments the data acquisition score for a data field is determined based on the value of the information and the probability of getting a response from the user. The data acquisition score for a data field may be the product of the value of the information associated with the data field and the probability of getting a response from the user.

In some embodiments the score of a data field is decayed based on a decay rate associated with the data field. For example the score for the user s interests may decay faster than the score for the user s education background since a user s interests are more likely to change than the user s educational background.

The selection module selects one or more incomplete phrases based on the scores generated by the scoring module and generates a composer interface having the selected one or more completed phrases. In particular the selection module retrieves one or more value pairs for the user selects one or more incomplete phrases based on the value pairs and generates a composer interface with the one or more selected incomplete phrases. As discussed above a value pair includes information identifying a data field and its corresponding score. In some embodiments the scoring module sends the selection module a predefined number of the value pairs having the highest scores or value pairs having scores above a predefined threshold. The selection module selects one or more incomplete phrases from the phrase database based on the received value pairs for the data fields. More specifically the selection module may select the value pair from a plurality of value pairs that have the highest associated score and select one or more phrases associated with the data field of the selected value pair. For example the selection module may select one or more phrases that are designed to obtain information about the user s favorite books when the data field for storing information about the user s favorite books has the highest score. As discussed above the phrases stored in the phrase database are associated with data fields.

The selection module generates a composer interface having textual content from the selected phrases and input fields corresponding to the incomplete portions of the phrases. The position of the input fields corresponds to the incomplete portions of the incomplete phrases. For example if an incomplete phrase for the composer interface is I typically go the gym times a month the composer interface may include an input field between the words gym and times. 

In some embodiments the selection module includes an input restriction information with one or more the input fields. As discussed above the incomplete phrases are associated with input restriction information for the incomplete portions of the phrases. The input restriction information for an input field specifies the type of information the input field may accept as valid input. In some embodiments an input field may only accept certain category of words. For example an input field may only accept nouns verbs adverbs adverbs or adjectives. In some embodiments an input field may only accept numbers. Using the previous example the input field between the words gym and times may only accept input that comprises a number or text corresponding to a number. In some embodiments an input field may accept a name or property of objects maintained by the social networking system. For example an input field may only accept names of people places things or concepts. This way the input to an input field may be restricted to certain categories of information maintained by the social networking system.

In some embodiments the composer interface includes a description of the input restriction for each input field. The descriptions help signal to the user what types of input they can provide to the input fields. The descriptions are displayed to a user when the composer interface is presented to the user.

In some embodiments the selection module generates a series of composer interfaces to be provided to the user where each composer interface includes one or more of the selected phrases. The series of composer interfaces may be configured obtain a certain category of information from the user. For example each composer interface in the series may prompt the user to fill out a phrase about the user s connections. The composer interfaces in the series may be displayed in a sequence. For example the second composer interface in the series may be displayed after the user finishes providing input to the first composer interface in the series.

The data acquisition module determines how where and when to obtain a user s information. More specifically the data acquisition module determines how where and when to display the one or more generated composer interface to the user. The data acquisition module may provide a composer interface to the user s device when the user is viewing a page from the social networking system. In some embodiments the data acquisition module includes a composer interface in the user s newsfeed as a news story. In some embodiments the composer interface is displayed to the user in response to an action by the user with respect to a news story. For example the composer interface may be displayed when the user comments on shares dismisses or hides or likes a news story. A user may like a news story by selecting a button or graphical user interface element associated with the story. The composer interface may be provided to the user when the user views pages from a third party website or external system. In particular the data acquisition module may respond to requests from widgets embedded in third party web pages for composer interfaces.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module provides a composer interface to the user in response to action or activity of a connection of the user. When a connection of the user completes the phrase of a composer interface the user may be prompted to add the same information to the user s profile. For example if a connection of the user completes a phrase The best dish at restaurant is the user may be prompted have the completed phrase added to their own profile. The news story describing the connection s activity may include a link that allows the user to add information related to the connection s activity to their profile.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module includes a composer interface in an advertisement in the user s profile page in a third party application in an interface for inputting a status message or in an interface for uploading content such as photos and videos. In some embodiments a composer interface may be displayed along with social networking content such as photos videos news stories suggestions status messages links posted by users group pages event pages pages for public figures pages for organizations and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system. In some embodiments the social networking content and advertisements are selected in a way that optimizes a goal discussed above. For each social networking content item and advertisement the social networking system may maintain a value or score for each goal. Scoring and selecting social networking content items and advertisements in a way that optimizes a goal of a social networking system is discussed further in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 645 481 entitled Selection and Presentation of Related Social Networking System Content and Advertisements filed on Dec. 22 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module provides a composer interface to the user in response to an action or activity by the user that occurs on or off the social networking system. Stated in another way the composer interface may be displayed to a user in response to the user performing an activity that causes an edge object in the social graph to be updated or created. The composer interface may be displayed to the user when the users checks in to a restaurant posts a status message updated sends a message to another user plays a song plays a video plays a game views a profile and the like. For example when the user checks into a restaurant the user may be presented with a composer interface that prompts the user to complete a phrase about what food they typically order at that restaurant. In this case the selection module selects phrases that are designed to obtain information relating to the user s dining preferences.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module provides the user with a composer interface that prompts the user to complete a phrase about one or more of the user s friends or connections in the social networking system. For example the composer interface may prompt the user to complete one or more phrases about where the user s friend s education history. This way the social networking system may use the composer interfaces to obtain information about the user s friends.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module includes one or more completed phrases from connections of the user in a composer interface. The one or more completed phrases are completed versions of the one or more incomplete phrases in the composer interface. This way the user can see how their friends completed to the one or more incomplete phrases in the composer interface. The completed phrases may be displayed before the user enters input into the composer interface in order to encourage the user to complete the one or more incomplete phrases in the composer interface. The completed phrases may be displayed after the user completes the one or more incomplete phrases in the composer interface in order not to influence the results.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module sends the composer interface to a user device or an external system. A third party website may insert a set of instructions into one of its web pages that executes when the web page is viewed by a user. The set of instructions causes a frame to be created within the web page that contains content pulled directly from the social networking system e.g. an iframe . The set of instructions is discussed further in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 764 928 entitled Personalizing a Web Page Outside of a Social Networking System with Content from the Social Networking System filed on Apr. 21 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module sends a notification to a user s device containing the composer interface. In some embodiments the notification is pushed to the user s device. In some embodiments the notification is displayed to the user when the user views a page provided by the social networking system or an external system.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module provides the user with a feedback questionnaire after the user completes input to a composer interface. The user may complete input to a composer by select a graphical user interface element e.g. a submit button . The feedback questionnaire asks the user to rate or comment on the composer interface including the one or more incomplete phrases in the composer interface.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module enables a user to choose which phrases they want to complete. The data acquisition module may provide the user with a list of selectable options that correspond to incomplete phrases. The options may include a description of an incomplete phrase a description of the type of information the incomplete phrase is trying to collect the text of the incomplete phrase an example of a completed version of the incomplete phrase or any combination thereof. This enables the user to select which incomplete phrase they would like to complete.

The data acquisition module may send a composer interface to a user device via one or more communication channels. The communication channels may comprise one or more different information delivery methods comprising a stream a feed a wall post an email communication a comment on a posted content item a mobile application a note a third party application a text message an iframe a third party website a toolbar plug in a dashboard a notification an advertising communication channel a discussion board or any other communication channel that exists or is associated with the social networking service. A discussion board may reside on many different types of objects such as an event a group a fan page and a photo album just to name a few. Communication channels are discussed further in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 149 filed on Oct. 16 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The object suggestion module helps a user provide structured data to the input fields of the composer interface. More specifically the object suggestion module receives input entered by a user into a respective input field of the composer interface identifies graph objects based on the received input and provides the user with a list of selectable options that correspond to the identified graph objects. For example if the user enters star the object suggestion module may identify objects matching star or objects having the prefix of star such as Starbucks Star Trek or Star Search. The identified objects do not need to have the input as a prefix and may be related to the input. For example when the user enters star the object suggestion module may provide the suggestion of coffee or telescopes. The list of selectable options may be presented to the user as the user provides input to the composer interface. For example after the user types sta the object suggestion module may provide the user with a list of objects corresponding to the graph objects of star Starbucks and Star Trek. In some embodiments the list of selectable options are filtered based on the restrictions for the input field the user is providing input to. For example if the user enters the input star into an input field and the input field only accepts names of coffee brands the object suggestion module presents the user a selectable option corresponding to Starbucks. In this example the object suggestion module does not present the user with the selectable option of Star Trek. 

The response module receives and stores the structured data entered by the user into the input fields of the composer interface. More specifically the response module receives the user s input identifies data fields in the user s profile associated with the input fields of the composer interface and stores information that is based on the user s input. The structured data may include information identifying one or more data fields associated with a user. In some embodiments the response module receives input from a third party application that entered input into the composer interface on the user s behalf. As discussed above the API server enables third party applications to enter user data into a composer interface on behalf of the user.

In this process a user profile for a user of a social networking system is maintained . The user profile has a plurality of data fields for storing information items about the user. At least one of the data fields is associated with an information item about the user. The information items may correspond to or include information from profile objects edge objects and content objects.

The value of the data fields of the user profile are determined . In some embodiments the value of a data field is based on the value to the social networking system of having information items associated with the data field. In some embodiments the value of the information item associated with a data field is based on projected revenue from using the information item. The social networking system may generate revenue from the information item by using the information item in a sponsored story or using the information item to determine which advertisements to display to the user. In some embodiments the value of the information item associated with a data field is based on a projected increase in user engagement from using the information item. The information item may be used to create personalized content for the user or to select content to display to the user that the user is likely interested in. In some embodiments the value of the information item associated with a data field is based on the cost of displacing social content. In order to obtain the information item associated with a data field the social networking system displays a composer interface which displaces other content. The cost of the displaced content may be taken into account with the value of the information item. When the displaced content is an advertisement the cost of the displaced content may correspond to the revenue lost from not displaying the advertisement. When the displaced content is social content the cost of the displaced content may corresponds to projected loss in user engagement.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module selects a set of candidate data fields from the user s profile and determines a score for each of the candidate data fields. The candidate data fields may be data fields that are not associated with an information item for the user or have out of date information about the user.

In some embodiments the data acquisition module determines a score for each candidate data field in the set of candidate data fields based on a function evaluating a value to the social networking system of having an information item of the candidate data field. In some embodiments the score for a candidate data field is based at least in part on the value to the social networking system of the information item associated with the data field. In some embodiments the score for a candidate data field is based at least in part on a probability of getting a response from the user. The probability of getting a response from the user may be based on a historical response rate for the user. The probability of getting a response from the user may be based on a historical response rate for connections of the user.

A data field is selected based on the determined value of having an information item for the user associated with the selected data field. In some embodiments the data field associated with the highest value is selected. In some embodiments a predefined number of data fields having the highest associated values are selected. In some embodiments data fields having an associated value above a threshold value are selected.

In some embodiments the data field is selected from a set of candidate data fields that each has an associated score. As discussed above the candidate data fields may be data fields that have missing or out of date information. The score for a data field may be based on the value of the information item associated with the data field and the probability of getting a response from the user. The data field may be selected from the set of candidate data fields based on the scores associated with each of the candidate data fields. Stated in another way the selected data field may be selected based on its associated score.

Textual content related to the selected data field is selected . The textual content has an incomplete portion. Stated in another way one or more incomplete phrases related to the selected data field are selected. The incomplete phrases are designed to obtain information from the user related to the type of information stored by the selected data field. As discussed above each incomplete phrase maintained by the social networking system is associated with one or more user profile data fields.

A composer interface is generated that comprises textual content having an incomplete portion and an input field corresponding to the incomplete portion. The textual content may be an incomplete phrase and the input field corresponds to the incomplete portion of the incomplete phrase. In some embodiments the composer interface includes multiple incomplete phrases and multiple input fields. The textual content of the incomplete phrase is related to the type of information the selected data field stores. For example if the selected data field stores information about the user s educational history the textual content of the incomplete phrase may be an incomplete phrase about what the user studied in college. In some embodiments the input field may only accept certain categories of words. For example an input field may restrict input to nouns verbs adverbs or adjectives. In some embodiments the input field may only accept certain categories of information. For example the input field may only accept names of people places or things. By entering a valid input into the input field the user completes the incomplete phrase and provides at least a portion of an information item to the social networking system.

The generated composer interface is sent for display to the user. In some embodiments the composer interface is sent to the user in a news story and displayed in the user s newsfeed. In some embodiments the generated composer interface is sent to the user in response to an action by the user with respect to a news story. As discussed above the composer interface may be provided to the user when the user comments on shares dismisses or hides or likes a news story.

In some embodiments input entered by the user into the input field of the generated composer interface is received. For example the user s input may be sent to the social networking system as the user enters each character of the input. Graph objects are identified based on the received input and a list of selectable options corresponding to the identified objects is sent to the user. A user selection of an option from the list of options may be received and structured data for the graph object corresponding to the selected option is entered into the input field.

Structured data entered by the user using the input field of the generated composer interface is received . The structured data may be received from a user device or a third party website. In some embodiments the received structured data includes information identifying the selected candidate data field or one or more data fields in the user s profile.

The received structured data is stored in the user s profile. In some embodiments an information item associated with the selected candidate data field is determined based on the received structured data. The received structured data may be added to an existing item or a new information item may be generated. The determined information item associated with the selected data field is stored in the profile for the user.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the systems and methods in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the systems and methods may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the systems and methods may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the systems and methods systems and methods be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the systems and methods are intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

