---

title: Mid-infrared tunable metamaterials
abstract: A mid-infrared tunable metamaterial comprises an array of resonators on a semiconductor substrate having a large dependence of dielectric function on carrier concentration and a semiconductor plasma resonance that lies below the operating range, such as indium antimonide. Voltage biasing of the substrate generates a resonance shift in the metamaterial response that is tunable over a broad operating range. The mid-infrared tunable metamaterials have the potential to become the building blocks of chip based active optical devices in mid-infrared ranges, which can be used for many applications, such as thermal imaging, remote sensing, and environmental monitoring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09018642&OS=09018642&RS=09018642
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09018642
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121217
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 286 560 filed Dec. 15 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 965 659 filed Dec. 10 2010 the benefit of which is hereby claimed and which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electromagnetic metamaterials and in particular to metamaterials that are tunable in the mid infrared portion of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The ability of metamaterials to create artificial electromagnetic properties absent in nature has initiated intense research efforts for applications in frequency selective surfaces sub diffraction imaging cloaking and etc. See S. Linden et al. Magnetic response of metamaterials at 100 terahertz 306 1351 2004 X. Zhang and Z. Liu Superlenses to overcome the diffraction limit 7 435 2008 and J. Valentine et al. An optical cloak made of dielectrics 8 568 2009 . The development of tunable metamaterials which allow for real time tuning of the electromagnetic response is emerging as an important sub topic in this field. Tunable metamaterials have the potential to become the building blocks of chip based active optical devices and as optical switches modulators and phase shifters. A typical way to make such tunable metamaterials is to integrate a natural reconfigurable material in the metamaterial structure and apply an external stimulus to achieve tuning. For example tunable metamaterials have been demonstrated using electrical reorientation in liquid crystals and thermally electrically induced insulator to metal phase transition in vanadium dioxide VO . See D. H. Werner et al. Liquid crystal clad near infrared metamaterials with tunable negative zero positive refractive indices 15 3342 2007 M. J. Dicken et al. Frequency tunable near infrared metamaterials based on VOphase transition 17 18330 2009 T. Driscoll et al. Dynamic tuning of an infrared hybrid metamaterial resonance using vanadium dioxide 93 024101 2008 and T. Driscoll et al. Memory Metamaterials 325 1518 2009 .

Recently active terahertz metamaterials based on variants of split ring resonators SRRs on a doped gallium arsenide GaAs substrate have been realized by dynamically changing the carrier concentration of the underlying semiconductor using an electric bias voltage which effectively tunes the strength of the resonance producing an amplitude modulation effect or a phase modulation. This amplitude modulation is a result of shunting due to the presence of carriers in the doped substrate. See H. T. Chen et al. Active terahertz metamaterial devices 444 597 2006 H. T. Chen et al. A metamaterial solid state terahertz phase modulator 3 148 2009 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 826 504 to Chen et al. However all of these references disclose electrically tunable metamaterials at only terahertz frequencies i.e. 0.1 3 THz .

Therefore a need remains for a metamaterial that is tunable in a higher e.g. infrared spectral range.

The present invention is directed to a tunable metamaterial comprising a doped semiconductor substrate having a large dependence of dielectric function on the carrier concentration and a semiconductor plasma resonance lying below an operating frequency range an array of resonators on the doped semiconductor substrate and an electrical circuit for applying a bias voltage between the doped semiconductor substrate and the resonator array for modulating the carrier concentration of the semiconductor substrate and tuning the resonance of the resonator array over the operating frequency range. In general the resonator array can be tunable over a range of operating frequency range of 100 THz to 15 THz wavelength range of 3 20 m . For example the semiconductor substrate comprises InSb InAs GaAs GaSb GaN or Si that is doped n type. In general the resonator array can comprise a ring like structure with one or multiple splits or a wire like structure in a connected arrangement such as a split ring resonator a cut wire pair or a fishnet like structure that is scalable through most of the short to long infrared. The metamaterial can further comprise a gate dielectric layer such as HfOor SiO between the resonator array and the doped semiconductor substrate.

The mid infrared tunable metamaterials have the potential to become the building blocks of chip based active optical devices in mid infrared ranges which can be used for many applications such as thermal imaging remote sensing and environmental monitoring.

As shown in the resonance of a SRR on a semiconductor substrate can be explained by an equivalent circuit model where the ring inductance is described by L the split gap and fringing capacitance are denoted by C the resistor R models the dissipation in the split rings and the resistor Rmodels the dissipation due to the substrate free carrier absorption within the split gap and in the regions in close proximity to the metal lines . See S. Linden et al. Magnetic response of metamaterials at 100 terahertz 306 1351 2004 and H. T. Chen et al. Active terahertz metamaterial devices 444 597 2006 . When the metal lines act as gates the underlying carrier concentration in principle can be changed by the application of an electrical bias affecting thus both Rand C. The resistance Ris inversely proportional to the AC conductivity of the doped semiconductor material due to free carrier losses. See P. Ikonen and S. Tretyakov Determination of generalized permeability function and field energy density in artificial magnetic using the equivalent circuit method 55 92 2007 . The capacitance C is related to the dielectric function of the semiconductor substrate due to the field lines fringing into the material. See L. I. Basilio et al. Equivalent circuit models and optimization of a split ring resonator IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and USNC URSI National Radio Science Meeting 2009 and J. F. O Hara et al. Thin film sensing with planar terahertz metamaterials sensitivity and limitations 16 1786 2008 . The resistance change in Rinfluences the resonance strength while the capacitance change in C shifts the resonance frequency.

For terahertz tunable metamaterials it is critical to choose a semiconductor substrate with the same plasma frequency as the resonance frequency of metamaterial resonator. Therefore in previous tunable metamaterial work with doped GaAs the SRRs were designed to work at terahertz frequencies and the plasma frequency of the doped GaAs substrate matched this designed frequency the resistance change of Rwas the dominant mechanism that modified the resonance. See H. T. Chen et al. Active terahertz metamaterial devices 444 597 2006 . Therefore mainly an amplitude modulation of the resonance was observed but a phase change was also possible.

For the mid infrared tunable metamaterials of the present invention the underlying semiconductor substrate preferably has a large dependence of dielectric function on the carrier concentration and the built in semiconductor plasma resonance set by material properties and carrier density lies below the mid infrared metamaterial operating range. The capacitance change through a change in the real part of the dielectric function becomes the dominant mechanism resulting in a resonance shift instead of an amplitude modulation when the carrier concentration of the semiconductor substrate varies.

The resonance shift is determined by both the metamaterial geometry and the local dielectric environment. In the underlying semiconductor the presence of free carriers can be described by the Drude model 

In order to provide a further tuning upon the application of a voltage it is necessary to deplete this charged layer in an appropriate manner. Schottky contacts are difficult to implement at these doping levels and thus a metal dielectric semiconductor architecture can be used very much like in an MOS transistor.

Various types of resonator elements can be used including ring like structures with one or multiple splits or wire like structures in some connected arrangement such as split ring resonators SRRs cut wire pairs CWPs or fishnet like structures.

As an example of the present invention InSb was used a substrate because it has a large dependence of dielectric function on doping levels thereby enhancing this tuning effect through a change in the dielectric function of the substrate. This effect has been used previously for tunable subwavelength hole arrays photonic crystals etc. See B. S. Passmore et al. Mid infrared doping tunable transmission through subwavelength metal hole array on InSb 17 10223 2009 and W. Zawadski Electron transport phenomenon in small gap semiconductors 23 435 1974 . The exemplary mid infrared tunable metamaterials were based on metallic split ring resonators fabricated on doped InSb. Finite element simulations and measured transmission data showed that the resonance blue shifts when the semiconductor electron carrier concentration was increased while keeping the split ring geometry constant. A resonant wavelength shift of 1.15 m was achieved by varying the carrier concentration of the underlying InSb epilayer from 1 10cmto 2 10cm. Therefore active tuning of metamaterials in the mid infrared can be achieved using metallic metamaterial resonators fabricated on semiconductor substrates having a large dependence of dielectric function on carrier concentration e.g. doped InSb .

The real component of InSb s dielectric function at mid infrared frequencies as a function of carrier concentration is displayed in . This was calculated from published data using the Drude model which includes scattering and measured values for carrier concentration dependent mobility and effective mass. See J. Manzanares Martinez et al. Temperature tuning of two dimensional photonic crystals in the presence of phonons and a plasma of electrons and holes 72 035336 1 2005 and E. Litwin Staszewska et al. The electron mobility and thermoelectric power in InSb at atmosphere and hydrostatic pressures 106 551 1981 . As seen in this figure the real part of InSb s dielectric function decreases as the carrier concentration increases and this trend becomes more significant at longer wavelengths. According to the LC circuit model a decrease of the real component of the substrate s dielectric function will decrease the capacitance and therefore shift the resonance to a higher frequency i.e. a shorter wavelength .

A finite element frequency domain solver was used to simulate the behavior of split ring resonators on InSb substrates with varying carrier concentrations. The substrate comprised a 100 nm n type doped layer grown on a semi insulating InSb wafer. Gold SRRs were scaled from known designs such that the main resonance occurred at 10 m arm length of 660 nm arm width of 130 nm gap of 100 nm and thickness of 80 nm . The computed wavelength dependent dielectric functions of InSb at different doping levels were used for the simulation. For the dielectric function of Au a fitted Drude model based on ellipsometric data measured in the mid infrared regime was used with a plasma frequency of 1.27 10rad s and a collision frequency of 66 THz. A unit cell boundary condition was used to include the coupling effect between split ring resonators and the lattice constant between adjacent resonators was set as 1.34 m.

For the experimental study metamaterial samples were fabricated on four different InSb substrates. One of the substrates a 111 lightly doped InSb wafer without the doped epilayer was chosen as a reference. The other three substrates consisted of a thin n type doped layer grown on the reference wafer by molecular beam epitaxy. The thicknesses of the doped layers in the three substrates were 150 nm 150 nm and 750 nm respectively. The corresponding carrier concentrations of the doped layers were 2 10cm 5 10cm and 2 10cm. The carrier concentrations were determined from doped InSb layers grown on SI GaAs substrates by Hall measurements using the van der Pauw method at room temperature. The split ring resonators were patterned on InSb substrates using standard nanofabrication techniques including electron beam lithography metal deposition and lift off. The metamaterial elements were patterned with a period of 1.34 m to form a planar array of 2 2 mm. The sample was spin coated with polymethylmethacrylate and baked at 170 degree for 30 minutes. The split ring structures were exposed using an electron beam lithography system operating at 100 kV and 1 nA beam current. The dose used for the small structures was around 1000 C cm. Electron beam evaporation was used to deposit 100 and 700 of Ti and Au respectively. Lift off was conducted in an acetone bath. A representative scanning electron microscope image of a split ring resonator is shown in . To minimize the scattering from surface roughness during the transmission measurement the backside of the samples was polished using a grinder polisher.

Transmission spectra of the fabricated metamaterials were measured using a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer. Samples were analyzed at room temperature using a liquid nitrogen cooled mercury cadmium telluride detector. A spectral resolution of 1 cmwas used and the data were averaged over 100 scans. An polarizer was placed in front of the sample so that polarization dependent transmission could be recorded from 0 to 90 degrees in an increment of 15 degrees where e is the intersection angle between incident light polarization direction and the gap of the split ring resonator i.e. 0 degree represents a polarization direction parallel to the gap 90 degree represents a polarization direction orthogonal to the gap . shows the amplitude of the resonance at different intersection angles measured on the sample with a carrier concentration of 5 10cm and reveals that the amplitude of the resonance varies as cos which represents the projection of the excited light intensity in the direction parallel to the gap. Such polarization dependence is consistent with the simulation results as discussed above and is indicative of excitation of the LC resonance of SRRs.

The position of the LC resonance is found to be strongly dependent on the carrier concentration of the semiconductor substrate. shows the normalized transmission spectra of the four metamaterial samples used in this study. Each spectrum was taken with incident light polarization parallel to the gap. A clear blue shift of the transmission peak is seen as the doping level of the InSb substrate is increased. The experimentally observed trend of the metamaterial resonance as a function of substrate doping is consistent with both the LC circuit model analysis as well as the finite element simulation. This trend is plotted in together with the simulation results. As shown the experimentally observed shift is in very good agreement with the results from finite element simulations. The slight difference may be attributed to a number of factors including the varying thickness of the doped layers and an uncertainty in the measured carrier concentrations.

As shown in the carrier concentration can be modified by applying a voltage bias between a metallic Schottky gate connected to the array of resonator elements and an ohmic contact to the semiconductor substrate. A potential concern when using InSb as a substrate is the electron tunneling between gold SRRs and InSb substrate when a high doping level is used. Therefore a metal oxide semiconductor MOS capacitor can be used as the gated device instead of the simple metal semiconductor Schottky contact. is a side view schematic illustration of an electrically tunable metamaterial that uses a gate dielectric between the resonator and the semiconductor substrate . In general the thickness of the dielectric needs to be thin enough such that fields from the metamaterial resonator can still penetrate into the underlying semiconductor material. However even when the gate dielectric is very thin a very small absorption at the frequency of operation i.e. where the metamaterials have their resonances is effectively amplified by the Q of the metamaterial resonator. See D. J. Shelton et al. Effect of thin silicon dioxide layers on the resonant frequency in infrared metamaterials 18 2 1085 2010 . This can have a significant degradation of the Q and thus the performance of such resonances. For example in the thermal infrared HfOcan be used as the gate dielectric since its mid infrared absorption is very low. For shorter infrared wavelengths e.g. less than 7 m SiOcan be used as the gate dielectric. Alternatively heterostructures AlInSb InSb can be used instead of InSb to achieve the gate isolation.

We have also performed theoretical and experimental studies of various implementations of a split ring resonator SRR array formed on an n doped GaAs layer and forming a metal semiconductor junction therewith. provides a schematic cross sectional view of such an array including semi insulating GaAs substrate n GaAs epilayer and AlGaAs insulating barrier layer and gold metamaterial layer which also serves as an electrical gate. Depletion region is also indicated in the figure. It is advantageous to include the barrier layer for reducing leakage current.

The results of our theoretical calculations of the real and imaginary parts of the dielectric constant in n doped GaAs are shown in for selected wavelengths in the range 6 14 m. It will be seen that as the dopant concentration increases beyond a threshold of about 10cm the dielectric constant decreases rapidly. We utilize this effect by providing a dopant concentration near the threshold e.g. a concentration of 5 10cm. Then we apply a negative bias to increase the width of the depletion region thereby producing a relatively large change in the dielectric constant.

For example at the stated dopant concentration we have produced a change in the dielectric constant of about 5.5 at a wavelength of 10 m. As seen in the figure the change becomes even greater for longer wavelengths. It should be noted that as also seen in the figure the imaginary part of the dielectric constant also grows more rapidly with carrier depletion at the longer wavelengths leading to greater optical loss.

An analytical estimate of the depletion width based on a well known theory of metal insulator semiconductor capacitors is

In the preceding expressions is the vacuum dielectric constant 12.9 is the static dielectric constant of GaAs 12.05 is the static dielectric constant of AlGaAs Vis the gate voltage is the flatband voltage i.e. the difference between the work functions of the metal and the GaAs Wis the barrier layer thickness q is the electronic charge and Nis the donor dopant concentration.

To make an exemplary device we grew an undoped GaAs buffer layer and a 700 nm thick n GaAs epilayer donor dopant concentration of 5 10cm on a semi insulating GaAs substrate by molecular beam epitaxy. We then grew a 30 nm undoped Al0.3Ga0.7As barrier layer and a 5 nm GaAs cap layer.

Metal contacts were formed by optical lithography metal deposition and lift off. The outer ohmic contact region was formed by electron beam deposition in the sequence Ge 26 nm Au 54 nm Ni 14 nm Au 150 nm followed by rapid thermal anneal at 380 C. for 30 seconds in argon. The inner gate contact region was then formed by PECVD deposition of a 70 nm silicon dioxide layer to prevent current from flowing through the metal gate and to provide mechanical protection to the barrier layer followed by electron beam deposition in the sequence Ti 10 nm Au 150 nm . The bus lines were used to connect the SRR array see below to the gate contact region.

An SRR array having an active area measuring 1 mm 1 mm was formed by a patterning step using electron beam lithography and by metal deposition in the sequence Ti 5 nm Au 60 nm . Ohmic and metal gate contacts were then wire bonded to a chip carrier.

One example of a unit cell of the SRR is provided in plan view in . The dimensions as indicated in the figure are G 110 nm W 130 nm L 720 nm. The double headed arrow in the figure indicates the orientation of the electric field of the incident polarized light.

We have provided an example of AlGaAs as an insulating barrier material. This material is effective because it has a higher bandgap than the underlying layer of GaAs. However such a material choice is merely exemplary and not limiting. For example oxides such as AlOmay also be effective as barrier materials. However our numerical simulations indicated that the tuning effect i.e. the shift in resonance with applied bias voltage is greater with AlGaAs than with AlO.

We have provided an example of GaAs as an example of the semiconductor material in which the carrier density is to be varied. This choice should be understood as merely illustrative and not limiting. In particular it may be desirable to select semiconductor materials that exhibit greater sensitivity of dielectric constant to changes in the carrier density. Generally this is seen in semiconductors having smaller electron effective mass. InSb for example has an electron effective mass only 21 that of GaAs. For operation at still higher optical frequencies it might be advantageous to employ semiconductor materials with higher carrier densities such as indium tin oxide or aluminum doped zinc oxide.

Another example of a unit cell of the SRR with variations is provided in perspective view in B and C. A repeating array of unit cells of the type shown in is shown in plan view in .

It will be seen that each unit cell includes separated arcs of a split ring and a portion of a bus bar. As will be understood from inspection of the figure this design is asymmetric because the respective arcs are unequal in length. The pattern dimensions are as follows 

Ring diameter 770 nm trace width 150 nm gap size about 470 nm smaller arc 130 larger arc 160 unit cell repeat distance 4 m.

The electric field of incident polarized light is oriented parallel to the gap between the two arcs i.e. parallel to a diameter interposed between the two arcs.

Asymmetric structures such as that described above are of interest because the asymmetry can enhance the device s sensitivity to changes in the electrical permittivity of the substrate. For example V. A. Fedotov et al. Sharp Trapped Mode Resonances in Planar Metamaterials with a Broken Structureal Symmetry . 99 2007 147401 reports an asymmetric SRR structure for use in the microwave range up to 14 GHz using a pair of arcuate metal arms having different lengths so as to resonate at slightly different frequencies. The two metal arms are out of phase within a narrow frequency range and the transmission spectrum has a transparency window due to the destructive interference from the two resonator arms. Because this transparency window is cause by interference from two coupled resonators it can be more sensitive to a substrate refractive index change.

Our asymmetric structure described above is similar to the Fedotov et al. structure but has been adapted for use in electrically tunable mid infrared devices. As such it has been adapted for operation in a much higher frequency range and in our implementations the metal array has the further function of serving as a gate electrode to modify the depletion width. More specifically the depletion width in the underlying n doped semiconductor epilayer changes with the electric gate bias as we have explained above. This induces a change of the permittivity of the substrate and leads to frequency tuning of the metamaterial resonance.

It will be seen that in the structure of both resonator arms are connected to an electrical bus line in the structure of only the smaller arc is connected to the electrical bus line and in the structure of only the larger arc is connected to the electrical bus line.

In each of the three figures it will be seen that there are two resonances situated at wavenumber values of approximately 1000 and 1200 cm. A transparency window appears between the two resonances which we attribute to destructive interference between the two resonances. We refer to this relatively transparent region as a trapped mode . In representing the case in which both resonator arms are connected to the bus line it will be seen that the tuning effect is strongest in the trapped mode region.

We also found that in the implementations in which only one resonator arm is connected to the bus line effects attributable to localized control of the refractive index were observed. That is the tuning behavior depended on which arm was biased.

When reverse bias is applied to a resonator arm the refractive index in the substrate portion underlying that arm increases due to the expanded depletion region leading to a shift in the resonance toward longer wavelengths equivalently lower wavenumbers . When both arms are biased this shift is observed across both resonance regions. However when only one arm is biased our calculations show that the interference condition between the coupled resonators is changed and that such a change is reflected in the spectral behavior. shows that when the smaller arm is biased the transmittance near the lower energy resonance increases as the magnitude of the reverse bias increases. On the other hand shows that when the larger arm is biased the transmittance near the lower energy resonance decreases as the magnitude of the reverse bias increases.

Accordingly it will be understood that when both arms are connected to the biasing circuit as in e.g. the frequency tuning effects resemble those seen in the case of a symmetric metamaterial. But when only one arm is connected as in e.g. or we observe an amplitude modulation effect that is more pronounced than the frequency tuning effect. We therefore believe that the asymmetric metamaterial design is flexible enough to provide as desired frequency tuning amplitude modulation or a combination of both depending on the biasing scheme.

It should also be noted that two separate biasing lines are readily provided so that one electrically connects only the long arcs whereas the other connects only the short arcs. A switch is also readily implemented so that an operator can select among biasing schemes to produce more diverse tuning and or modulation behavior.

It should be noted further that although our examples relate to cases in which there are only two coupled resonators this should not be understood as limiting. Rather more complex structures are readily contemplated in which more than two coupled resonators are employed in order to produce desired changes in the spectral behavior in response to applied bias voltages.

